*  Nor- e  Roue NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
2> __Northam Trunk Route in
Ancient India (300 BC)
J 4;., (Raa Margauryan)
Grand Trunk Road Project
Consolidated Environmental
Northemrn Trunk Routes
in edaealIniaImpact Assessment Report
(1 Sth Century AD)
(Sarak-e-Azm)
E432
___.  . ....................., .t /'' ../.M. v._..................... .L.Volume 2
Northern Trunk Road
19th Century AD
(GT :Road)                         wc,Aa__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~.. ^.wv
t 7                       ';. ~~~~Lea Associate,,SsulI AAiiaPvt..Ltd..
f   s.s     N.e2,i,>Delhi                       5' -E-''n
Road Ne ,< r  twork t £ ,   n tz,  *v
(2007~~~EL A.D.)W



Executive Summaqy: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................1I
11     OVERVIEW  ......1.............. ............                      .......................... ..        1
1.2    THE GRAND TRUNK ROAD PROJECT .............................................................1
1.2.1     proposed improvements .............................................................2
1.3     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS IN THE PROJECT ........................3
1.3.1     World Bank EA Requirements .............................................................4
1.4    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................4
1.5    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT ........................                 ....................................4
1.5.1     Meteorological parameters .............................................................4
Climate                              ......4
1.5.2  NATURAL AND BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT                                             .5
1.5.3  Air Quality ......................... .5
1.5.4     Water- hydrology and drainage ........................,.8
1.5.5  Land .......................                                                                       13
1.5.6  Noise levels ........................                                                              18
1.5.7  Flora ........................                                                                     19
1.5.8 Fauna .24
1.5.9  Cultural Environment / Properties .25
1.5.10 Other Amenities .28
1.5.11 Human Use Values .30
1.6    COMMUNITY CONSULTATION  IN THE PROJECT ...................................................... 35
1.7  CAPACITY BUILDING & IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                            ..  35
1.7.1  Existing institutional arrangements .35
1.7.2  Proposed Institutional Arrangements.                                                              36
1.7.3  Environmental Reporting System .38
1.7.4  Intemalizing Environmental Expertise in the NHAI .39
1.7.5 Operationalisation .39
1.7.6 Training Programme .41
1.7.7  Training Schedule ............                                                                     41
1.7.8 Operationalisation .42
1.8     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLANS                        .............................................. 42
1.8.1  Environmental Monitoring Programme .43
1.8.2  Budget for Environmental components of the Project .43
Lea Associate



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
LIST OF TABLES
Table  1.1: Contract Packages of TNHP  and  GTRP  .........................                                       .............................. 2
Table  1.2:  Mitigation  Measures to  improve  Air Quality .......................................................                                    7
Table  1.3: Water bodies to  be enhanced  along  the  Project Road ............................................... 12
Table  1.4  Noise  Barriers proposed  along  the  Project road ........................................................:.19
Table  1.5: Roadside  plantation  to  be felled  .................                                    ...................................... 20
Table  1.6  Trees to  be  transplanted  along  the  Project Road ....................................................... 20
Table  1.7 Junctions to  be  enhanced  n the  Project Road  .......................................................   21
Table  1.8: Incidental spaces  identified  for enhancement .......................................................                                  21
Table  1.9: Reserved/Protected  Forests along  the  Project Road ................................................. 21
Table  1.10  Protected  Monuments along  the  Project Road .......................................................  25
Table  1.11: Shrines and  other sacred  structures within  Right of Way ......................                                     .................. 27
Table  1.12  Shrines and  Sacred  Structures Affected  by the  Project ............................................ 27
Table  1.13  Cultural Properties to  be enhanced  as part of the  Project .....................                                   ................... 28
Table  1.14: Amenities  and  Community  Resources Affected  by the  Project ................................ 29
Table  1.15  Bus Stops Proposed/Enhanced  along  the  project road  .............................                                    ............... 29
Table  1.16Proposed  Truck  Parking  Lay-bys long  the  Grand  trunk  road .................                                      .................... 29
Table  1.17 Wells/HandPumps to  be  enhanced  as  part of the  project .........................                                     ................ 30
Table  1.18  Training  Schedule  for Different Target Groups ....................................................... 41
Table  1.19  Environmental Budget in the  Project .......................................................                                          43
Lea AsocWats



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1 OVERVIEW
The National Highway-2 (NH-2) connecting Delhi with Calcutta is one of the most important
high-density corridors in the country. The 1400km long NH-2, located in the Upper Gangetic
Plain in northern India, traverses through the states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West
Bengal. The NH2 carries (1998) between 12,000 and 33,0000 passenger car units (PCUs) daily.
A substantial part (48% to 86%) of the traffic is goods traffic. The traffic volume on most of the
sections is expected to grow up to 40,000 PCUs between 2005-2010AD and in some sections
would be as high as 1,25,000 PCUs by 2015 AD. The existing highway is a two-lane
carriageway, with traffic bottlenecks, various highway deficiencies as well as lack of proper
facilities. To cater to the high volume of traffic, there is an urgent need for capacity
augmentation of the highway.
Capacity augmentation of the NH-2 is proposed under the Golden Quadrilateral (6900km
highway joining Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Calcutta) of the National Highway Development
Programme (NHDP) of the Gol. As part of the Delhi-Calcutta section of the Golden
Quadrilateral, the Delhi-Agra section (210km) at the west end, and Barwa Adda - Calcutta
section (278km) at the east end of the NH-2 have already been 4-laned with assistance from the
ADB. For the remaining sections, the following project are proposed:
* The Third National Highway Project (TNHP) involving 4-laning of 8 contract packages
between Agra and Barwa Adda, with WB financing (477km, under implementation);
* The Grand Trunk Road Project (GTRP) involving 4/6-laning of 7 contract packages
between Agra and Barwa Adda (432km), with proposed WB funding;
*  Etawah Bypass 4-laning project (14km) to be implemented with NHAI funding; and,
* Allahabad Bypass 4-laning project (85km) to be taken up in 2001AD with proposed WB
funding.
In addition, Panagarh-Palsit (60km) and Durgapur Expressway (65km) capacity augmentation
and further strengthening projects are planned on the earlier completed section between Barwa
Adda and Calcutta. The Durgapur Expressway project will be implemented in a commercial
(build-operate-transfer) basis.
All the above projects are scheduled to be completed by the last quarter of 2003AD.
1.2 THE GRAND TRUNK ROAD PROJECT
TNHP and GTRP are both located on the Agra-Barwa Adda section of the NH-2. For project
preparation, the Agra-Barwa Adda section was divided into 16 contract packages. The project
preparation (including the environmental and social assessment studies), for the entire length of
the NH-2 between Agra and Dhanbad, has commenced in 1998. Eight of the 16 contract
packages were selected for TNHP, depending on the project preparedness, progress on land
acquisition and utility relocation. Of the remaining eight packages, seven are proposed to be
taken up under the GTRP.
1
Lea Asoites



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Table 1.1: Contract Packages of TNHP and GTRP
Contract  Description                         From        To          Length (km)  Parof Project
Package                                      (chainage)   (Chainage)
I-A      Agra- Shikohabad                     199.660     250.500     50.840      GTRP
I -B     Shikohabad - Etawah Bypass (start)    250.500    307.500     59.020      GTRP
Etawah bypass                        307.500     321.100      13.600      Etawah bypass
I - C    Etawah bypass (end)- Bhognipur       321.100     393.000     72.825      GTRP
11 - A   Sikandra/Bhognipur - Bhaunti         393.000     470.000     61.600      TNHP
If - B   Bhaunti - Fatehpur Border            470.000     38.000      51.330      GTRP
II - c   Fatehpur Border- Khaga               38.000      115.000     77.000      TNHP
III-A    Khaga- Kokhraj                       115.000     158.000     43.000      TNHP
1I1- B   Kokhraj - Paharpur Village           158.000     245.000     87.000      Allahabad Bypass
III- C   Paharpur village -Raja Talab         245.000     317.000     72.000      TNHP
IV-A     Raja Talab - Mohania                 317.000     65.000      76.100       GTRP
IV-B     Mohania-Sasaram bypass              65.000       110.000     45.000      TNHP
IV -C    Sasaram bypass                       110.000     140.000     31.100      GTRP
IV - D    Sone River - Aurangabad             140.000     180.000     40.000      TNHP
V-A      Aurangabad - RaniganI                180.000     240.000     60.000      TNHP
V- B     Raniganj - Barakatha                 240.000     320.000     81.570      GTRP
V -C     Barakatha- Barwa-Ad3 a (Dhanbad)   - 320.000  =  398.750     78.750      TNHP
Total GTRP                                                             422.780
Source: NHAI. 200
This report summarises the EA carried out for the contract packages A, B & C of Package
I, B of Package II, A & C of Package IV and B of Package V.
1.2.1 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS
The existing project highway (between Agra and Dhanbad) has a two-lane (2 x 3.5m)
bituminous carriageway, with paved/unpaved shoulders. It is now proposed to widen this
highway by addition of a new 2-lane carriageway with paved shoulders and strengthening the
existing carriageway by overlays/rehabilitation/reconstruction (including, in places replacing the
existing bituminous pavement by cement concrete rigid pavement). Existing cross-drainage
structures on the highway are proposed to be repaired/rehabilitated. New cross-drainage
structures would be provided on the new 2-lane carriageway.
In addition to strengthening the existing carriageway, the project would improve the geometric
deficiencies including the improvement of the various intersections. The proposed improvement
aims at improving the riding quality, improving journey speed and reducing congestion of traffic
on the highway. It is proposed to provide service roads, proper drainage, grade-separation, road
furniture, utilities and amenities wherever required.
The project highway passes through 4 cities, 19 towns and 253 village settlements. To minimize
the adverse impacts on the various settlements and to minimize the land and structure
acquisition, short bypasses and realignments have been proposed. In all, a total of 12 short
bypasses have been proposed apart from the 20km long bypass at Sasaram have been
proposed for a total length of 73.16km (i.e., 17% of the total length of the project highway).
2
Lea Associaes



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
1.3 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS IN THE
PROJECT
The environmental impact assessment for each of the project packages employed a reiterative
approach in which environmental issues have been identified in successive levels of detail and
specificity at each step in the process. Incorporation of feedback from the various stakeholders
as well as 'public hearings' and analyzing were essential features of this methodology.
The following were the stages of environmental impact assessment of the project
* Preliminary Environmental and Social Screening (PESS): A PESS study of each of
the Consultancy packages had been carried out as part of the feasibility study, to
categorise the corridor into sections based on environmental and social sensitivity, and
to screen significant environmental and social issues that needed to be addressed.
* Documentation of Baseline Conditions: The potentially affected area (PIA) was
defined and the baseline conditions were documented.
*  Assessment of Potential Impacts: Potenbal significant impacts were identified on the
basis of an analytical review of baseline data.
* Integration of Environmental Assessments in the Design Process: The design and
decision-making process integrated environmental and resettlement and rehabilitation
issues and prompted the early identificab'on of appropriate actions, as shifts in
alignments based on awareness of the locations of cultural resources.
•  Assessment of Alternatives: Altematives were continuously assessed throughout the
process. A more formal assessment was also undertaken as a part of the environmental
assessment process, including the assessment of the 'No Action' Alternative.
i Mitigation & Enhancement Measures: Positive actions to not only avoid adverse
impacts, but to capitalize on opportunities to correct environmental degradation or
improve environmental conditions were determined. The mitigation measures would be
directed towards the restoration of the dynamic balance of nature.
* Community Consultation: Consultations with concerned officials, agencies and
potentially affected persons continued through the process and will continue as the
project proceeds. The issues raised by the communities and the various stakeholders
were incorporated, as far as possible, in the design and construction/operation plan of
the project highway.
* Environmental Management Plans (EMP): An EMP for each of the contract packages
detailing the measures to be taken for the implementation of the various measures
proposed. This includes the monitoring plan and gives details of the resources
budgeted and the implementation arrangements.
Being taken up in continuation of the TNHP, the same EA methodology has been adopted for
the GTRP as well. However, As a learning from the experiences from, in addition to the EA
process as adopted for TNHP, a further in-depth study of the following issues has been carried
out as part of the GTRP:
* Addressal of direct and induced impacts on the various environmental components;
* Specific designs for the mitigation measures provided;
* Site specific enhancement designs for elements along the corridor, including cultural
properties, water bodies, bus stops etc;
3
Len obt"s
ASSO



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
* Redevelopment of borrow areas;
* Prediction of impacts due to the project on air I noise, and provision of mitigation
measures;
* Traffic management plans during construction; and
* Monitoring mechanisms and indicators during construction and operation periods.
1.3.1  WORLD BANK EA REQUIREMENTS
This project is a Category A project, because of its cumulative magnitude of environmental and
social impacts, and therefore requires full environmental analysis and assessment. The
emphasis of the World Bank is an integration of the mitigation measures into the project design
and mainstreaming environment in all stages of planning, implementation and operation.
It may also be pertinent to note that while the World Bank requirements now have been
modified and new projects must conform to the OP 4.01, this project was identified and the
individual environmental assessments were prepared within the framework of OD 4.01 only.
1.4 IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
The Grand Trunk Road Project has been initiated and is being carried out by the NHAI,
established as an authority, as a part of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MRTH),
Government of India. The NHAI, through the Chief General Manager (WB) will be responsible
for the effective implementation of the project activities. A General Manager (WB) will assist the
CGM and the Project Directors of the various project packages, Separate NHAI units, Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with a Project Director as its head have been established for each of
these packages. The PlUs would play a key role in implementation including the overall control
of construction activities and implementation of contracts. intemational consultants have been
appointed for carrying out the feasibility study and preparation of the Detailed Project Reports
and designs for the project packages. To ensure the effective implementation of the project,
Construction Supervision Consultants procured under ICBs will support the NHAI.
To assess, advise and monitor the environmental performance of the various projects being
planned, designed and implemented by the NHAI, an Environmental Unit has been established
at the Corporate Office of the NHAI. The Environmental Unit is headed by the General Manager
(Environment), and is assisted by two managers - one each for the Environmental and
Resettlement aspects.  The Environmental Unit is responsible for the co-ordination of the
environmental and social issues of the various project packages and PlUs, and work in close
interaction with the environmental managers at the various PlUs.
1.5 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
1.5.1 METEOROLOGICAL PARAMETERS
CLIMATE
Baseline Scenario
The stretches of the Project Highway (NH-2) taken up as part of the Grand Trunk Road Project
are located in the humid sub-tropical region with marked monsoon effects. The weather
generally remains dry and hot, while in winters cold weather prevails. The summer season is
4
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
usually dry with high temperatures ranging between 300 to 47°C. During rainy seasons the
temperatures vary between 240 to 36°C. Temperature during winter varies between 100 to 260C.
January is coldest month with temperatures dipping to less than 50C.
The project area receives most of its rainfall from the south-western Monsoon and enjoys a
moderate annual rainfall of about 980mm of which over 90% occur during the four rainy months.
The region, on an average records a relative humidity of 64%.
Potential Impacts
By and large, though no change in the macro-climatic setting is envisaged, the microclimate is
likely to be temporarily modified by vegetation removal, decrease in surface water bodies and.
the addition of increased pavement surface. Negative impacts on microclimate may be long
term, but can be reversible if appropriate mitigation measures are adopted. The negative
impacts would be mainly restricted to the areas adjacent to the road.
Mitigation Measures
The project has proposed replacement of trees felled in the ratio of 1:2,ie 2 new trees to be
planted for every tree cut In addition, as part of the engineering design, additional measures
such as turfing of embankments and landscaping of the entire project road have been proposed
which shall minimise the adverse impacts on microclimate. Also transplantation of trees (shifting
trees from existing location to new locations outside the Col) is another measure to minimize
cutting of healthy grown trees, which provide shade and other benefits and help control the
microclimate along the roadside.
Enhancement Measures
A detailed landscape plan has been prepared for the project road, which proposed plantation of
suitable trees based on location in the available space in the RoW. This shall more than restore
the microclimate along the road to its baseline situation.
1.5.2 NATURAL AND BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
1.5.3 AIR QUALITY
Baseline Scenario
The monitoring of the ambient air quality (AAQ) for the various land uses along the project
corridor was carried out along the first row of potential receptors (approximately at 1 5m from the
edge of existing pavement), so as to establish the baseline concentrations.
A comparison of the baseline levels with the respective standards for the various locations,
reveal that the gaseous pollutants (CO, NO, and SO2) are all within the permissible limits. The
SPM levels exceed the permissible limits of 200 ug/m3, at major urban locations, and significant
higher levels have been observed in urban areas such as Agra in Package I and Rama devi
Crossing, Kanpur in Package II. The Carbon monoxide (a significant pollutant from the exhaust
of petrol driven vehicles) levels, is observed to be below 114.5 mg/im3 (or 0.1 ppm), at a
distance of 15 m from the edge of the pavement. Air bome - Pb, a major pollutant from petrol
driven vehicles is also well below  the detectable limits of 1.0 mgiM3 limit for highest
concentration in rural and residential areas, as most of the vehicles on the corridor are diesel
5
Lea Associats



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
driven, but for the urban locations. Even at these locations, air borne lead is of not great
significance and the concentrations are well within the permissible limits.
Air Quality in the Taj Trapezium: Part of the Package IA and IB from km 199.6 to km 255
passes through the Taj Trapezium'. A total area of 10,400 square kilometers covering parts of
Rajasthan and Uftar Pradesh in the shape of a Trapezium (Refer Plate 5-3) has been identified
as the zone of influence for the protection of Taj Mahal from pollution sources especially Air
Pollution.
The maximum-recorded SPM value (241.8 ug/m3) in the Taj Trapezium was at Firozabad, which
is far above the permissible SPM  value of 100 ug/m3 for sensitive areas. All the locations
monitored in the Taj Trapezium exceeded the permissible limit for SPM. The SPM value in the.
reserved forest area was found to be 148 ug/m3. This indicated the loss of quality in the forest
environs and introduction of anthropogenic activities in the forest The CO, NOx and Pb levels
were within the permissible standard limits at all locations. The RPM values exceed at all but
one location and were in the range of 75-141 ug/m3.The S02 levels were found to be in the
range of 6 ug/m3 - 1 3.7ug/m3 well within the permissible standard for S02 in sensitive areas.
Potential Impacts
During the construction stage, Increase in the concentration of air pollutants is likely during the
construction stage, especially from the hot-mix plants and the batching plants. As the project involves
limited bituminous construction, this impact has been minimized. During the construction period, temporary
impacts include generation of odour from construction activities as well as from the construction camps.
*  Dust is likely to be generated due to the various construction activities inclu,ding:
-  Site clearance and use of heavy vehicles and machinery etc.
•  Procurement and transport of raw materials and quarries to construction sites
*  Stone crushing operations in the crushers
*  Handling and storage of aggregates in the asphalt plants
*  Concrete batching plants
*  In the asphalt plants due to mixing of aggregates with bitumen.
To assess the likely impacts on the Ambient Air Quality in the operation stage due to the project, the
prediction of pollutant concentrations along the corridor has been carried out using CALINE-4. Highway,
predicted traffic volumes likely and the surrounding land uses. The predicted pollution levels have been
plotted to a distance of 100m on either side of the corridor and the pollution concentration contours for
each of the pollutants worked out.
' The region is home for over forty Protected monuments, three of which are listed as World Heritage Site (WHS)
namely the Taj Mahal, Agra fort and Fatepur Sikri. The major centers covered under the Trapezium are:
•  Mathura and Vrindavan towards its northwest corner;
*  Firozabad at its south east corner;
*  Kaldeo National Park, Bharatpur in the west direction; and
*  Agra as the epicentre of the area.
6
Lea Associates



Executive Summary. Environmental ImpactAssessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
From the predicted concentrations, it is observed that maximum concentration of pollutants occur with in a
distance of 25 to 45m from the centerline of the proposed alignment. The results indicate that the SPM
concentrations exceed the permissible limits. Package IA is located within the Taj Trapezium, within which
the standards for sensitive areas apply. The concentrations of the gaseous pollutants and SPM in the Taj
Trapezium shall exceed the permissible limits by 2014.
Along the other project packages, the concentrations are exceeded in the major urban areas and
intersections. The predicted AAQ concentrations also exceed the permissible limits within the Gautam
Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary in Package VB.
Mitigation Measures
At critical sections especially along the congested stretches of the existing highway, removal of.
bottlenecks and  relieving congestion in built-up stretches were incorporated through improved
design and improving road geometry and widening of road to smoothen traffic flow. Bypassing
settlements and consequent elimination of the slow moving local traffic, like Sasaram in IV C,
will ensure smooth flow of traffic and reduce emission of pollutants. The following table xxxx
shows the mitigation measures adopted during the design stage to minimize air pollution and
improve air quality.
Table 1.2: Mitigation Measures to improve Air Quality
Package  I Chainage (Km.)                Location                      Suggested Avoidance/ Mitigation measure
IA          200.635                     Agra Intersection              Flyover is proposed .
206.000                     Forest area                    The stretch realigned to the south.
216.300                     Etmadpur                      Area is bypassed
v  232.000                       Raja Ka Tal                 1 Bypass on North
1 238.000-243.000             Firozabad                   I camageway is elevated.
IB          271.000 -273.000            Sirsaganj                      Area being bypassed
272.000                     Intersection in sirsagani      Bypass proposed
2130.000-282.000            Ukhrend Village                Bypass proposed
301.800                     Jaswant Nagar                  Segregatbon of local from through traffic
IC          325.000 -326.500            Sarai Ekdil                    The congested stretch realigned
| 337.000-340. 00             Bakewar                       The area is to be bypassed.
353.000 -357.500            Sarai Ajitmal                 The village is bypassed on the southem side of
the existing highway.
lB          474.000 -476.000            Industnal area near LPG        Segregation of the through traffic through
bottling plant                provision of truck layby
493.000                     Ramadevi crossing              Realignment from Km 92.050 on the existing
l_________  ________________________                        bypass  to  Km   92.800
_________    15.000 .17 000  Rooma Village                Being bypassed.
IVA      ] O39.000 -4.500               Saidraza                      This stretch is bypassed.
45.200 -46.900              Naubatpur                      This stretch is bypassed.
'vc                                     Intersection of Gaya Road with   The area is bypassed
GT Road
110.000 -131.000            Sasaram Urban area - A       . The urban area is bypassed.
.  congested Urban area
119.000 -127.000            crushers outside Sasaram      Area is being bypassed.
VB          251.300                     Hot mix plant within the       Control of emissions from the hot mix plant.
sanctuary
281.800                     Intersection of NH-2 with NH-33   The area is bypassed.
& Barhi Urban area
305.000 -307.000            Barkatha                       Segregation of local traffic
The asphalt plants, crushers and the batching plants will be sited at least 1 km in the downwind
direction from the nearest human settlement. All precautions to reduce the level of dust
emissions from the hot mix plants, crushers and batching plants will be taken up. The hot mix
plant will be fitted with dust extraction units. To control emissions from the stack, an adequate
cyclone/scrubber will need to be provided in the event of the emissions exceeding the SPCB
norms.
A vehicle management schedule prepared by the contractor and approved by the Supervision
consultant shall be adhered to. Water will be sprayed in the lime/cement and earth mixing sites,
asphalt mixing site and temporary service and access roads. After compacting the earthwork,
7
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
water will be sprayed on regularly to prevent dust. To avoid dust emissions likely to result from
transporting crushed rock and earth, the vehicles delivering construction material will be
covered.
The concentrations of ambient air quality parameters obtained using Caline 4 indicate that along
most packages, the concentrations of the pollutants of concern will exceed the limits for
residential areas, at least within 25 m of the centerline of the road. However, pollution resistant
species, which can grow in high pollutant concentrations or even absorb pollutants, can be
planted in the first row. Broad-leaf species can help settle particulates with their higher surface
areas along with thick foliage, which can reduce the distance for which particulates are carried
from the road itself.
Air Quality in the Taj Trapezium: The following pollution resistant species are
recommended for plantation along the project road traversing through the Taj Trapezium:
Terminalia arjuna (Arjun), Cassio fistula (Amaltas), Ficus religiosa (Peepal), Ficus bengalensis
(Banyan), Syzygium cumini (Jamun), Tamarindus indica (Imli), Polyalthia longifolia (Asok),
Terminalia tomentosa (Saja), Azadirachta indica (Neem), Bombax ceiba (Seemul), Alsetonea
scholaris (Chatim), Spathodea campanulata (Spathodea), Terminalia catappa (Kathbadam),
Pterocarpus acerifolius (Redwood) and Putranjiba roxburghii (Putranjiba).
1.5.4 WATER - HYDROLOGY AND DRAINAGE
Water Resources
Baseline scenario
Drainage Channels: The project corridor falls and traverses across the Ganga drainage
system which comprises of the Ganga as the main stream and its tributaries viz. Yamuna,
Ramganga, Gomati, Sarda, Rapti, Gandak, Kosi and Sone. The Ganga, Yamuna and Sone, are
all part of the Himalayan Drainage system, having their source in glaciers and hence perennial.
Ground Water: With in the Ganga Yamuna Duab, ground water is found in the confined and
unconfined zones and the water table varies between 2 - 9m. Ground water level in Package II
varies from 4m to 20m in June. Ground water level at Raja Talab (km315) was observed to be
4m in winter and 5.5m in summer. The ground water levels in Package IV (km. 317-65-km 1 10-
140) are mostly at depths of 6m to 8m except around Sasaram, where it is at a depth of 20 m.
Water Bodies: There are 53 stagnant water resources including ponds located along the NH-
2.  Most of them  are located in or alongside the RoW  and are being used by the local
community for washing /bathing purposes. These surface water bodies can be subject to
adverse impacts due to the various construction activities as well as during the operation stage
of the project.A few of these waterbodies are historically and culturally important. Significant
among these are Budiya Ka Tal (km216), Raja Ka Tal (km234), ponds at km246, km343,
km350, km362 (Package I), Baghai Pokhra at km 42.000 (Package IV) and the Tilaiya reservoir
in Package V B.
Water Quality: The baseline water quality monitoring carried out at the 17 locations, as part of
the consolidation/verification exercise indicates that concentrations of major physico-chemical
parameters along the entire NH-2 covered under the Grand Trunk Road Project is within limits
set by the Bureau of Indian Standards for drinking water and surface water quality for bathing.
8
Lea Assocates



Executive Summary. Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Microbiological characterstics of water are, however, of concern. All surface water bodies show
bacterial presence and most of the samples also show faecal coliform presence thereby
indicating contamination by human discharges. This makes water from these sources unsuitable
for use without treatment. The groundwater quality is satisfactory and all parameters of interest
are within the specified limits.
Potential Impacts
The following impacts are likely to occur along these flowing water resources where new cross-
drainage structures are to be constructed
Modifications to flow: Due to the massive engineering works the river's waterway will have to.
be diverted. The waterway will be constricted, increasing velocity downstream of the bridge.
This will mean increased sediment load with the flow. The additional two lanes, which is
essentially a paved impervious surface, will cause increased surface runoff along the roadsides
to the tune of 3444453 cu.m
Impairment to Water Quality: Increased load of light, difficult to settle, sediment will make
the water more turbid. Large, heavy sediment, particularly with slow moving water (like in the
Sone), may smother algae and eventually alter the nature of the sub-stratum. The
contamination of the ground water resources due to the project are likely at the following
locations: along construction sites, camps involving moving of construction equipments and
machinery. at the various community water bodies and sources of water supply as hand pumps
etc. and along the entire length of the corridor especially around urban areas and productive
lands
Water Quality: The short-term increase in runoff during the construction stage may also occur
due to the removal of trees, vegetative cover and compaction of the surrounding soil. The
construction activities around the surface bodies can affect the water quality due to the disposal
of solid and liquid wastes from labour camps, fuel and lubricant spills or leaks from construction
vehicles, fuel storage and distribution sites and from bitumen or asphalt storage at hot-mix
plants. The spoil heaps around the construction sites are also prone to erosion and contribute to
the increased sediment load in the near-by water bodies. The major parameter of concern
would be the sediment load from the spoils.
The major pollutants of concern are suspended solids, oil and grease, lead and other heavy
metals. Concentration of suspended solids is likely to be highest during the construction stage
and immediately after the construction when vegetation has not been fully established on the
embankment slopes.Oil and grease form a film on the water surface and hinder the transfer of
oxygen into water.Though the compounds of lead are suspected to be carcinogenic, it is unlikely
that lead pollution to have significant effects as 90 95% of lead in run-off is inert, and will be
further diluted in the receiving water bodies, where the lead concentrations are minimal.
Water Logging: The primary cause of water logging at certain stretches along the
road is due to previous borrowing operations. During rains, these borrow areas get
filled up and remains water logged due to inadequate local drainage. Places like
Firozabad and Shikohabad (in Package I), Jagdishsarai (km 28), Chandauli (km 31)
in Package IV A are level with or below the surrounding terrain and are prone to get
inundated.
9
Lea Associates
CMo



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Depletion of Water Source: The quantum of water to be used for road construction will be
around 1300 m31d (of which 75-80% will be used for road marking, 20% for drinking and
domestic purposes, 1% for dust suppression, and the remainder for other uses) for the entire
project, peaking to about 1500 m3/d. The huge demand shall be met through availability of
ample supply both from surface sources (3 major rivers: Yamuna, Ganga and Sone) and ground
water (with water table varying from 4-8 m).
The project requirement of 1500 m3/d works out to only 0.07% of the total flow in the major
rivers. Thus, even by this comparison, it is apparent that the water requirement for the project
will not be a major impact on the environment
Loss of Water bodies/Ground Water sources: Many water bodies shall be partially filled up.
due to the proposed widening. A total of 190 wells and 548 hand pumps shall be relocated due
to the project. Relocation of these water resources have been worked out in consultation with
the community, and all community resources impacted due to the project will be relocated at
suitable locations. The typical designs and details of the relocation of the hand pumps and the
protection measures for the various categories of wells need to be worked out to minimise the
impacts during both the construction and operation stages of the project.
Flood Hazard: All the rivers of the Himalayan Drainage system are north south flowing
perennial rivers, causing frequent flooding and shift in course as they reach the lower reaches of
the catchment area. Man-made inundation problems occur mostly at the built-up stretches due
to rising of shoulders/kerbs by the local residents. Some parts of Agra, Kanpur, and Varanasi in
UP are prone to flooding whereas in Bihar the stretch where the road intercepts the Tilaiya Tank
is prone to flooding.
Mitigation Measures
Protection of Banks and edges: Road run-off is let off into natural drains of
adequate capacity from ditches at the end of formation to prevent destabilization of
the embankment. Release of road run-off directly from the ditches can erode edges
of the water body into which the run-off is let off. To ensure that run-off does not
damage the water body it enters, cascading for scour protection has been proposed.
Cascade for Scour Protection: Letting off run-off directly could cause the scouring of
the bed of thedrain. Cascade arrangement allows dissipation of the energy of the
run-off and traps some sediment within the spaces between adjacent bricks. Brick
trays, each 1 brick thick, are used to break the momentum of the flowing water and
the brick weirs allow uniform flow into the natural drain. The last of the weirs
(made out of 1:4:8 P.C.C.) is so constructed that the final tray lies 500 mm below
the water surface
Silt Fencing: Silt fencing will be provided to prevent sediments from the construction site
entering into the nearby watercourses. The silt fencing consists of geotextile (MIRAFI 140N or
equal) with extremely small size supported by a wire-mesh mounted on a panel made up of
angle frame. The frame will be installed at the edge of the water body along which construction
is in progress. The wire-mesh will provide structural stability and the 25x25x3 mm angle section
will act as posts for the silt fencing.
10
Lea Asoucates



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Sedimentation Chamber: Excessive sediment loads are expected from road run off as it is
discharged into the environment. To remove the sediment, a small sedimentation chamber at
the end of ditches before discharging into the watercourse has been proposed. The entry into
the chamber will be through a bar screen which can take care of large floating debris, if it finds
its way into the run-off.
Oil interceptor: Oil and Grease from road run-off is another major concern during construction
as well as operation. During construction, discharge of Oil and Grease is most likely from
vehicle parking areas of the contractors' camps. On the other hand, during the operation stage,
the discharge can be from anywhere along the entire road stretch. Thus, the source is diffused
and virtually unrestricted. In either case, the technique for the separation of oil and water is the
same: gravity separation. Enough detention time is provided to run-off to allow oil to float on to
the surface.
Siting of Activities: The location of all fuel storage and vehicle cleaning area will be at least
300 m from the nearest drain/ water body. In addition, the maintenance and repairs of vehicles
will be carried out in a manner such that contamination of water bodies and drainage channels
can be avoided. The slopes of embankments leading to water bodies will be modified and re
channelised to prevent entry of contaminants into the water body.
Cross Drainage Structures: Though during construction period, drainage alteration and
downstream erosion/ siltation is anticipated, due to the improved design and added capacity of
the cross-drainage structures, there should be an improvement in the drainage characteristics of
the surrounding area.
Raising the road level has been proposed to avoid future inundation in the inundated stretches
along the corridor. Along the settlements, as part of the engineering design, provision has been
made for drainage along the sides of road. These drains will be properly maintained by the
NHAI as part of its corridor management plan. To ensure efficient cross-drainage and to prevent
water logging along the sides, adequate size and number of cross-drainage structures have
been provided.
Recharging pit for roadside drain in urban areas: In urban areas too, the run-off in
roadside ditches needs to be disposed of. Provision has been made for urban recharging pits
along stretches where the road passes through large urban areas. These vertical drains serve
two purposes: they dispose of unwanted run-off and encourage recharging of underground
water resources. The drains have gravel columns and geosynthetic filter fabric at about 2 m
depth from the top of the bores and to prevent the transportation of contaminants into the
aquifer. The drains will be provided at the beginning and the end of each settlement and near
the outfall to a natural drain if the highway crosses one inside a settlement.
It should be pointed out that all the devices being suggested require periodic maintenance and
cleaning to operate at their design capacity.
Relocation of Water Supply Sources: As part of the design, all sources of community water
supply will be replaced as near to the existing source as practicable, after consultation with the
local community. A major benefit of the arrangements worked out for the GTRP is the
prevention of stagnant pools of water around wells and hand pumps which not only are a likely
breeding ground for vectors but also cause of dirt, especially in the silty soils through which the
NH-2 passes. The various arrangements worked out to prevent the adverse impact on the
existing well structures or to enhance the existing ones are described below.
11
Lea Assocates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Enhancement Measures
Hand pumps to be relocated: All replaced hand pumps will be provided with a proper apron
and drainage arrangement for the safe disposal of water. For hand pumps located within the
RoW or very close to it will include a flat apron and drain into the roadside ditch. The length of
the drain has been limited to 3 m and the width of the P.C.C. bed inside the drain will depend on
the width of the discharging area.
Defining space for Improved usage: Based on the existing use of the well or tube well the
use level and activities supported by the water source have been evaluated. For e.g., if washing
clothes is one of the activities being conducted at a particular well, the enhancement shall
provide a washing platform as part of the enhancement/. Similarly small seating space has been
proposed at specific locations to enhance the social use of the spot. Additional paved space
provided shall facilitate better use of the space by the community.
Plantation: The community Wells, tube wells etc are not only significant community gathering
spots but also provide water to weary travellers. At locations where it is feasible to plant trees
the project has proposed the plantation of shade and fruit trees. Tree bases (chabutaras) built
around these trees shall not only provide seating space but also enrich the quality of the spaces
for the local and the road user.
Road construction activities can lead to increased run-off both during the construction and
operation stages. During the construction stage, the removal of vegetation and compaction of
soil can lead to increased run-off. Similarly, the area of open ground lost to the pavement
increases the run-off from the open ground.
Enhancement Measure
Water Bodies to be Enhanced: Enhancements to water bodies include strengthening of
embankments of the water bodies, improving water quality and catchment characteristics,
creating informal spaces around the water body, parking facilities and other site specific
enhancements. Based on the significance and use values of the water bodies along the project
road, water bodies have been identified for enhancement along the project road. Following
Table 1-3 lists the package wise water bodies identified for enhancement.
Table 1.3: Water bodies to be enhanced along the Project Road
S.No     Package                    Water Bodies to be Enhanced
I        IA                          3
2        lB                         4
3        IC                          3
4        IIB                         1
5        IVA                         11
6        IVC                         Nil
7        VB                          1
1.5.5
12
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand TnJnk Road Project
1.5.6 LAND
Physiography
Baseline Scenario
The project road traverses through the great Indo-Gangetic Plains (altitude below 300m)
confined by the northern mountains on the east, north, and west and peninsular plateaux on the
south. The Ganga plain is divided into the Ganga -Yamuna Doab, the Rohilkhand Plain to the
north of the Ganga-Yamuna doab, Avadh plain covering eastem half of Uttar Pradesh and
Bihar plain further to the east.
Packages I and 11 of the highway between passes between the plains of the River Ganga and
Yamuna. Package IlIl falls in the lower Ganga-Yamuna Doab, while Package IV is located in the
Trans-Ganga Region, both of which are also flat plains. Package IV is part of the flat flood plain
of the Ganga and Sone rivers. The highway in Package V-A falls in the Hazaribagh plateau,
which is a gentle rolling terrain. The last stretch of the project highway (Package V-C) falls in the
Chhota Nagpur Plateau.
Potential Impact
The proposed project would have no measurable impact on the topography of the project
region. No significant cutting has been designed in this project, and impact on topography has
been absolutely minimized. Moreover the waste material from the existing pavement is
proposed to be used in the filling to raise the proposed road level.
Geology and Seismicity
Baseline Scenario
The region through which the project highway passes is structurally a part of the Ganga plain,
which has been formed by the in filling of the Indo-Ganga trough during the Pleistocene period.
It has an alluvial cover of 400-1500mm deep.
Potential Impact
The entire stretch of the project highway traverses through seismic zone ill as defined by the
Indian Standard (IS) 1893-1994 seismic zoning classification system, i.e., a zone of relative
stability. The project does not have any impact on the geological or seismic stability of the area.
Soils
Baseline Scenario
The soils of the great ganga plains are alluvial soils formed through the process of deposition of
sand,silt,clay etc in layers and are formed along river courses and low lying tracts. The soils
along the project packages are capable of producing high yields, largely due to the rich soil
nutrients deposited by the Ganga and Yamuna Rivers and their tributaries.
Majority of the soils sampled along the NH-2 for the Grand Trunk Road project are neutral to
slightly alkaline. Texturally, they are classified as silty or silty loams and hence soil expansion is
not a concern.
13
Lea Assocoles



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Soil Quality:
Baseline Scenario
Soil quality assessment was conducted especially for evaluating heavy metal contamination
with respect to Lead (Pb), Chromium (Cr) and Cadmium (Cd). Lead (Pb), usually the heavy
metal of concern from automobile exhaust was recorded below 0.001% (or 1 ppm) - the limit set
by the U.S. EPA for concentration in soil.
Potential Impact
Loss of Productive Soil: The entire corridor lies in a fertile agricultural belt, the adjoining land
use is predominantly agricultural. This loss of topsoil, especially in the irrigated areas, can be a
long-term residual impact. Though this is a genuine concern, the benefits of realignment in
terms of increased flows, safety and improvement in ambient air quality in settlements avoided
will compensate at least in part for the loss to the economy as a whole
Soil erosion: As the profile of the road is being raised (about 1m above the mean maximum
flood levels), erosion of the pavement embankment, if the side slopes are not properly
designed, will be an issue on most part of the project road. Erosion potential exists mostly at
high embankment areas of the road, especially at bridge-approaches and at certain isolated
patches on Package V (km233-243). Once the trees are removed during pre construction stage
and the ground cover is cleared on the expanding side (mostly limited to one side of the existing
carriageway) for the widening, the problem due to erosion could increase
Soil Quality: Contamination of soil can take place in sites wherein construction vehicles are
parked and serviced due to leakage or spillage of fuel and lubricants. Pollution of soil can also
occur due to leakage or spillage of asphalt and bitumen and around hot-mix plants, refuse and
solid waste generated from labour camps or due to accidental vehicles spills. As the proposed
project enables smooth traffic-flow and removes traffic bottlenecks, it is expected that the impact
on soil quality, overall, will be beneficial.
Mitigation Measures
Minimising Land Acquisition: Land acquisition has been minimised in the proposed project,
especially along the stretches with pre-dominant agricultural land utilisation. Though the impact
on the productive soil is unavoidable, adequate measures have been worked out for minimising
the loss of soil, as by the storing of topsoil to be laid back after the construction period etc.
Reinforced Earth Walls: The project would improve the erosion situation by developing all the
road embankments at a slope of 1:2. All high embankments along the bridges and ROBs are
provided with reinforced earth walls. Gravity retum walls will be provided on all bridges to
encase the whole embankment, replacing the existing cantilever return walls, and therefore
reducing the probability of erosion.
Turfing of Slopes: Incorporating appropriate type of treatments of slopes has reduced the
potential for erosion of high embankments and bridge fills. The soil is assumed to have an angle
of repose corresponding to 1V: 2H. Slope protection is normally required only for slopes steeper
than this. The side slopes gentler than this will be turfed with shrubs and grasses as per
recommendations for the treatment of embankment slopes for erosion control, IRC: 56-1974.
14
Lea Assoc*ates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Brick Pitching on Slopes: If slope protection is to be provided for slopes gentler than 1:2,
brick pitching will be adopted. The advantage of this arrangement is that it allows the growth of
vegetation in the empty spaces created on the face of the slope, while providing better
retention.. A kerbstone and gabion box arrangement will be provided at the bottom, in case the
slope is abutting a water body.
Stone Pitching: If the slope is steeper than 1:2, stone pitching will be carried out. Stones will
be fixed on slopes by gentle hammering. A P.C.C. anchor will be provided which will prevent
sliding of stones on slope. The gaps between adjacent stones allow grass to grow which will
hold the soil firmly together.
Gabion Protection: Gabion structures will be provided in case the slope ends into a water
body. These structures are made up of wire mesh baskets and boulders. The utility of this
structure lies in void ratio of its boulders and strength of the mesh to keep them in place. This
structure also provides the opportunity or natural soil to get infiltrated and fill up the voids. The
voids in the structure retain water for longer time thus assisting vegetation to grow. This
structure will be used on edges of ponds, lakes or water bodies where slope protection is
required
Quarries and Crushers
Baseline Scenario
Existing quarries that are already in operation with the required environmental clearances have
been recommended for this project, and no new quarries have been proposed. In the absence
of suitable quarries and quarry materials in the vicinity of the project highway stretch between
Agra and Kanpur (package I and 11), it has been proposed that the required quantity of
aggregate can be obtained from Jhansi and Kabrai. Both these locations have numerous
quarries, already operational and are major sources of construction material. Quarry sites for
Package II and I have been identified at seven locations. Along Package IV, stone quarries
have been identified at four locations with lead varying from 1.3km to 17 km. Two moorum
quarries have also been identified for the package IV. For Package V, 4 quarry sites have been
identified with haul distances varying between 27km to 49km.
Potential Impact
The excavation of quarres and borrow pits used for obtaining rocks, soil and aggregate
materials for road construction can cause direct and indirect long -term adverse impacts on the
environment. Though the quarry materals are to be transported over long distances to the
construction sites, almost all the quarries identified have proper access roads, therefore, no
major impacts during the hauling of materials is envisaged.
As no new Quarry needs to be opened for this project (majority of the material being generated
from cut operations within the site itself), therefore, no new impacts are likely to arise due to
quarrying operations
Impact due to Crushers within the Gautam Buddha Wild Life Sanctuary: The baseline
survey reported hot mix plants and crushers in full operation within the buffer area of the Wild
Life Sanctuary.No impact during the operation stage is likely, as all illegal quarrying operations
shall be stopped within the forest area
15
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Mitigation Measures
To ensure that quarrying operations do not have an indiscriminate impact on the environment
the material shall be procured only from licensed quarries and which have proper quarry
redevelopment plans in place, to be adapted once the quarrying operations are over.
Borrow Areas
Baseline Scenario
As the profile of the road is being raised (about 1m above the mean maximum flood levels), significant
borrowing of earth is required for the embankment fill material, and for the construction of the pavement. A
total of 195,93,500 cu.m of earth is required for the project. The soils to be used, as sub-grade, select
sub-grade and shoulder materials need to be hauled from designated borrow areas.
A total of 118 borrows pits have been located along the vicinity of NH2.The above identified borrow areas
can be categorized into the 3 following:
* Barren Areas (or areas which are not cultivable)
*  Areas where the owners are willing to create ponds, or fishponds, and
Agricultural areas where the existing level of ground is higher than the surrounding and
the owners want these parcels of land to be lowered to facilitate irrigation.
Borrowing in the Wild Life Sanctuary: As the baseline reports, some private borrow pits have
been identified in the Gautam Buddha Wild Life sanctuary. These activities are contributing to
habitat fragmentation and discontinuity of the wildlife corridors within the sanctuary. The project
needs to ensure that quarrying and borrowing operations are not carried out in the sanctuary,
nor should the project encourage or facilitate road construction through use of the crushing units
and borrow areas located in the buffer are of the sanctuary. In fact, the project needs to initiate
the task of rehabilitating these activities outside the buffer area of the sanctuary.
Potential Impacts
As the borrowing is to be carried out in accordance to the guidelines laid out in IRC-1 0-1 961, no
major adverse impacts are anticipated. Also, productive agricultural areas have been avoided
for borrowing. However the borrow area pits, if not treated properly after the borrowing is
complete, can form stagnant pools and pose health hazards to prevent which redevelopment of
borrow areas need to be worked out. At borrow area locations where the owners are willing to
create ponds for fisheries etc, proper protection measures for the drainage of the surrounding
land and slope protection measures need to be worked out.
However, cartage of the borrow materials to the construction sites can be of significance, as
almost all such areas are accessible through dirt tracks only and therefore, spillage and
compaction of soil along these tracks will be a significant impact. Proper protection measures
need to be worked out for the minimizing of such impacts during the haulage of borrow
materials.
Mitigation Measures
The borrow areas selection and recommendations for borrow areas for use in the GTRP have
been based on environmental as well as civil engineering considerations. In packages IV A&C
and package VB, the local people themselves have suggested to borrow off their land either to
level off their high agricultural land or develop or deepen their ponds for pisciculture
16
Lea Assocates



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand rrunk Road Project
Non-Cultivable lands Borrowing of earth will be carried out to a depth of 1.0 m. The borrowing
of earth shall not be done continuously the slope of the edges shall be maintained at not more
than 1:4. Ridges of not less than 8m shall be left at intervals not exceeding 300 m, small drains
,,,shall be cut through the ridges, if necessary, to facilitate drainage.
Productive lands: Borrowing of earth shall not be carried out on productive lands. However, in
the event of borrowing from productive lands or at the contractor has to obtain the prior
permission of the SC. At such locations, the depth of borrow pits shall not exceed 45 cm and if
may be dug out to a depth of not more than 30 cm after stripping the 15 cm top soil aside.
Elevated lands: At locations where private owners desire their fields to be levelled, the
borrowing shall be done to a depth of 1 m or up to the level of surrounding fields.
Fish Ponds: At locations, where the private owners (or in some cases, the community) desire
to develop lands (mostly low-lying areas) for pisciculture purposes and for use as flshponds.
Borrow Areas near Settlements: Borrow pit location shall be located at least 0.8 km from
villages and seKtlements. If unavoidable, they should not be dug for more than 30 cm and should
be drained.
Enhancement Measures
Redevelopment of Borrow Areas: To avoid any embankment slippages, the borrow areas
will not be dug continuously, and the size and shape of borrow pits will be decided by the
Supervision Consultant. The borrow pits will be redeveloped by filling and providing 150 mm
thick layer of preserved top-soil; by creating a pond for fisheries, etc; or by leveling an elevated,
raised earth mound and covering it with 150mm thick preserved top-soil. Replantation of trees
along the edges of borrow areas will be carried out
Use of Fly Ash as Fill Material
Baseline Scenario
There are seven thermal power plants in the states of UP and Bihar, within a distance of 100 km
from the corridor (Obra, Harduaganj, Panki, Auraiya, Rihand in UKtar Pradesh and Patratu,
Barauni, Muzaffarpur in Bihar). Disposal of fly ash at these various plant locations is a
significant issue. One of the large-scale uses identified for fly ash is its utilisation as fill material
in road embankments. Different forms of fly ash, such as pond ash, bottom ash, etc have found
application as construction material in roads, either as compacted material or as stablised
material, the most common stabilising additives being lime and cement.
It is noteworthy that the performance of all these embankments has been excellent, with no
settlements or other signs of distress. Pavements on these embankments have also shown
better performance than those on compacted soil fills. This can be attributed to the higher shear
strength and deformation modulus of compacted fly ash, compared to that of compacted soil.
Potential Impact
Although fly ash is an excellent fill material, it has adverse health impacts as well. Therefore,
extreme care should be taken during handling and transportation of this material. Fly ash being
a very fine material gets air borne easily and causes dust nuisance.
17
Lea Assoc*ats



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Although fly ash is likely to create adverse impacts during pre construction and construction No
adverse impact from Fly ash is envisaged during the operation phase, as it will remain within the
embankment in a compacted form and topped by layer of soil. Further, adequate turfing shall
prevent any release of fly ash in the environment.
Mitigation Measures
Fly ash shall be transported to site in gunny bags and the vehicles should be covered with
tarpaulin etc to minimize fly ash dust being generated. The surface of the fly ash stockpile shall
be covered with tarpaulins or a thin layer of soil or other granular material not subject to dusting.
Traffic movements shall be restricted to those areas which are kept moist, to prevent tyres of
passing vehicles dispersing ash into the air. Traffic movements should be restricted to those
areas which are kept moist, to prevent tyres of passing vehicles dispersing ash into the air.
1.5.7 NOISE LEVELS
Baseline Scenario
Barring a few exceptions, the nighttime noise levels were lower than the corresponding daytime
measures. A variation of as much as 15 dB (A) to as little as none was observed at the
monitoring locations between the day and nighttime noise levels. The monitoring shows
package IA and IIB has the highest noise levels. The junction near the road connecting Kanpur
at km485 (Naubasta crossing) recorded the highest noise levels at one location. But, the rest of
the corridor had much lower noise levels. The contribution of other activities due to proximity to
the urban area of Kanpur is also evident from a difference of as much as 15 dBA between the
day time and night noise levels. It is worth noting that even the L90 (night) levels recorded at
Naubasta crossing are higher than the noise levels allowed in residential areas during day time.
At all locations, the Lgo (night) levels are close to the allowable noise levels durng daytime for
residential areas. Overall the noise levels ranged between 50 dBA and 88 d BA
Noise in the Gautam Buddha WildLife Sanctuary: Noise levels along the package V B have
a special significance since it passes through Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary between km
242 and 260. Very high noise levels (up to 83 dB(A)) are predicted for Chainage 252 to 260 km.
Potential Impacts
Due to the various construction activities, there will -be temporary noise impacts in the
immediate vicinity of the project corridor. The construction activities will include the excavation
for foundations and grading of the site and the construction of structures and facilities. Crushing
plants, asphalt production plants, movement of heavy vehicles, loading, transportation and
unloading of construction materials produces significant noise during construction stage.
However, these increased noise levels will prevail only for a short duration during the pre
construction and construction stage.
Noise is a major area of concern, especially since a number of sensitive receptors (schools and
colleges, hospitals) have been identified to be quite close to the road all along the GTRP.
Mitigation Measures
Enforcement Measures: Noise standards will be strictly enforced for all vehicles,
plants, equipment, and construction machinery. All construction equipment used for an
8-hour shift will conform to a standard of less that 9OdB(A). If required, machinery
18
Lea Assocates
C7:1



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
producing high noise as concrete mixers, generators etc, shall be provided with noise
shields.
* Workers to wear earplugs, helmets and be engaged in diversified activities to prevent
prolonged exposure to noise levels of more than 90dB(A) per 8 hour shift.
* Construction sites shall not be located 300 m from settlement areas. No hot mix,
batching and aggregate crushing plants shall be located within 200m of sensitive land
uses as schools, hospitals etc.
Noise Barriers: The shielding of the noise from the highway has resulted in design of barriers
for the attenuation for the entire length of the settlements. Either the sound waves can be
controlled near the source or the receptor can be shielded. Since safety of road using vehicles.
is of paramount importance, a specific clear distance needs to be maintained from the
pavement. Hence, the only viable option is to provide a shield around the receptor.
The noise attenuation has been worked out by the adoption of the following types of noise
barriers
* Physical barriers in the form of walls, screens etc.
* Structural modifications at the receptor locations, in the form of provision of double-
glazing etc.
*  Rearrangement of the sensitive locations, through changes in the intemal planning
where possible
* Earthern berrns between the highway and the receptor and,
* Vegetative barriers in the form of thick screen of vegetation etc.
Noise barriers have been designed and proposed at sensitive locations schools, and hospitals
The following table lists the package wise locations the no of noise barriers proposed
Table 1.4 Noise Barriers proposed along the Project road
S.No      Package               No of noise Barriers Proposed
1         IA                    2
2         IB                    2
3         IC                    1
4          IB                  1
5         [VA                   4
6          Ivc
7         VB
1.5.8 FLORA
Roadside plantations
Baseline Scenario
The total number of trees existing on the RoW (or within 30m on either side of the existing road
centre line) is 48416 (21,977 in Package I, 6972 in Package II, 16384 in Package IV and 3083
in Package V).
19
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand lTrunk Road Pro/ect
Potential Impacts
The cutting of trees shall have manifold impact Most visible impact is the loss of shade.Also,
there is a possibility of the local people being deprived of tree products, such as wood, fruits,
leaves etc. Removal of roadside tress will reduce comfort levels for slow moving traffic and
pedestrians.
The felling of these roadside trees may lead to temporary increase in erosion (erosion will be
controlled once construction occur at the area of trees cut). Marginal impact would also arise
with respect to air quality and ambient noise, as trees attenuate air pollutants and noise at
varying degrees. The following table lists the trees, which shall be felled in the project
Table 1.5: Roadside plantation to be felled
Package        Number of trees to be felled
IA              7.900
IB             6455
IC              7622
11 B            6972
IVA             15200
Ivc             887
V B             3083
Total           48119
Mitigation Measures
Tree felling has been minimised and a large number of the trees (46 to 61% among different
packages) were saved by design modification.
Tree Transplantation: Tree transplantation is a keynote of this project to save healthy and
significant trees, which would otherwise be felled due to the proposed four laning. Following
Table gives the no of trees, which shall be transplanted in the project. The following table lists
the no of trees to be transplanted package wise
Table 1.6 Trees to be transplanted along the Project Road
S,No         Package                    No of Trees to be Transplanted
1          [A                           592
2           IB                          475
3            IC                         1726
4            lIB                        nil
5            IVA                        458
6            IVC                        100
7            VB                         260
Total                      818
Enhancement Measures
Road Landscape Plan: The road landscape has been developed envisaging a holistic
approach to the entire stretch. A concept has been evolved so as to maintain visual
characteristics and uniformity in terms of landscape along the stretch. To achieve this, the entire
stretch of the project corridor has been divided into homogenous landscape sections based on
similarity in terms of soil conditions, climate (temperature and rainfall) and topography.
On the basis of these geo-climatic and local conditions, the GTRP stretch has been divided into
3 major homogenous zones with 13 sub-divisions presented in the following table. These
20
Lea Asoes



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
sections were further divided into 48 sub-sections based on the adjacent land-use of rural or
urban stretches. The landscape plan includes preparation of a detailed section wise and land
use wise plan
Enhancement of Junctions: As parts of the road landscape plan all the major and minor road
junctions are proposed to be enhanced. Typical enhancement drawings have been prepared
for
*  Cross roads
*  T Junctions
* Y Junctions
* And Traffic Islands
The following table highlights the no of major and minor junctions identified for enhancement.
Table 1.7 Junctions to be enhanced n the Project Road
S.No       Package       Major Junctions    Minor Junc0ons
I          LA            4              7
2          lB            3               7
3          IC            14              2
4          IIB           5               6
5          IVA           5               29
6          ivc           4               16
7          VB            6               10
Enhancement of Incidental Spaces: As the new two-lane pavement to be added to the
existing road has been proposed either on the north or south side many incidental or irregular
spaces have been created along the NH2 especially at curves, at start and end of bypasses etc.
The project has identified some of these spaces and prepared landscape and enhancement
plans for these spaces to enhance the visual quality of these spaces along the project road.
Table 1.8: Incidental spaces identified for enhancement
S. No.   Package  No of Incidental spaces
1       1A               2
2  |     B               2
3       Ivc              4
4       V-B              6
Protected Forest / Reserved forest areas
Due to intense agricultural activities in the region, natural forests have long been removed
except in some parts in Bihar. However, plantations of orchards and groves of Mango, Guava,
and Banana and Mahua are there in some of the stretches. The following table lists the forest
areas through which the proposed alignment passes.
Table 1.9: Reserved/Protected Forests along the Project Road
Package      Chainage            Forest/Sanctuary         Remarks
IA           204-206             Reserve Forest          The corridor cuts across the Reserved
forest
IC           380                 National Chambal Sactuary   5km from the project corridor near to Auriya
ivc          Sasaram Bypass      Kaimur Hills             The proposed alignment cuts across the
Reserved forest
VB           242-260             Gautam Budha Sanctuary    The corridor cuts across the Sanctuary
21
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Tn.nk Road Project
289.2-290.4        Lakhsudi PF             Open Sal,Mixed Forest
294.3-295          Lakhsudi PF             Mainly Sal,Clear mixed jungle
296.0-296.8        Nagar Barsot PF         Mainly Sal,Clear mixed jungle
297.4298.5         Nagar Barsot PF(south)  Mainly Sal,Clear mixed jungle
Banatha PF(north)
314.0-315.2        Gorhar PF               Mainly Sal,Clear mixed jungle
319-320            Near Dharguli PF        Mainly Sal,Clear mixed jungle
Source: Indivtdual EIA Reports, - Packages 1,11, IV and V, GTRP
The Agra Reserved Forest
Baseline Scenario
Between Km 204 to km206 of Package IA cuts across the Agra Reserved Forest.
This is a degraded area and no wildlife has been reported apart from monkeys.
This problem is exacerbated by the lack of infrastructure for the collection and disposal of
domestic solid waste in Agra city. Since there is no policing on the NH-2, there is rampant
disposal within this stretch.
This reserve forest is used as garbage dumping site (at km204.1 to km204.5).  Moreover,
slaughterhouse waste is also dumped along the road in a private plot at km 242.150 on north of
the road. Similarly, in Package IIB in Kanpur, garbage was observed dumped on either sides of
the road
Potential Impact
The 2 km stretch between km 204 and 206 in Agra is being used as a dumping ground for the
wastes from the city. Though the alignment has been routed to minimise forestland acquisition,
the acquisition of 0.5 ha of forestland has been unavoidable. The acquisition of forestland is
being taken up in accordance to the Forest (Conservation) Act. As the forest is already
degraded with city garbage being dumped within the forest and illegal felling of trees, no further
adverse impacts to the forest is anticipated.  As part of the project, necessary corrective
measures have been worked out to stop garbage dumping within the forest area.
Mitigation Measures
To prevent any further dumping of the municipal waste within the RoW that has been proposed
or along the adjoining forestland, mitigation designs have been worked out of the construction of
a barrier to prevent garbage-dumping vehicles to empty their contents from the highway.
Near 251 km Chainage approximately 100m south of the existing NH-2, which acts as the sink
for the run-off in the area. It lies on a ridge and increasing its depth will provide the increased
capacity needed for tiding over the hot summer months.
The Kaimur Hills Reserved forest
Baseline Scenario
The forests along the proposed alignment of the Sasaram bypass near km 311 are part of the
Kaimur hills forest.  These have been reduced from  dry deciduous to shrub land by the
presence of humans and a road leading to the temple of the locally popular goddess
Tarachandi. The shops that line the approach to the temple complex have been the source of
22
Lea AssociarW



Executive Summary. Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
human influence. In addition, the hill on the southern side of Sasaram, the large settlement
being bypassed is being cut away by quarrying, very little of which is legal, for rock. The
labourers, who do the drilling and cutting are housed in camps near the settlement of
Tarachandi in the forest, close to the proposed alignment. The total stretch of 200 or so meters,
which is theoretically under forests, appears little different from the settlements that dot
highways around the country.
Potential Impact
Improved access through the forest will mean that the illegal quarries will have better roads to
brng in new equipment and bring out the material for sale. The proposed road may actually be
built with material from these quarries. The project documents will specify that the contractor
shall use material only from licensed quarries to avert the use of such environmentally
degrading operations. More stringent measures from Bihar State Pollution Control Board would
be far more effective in actually improving the situation on the ground than the proposal by the
project to avoid use of unauthorized quarries.
Mitigation Measures
The Environment Management Plan has proposed in addition to compensatory afforestation in
the area measures such as regular policing and patrolling by the NHAI authorities to prevent
unwarranted intrusion in forest areas.
The Gautam Buddha Wild Life Sanctuary
Baseline Scenario
The highway passes through the buffer area of the sanctuary2 and has been operational for the
last 400 years. The sanctuary was originally the property of Maharaja of Tekari till 1948, after
which, it was converted to the Protected Forest category vide the Forest Act, 1772.
Subsequently, owing to growing anxieties to save the Tiger Population of the country, the
sanctuary, which is also habitat for many tigers, was declared as sanctuary in 1976 under the
Wildlife Protection act, 1972. As per the State Wild Life Sanctuary map, 400m on either side of
the highway has been demarcated as the buffer zone.
Potential Impact
The major threat to the flora in the sanctuary area comes from deforestation for fuel,
overgrazing by cattle owned by people living within the sanctuary area, militant-illegal traders
nexus and fire rather than from the road construction activity itself. The road construction
activity itself will not have a further impact on the already degrades status of the sanctuary.
However, the project needs to ensure that allied activities such as location of construction
camps, setting up of stockyard, hot mix plants etc are not carried out in the sanctuary.
As the four laning within the sanctuary is proposed to be concentric and no land is to be
acquired for the road construction, therefore, it can be safely concluded that no adverse impact
to the flora of the sanctuary is envisaged.
2    The area under the highway is not, and has never been considered a part of the forest
area. Due to existence of the road, areas on either side are treated as buffer areas.
23
Lea Assocls



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Unless appropriate measures are taken to curb access into the sanctuary the issues such as illegal tree
felling, man made forest fires, and other anthropogenic activities shall prevail and contribute to the
degradation of the natural forest.
Mitigation Measures
Strip Plantation: The GTRP envisages the plantation of Sal trees in strips 25 m wide at
locations identified by the Forest Department. In addition to these strip plantations, 2000
saplings within the sanctuary area shall be planted as part of the project.
1.5.9  FAUNA
Baseline Scenario
Domesticated animals constitute the major proportion of faunal density in the area surrounding
the project highway. No endangered or rare species has been reported in the area. The
baseline study included identification of faunal species native to the study area especially with
reference to the RoW and adjoining areas.
National Chambal Sanctuary:
Baseline Scenario:
A national crocodile (ganal) sanctuary has been declared in January 1979 to include about
500km length of the River Chambal covering portions in states of U.P., Rajasthan, and Madhya
Pradesh. Fishing has been totally banned in this sanctuary and forest staff has been posted for
enforcement of Protection of Wild Life. The boundary of the sanctuary is about 5 km from
Auriya (Package I).
Potential Impact
As the sanctuary is located more than 5 kms from the project road no impact
Gautam Buddha Wild Ufe Sanctuary:
Baseline Scenario
Domesticated animals dominate fauna species all along the project road except in the Gautam
Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary. Aquatic birds are relatively very less in the project area and no
endangered species of avian fauna has been recorded in the influence zone of the proposed
project.
The presence of endangered fauna, especially the tiger, in the area was a major driving force in
the declaration of the sanctuary. The other important species of fauna include the wolf, the
leopard, hyena, jackal, spotted deer, sambhar, barking deer, Chinkara and Nilgai. In addition,
the langur and Rufous-tailed hare have also been recorded. The elephant herds from Palamau
forest migrate to the sanctuary between December and June. Other species recorded in the
area are Sloth bear, Bengal fox, Leopard cat, Civets, Mongooses, Giant squirrel, Bats, Shrews
etc. A number of bird species have been recorded within the sanctuary. It has 20 species of
reptiles including lizards, python and snakes like Russel's viper.
24
Lea Asociates



Executive Summery: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Potential Impact
The envisaged impacts during operation stage are disturbance to local fauna and cattle of the
surrounding areas due to noise generated by vehicles. In addition, there is also likelihood of
accidental deaths of cattle crossing the road. At no of locations near rural areas cattle were
observed crossing the road. Due to improved road geometric design and capacity the speeds
shall increase increasing the possibility of accidents with animals grazing nearby the road
Mitigation Measures
General measures such as prevention of hunting have been recommended and enforcement of
regular patrolling during construction and operation stage (as part of corridor management plan
during operation stage) has been proposed. The following measures to prevent any impacts on I
disruption to fauna within the sanctuary have been provided within the Gautam Buddha Wildlife
Sanctuary:
Check Dams: The sanctuary management plan envisages the construction of Check dams
along rivers Haraia (km 242.95), Chenari (km 246.8), Mohane (248.2), Chordaha (249.85),
Dhanua (251.75). The construction of these check dams shall improve the water situation within
the sanctuary. NHAI shall bear 25% of the costs if the construction of these checkdams is
completed before 2003 AD (Envisaged target for completion of GTRP).
Wildlife Crossings: Two slab culverts will be improved to create 6m wide underpasses for
animals' at km 254.473 and km256.811
Waterholes: In addition, the EMP suggests the creation of two new ponds at sites identified by
the District Forest Officer, not necessarily near the alignment of NH-2.
1.5.10 CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT IPROPERTIES
Archaeological/Protected Monuments and other Cultural properties
Baseline Scenario
The project highway traverses through a number of settlements and is often dotted with
religious and cultural properties most of which though not of archaeological significance are
nevertheless, significant to the community.
Many important cultural and histoncal settlements lie along the highway. Of significant mention
are the cities of Agra, Varanasi Allahabad, Sarnath and Gaya etc. In addition the road is dotted
with places of archaeological interest with history as old as the road itself. The following Table
lists the archaeological monuments and significant culturall historical locations that exist in the
study area of the proposed project.
Table 1.10 Protected Monuments along the Project Road
Package     Chainage    Place          Remarks
IA                      Budiya Ka Tal   a notified archaeological structure located in a
water body(Protected Monument)
IA                                     AramBAgh
IVC         117         Tomb of Sher   Situated at about 1 km from the project
Shah Suri      highway at Sasaram.(Protected Monument)
25
Lea AssocSaes



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Potential Impacts
Of all the protected monuments only Budiya ka taal is located on the edge of RoW of the Project
road. There is no adverse physical impact on the protected monument.All other monuments are
located outside the direct impact zone of the project road.The Tomb of Sher Shah Suri is about
I km from the project road In addition ,due to proposal of the sasaram bypass the monument
shall remain unaffected by the increased traffic volume, as all the through traffic shall be
diverted from the town.
No negative adverse impact is envisaged o any archaeological and protected monument.
The Taj Trapezium
Baseline Scenario
The Taj Trapezium warrants significant mention in the project. The region houses for over 40
protected monuments, three of which are listed as World Heritage Site (WHS) namely the Taj
Mahal, Agra fort and Fatepur Sikri and a fourth World Heritage site, the bird sanctuary at
Bharatpur National Park. Akbars tomb in Sikandra and itmad-ud-Daula's tomb have been
proposed for World Heritage site designation. In addition, there are more than 40 protected
monuments within the trapezium.
The major centers covered under the Trapezium are Mathura and Vrindavan towards its
northwest comer; Frozabad at its south east comer, Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur in the
west direction; and Agra as the epicentre of the area. Firozabad, which is on the project road,
lies in the southeast comer of the Taj Trapezium.
Potential Impacts
The Taj Mahal is more than 15 km from the project road although 55 kms of the project road lies
in the Taj Trapezium zone. As the proposed project involves improvement of road geometrics
and quality of the pavement the air quality impacts shall be improved during the operation stage
as compared to the air quality which would have been in case the road were not fourlaned.
Mitigation Measures
Although no impact is envisaged all along the project road in the Taj Trapezium pollution
resistant trees (especially resistant to So2) shall be planted to absorb sulphur emission from the
project road.The project has also included acquisition of 1Om strip of land on either sides of the
road in Package I for tree plantation to counter the impacts of air pollution.
Shrines and Sacred Structures
Baseline Scenario
These structures, though are not of any significance at the regional level, do have a significant
importance to the local communities. Most of these structures have come up within and
adjacent to the existing. The following table summarises cultural properties that have been
identified along the project highway.
26
Lea Associats



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Table 1.11: Shrines and other sacred structures within Right of Way
Package    Temples   Mosque   Gurudwara  Shrine        Church    Total
IA     36        5         0             16        0         57
lB     28        2         0             12        2         44
IC     8         0         1             0         0         9
lB    17         0        0             9          0         26
IVA    35         0        0             0          0         35
IVO    2          0        0             1          0         3
VB     26         7        0             3         0          36
Total   152        14       1             41        2          210
Source: EIA Consultants and LASA Field Survey
Potential Impacts
Shrines and Sacred Structures will be subjected to varying degree of impact depending upon
their placement in the RoW. Structures, which are close to the proposed CW, are likely to need
relocation. One of the adverse impacts of the road rehabilitation project on the cultural property
located along the road edge is increased risk of damage to the property due to likely vehicular
collision during the operation stage
Table 1.12 Shrines and Sacred Structures Affected by the Project
Resource                             Package                       Total
IA     IB    IC    IIB   IVA   IVC    VB
Temple/Mosque/Church  |   -   14     25      22     15     2      26     112
Shrnes           19    14    40        -      -                    73
Graves          25      16     13                    -      -      54
Source: Individual EIA Reports, - Packages I, II, IV and V, GTRP and LASA Field Survey, October 2000
Mitigation Measures
Various mitigation measures have been adopted to minimize the impacts on cultural properties
within the RoW.
Retaining walls: have been proposed at locations where the cultural property has been found
to be be located within the proposed embankment
Diversion of Ditch: has been resorted to where the property in question has been found to be
located in the proposed road ditch. In these cases either the ditch shall be taken around the
property or a pipe culvert has been proposed to ensure continuity of the ditch below the location
of the cultural property.
Safety: Measures such as defining the use boundaries of the cultural property, putting up
railings or hazard markers towards the road side are some of the measures to increase safety of
users of these places.
Relocation: Relocation of cultural properties has been resorted to only as a last option. The
relocation shall be in full conformity with the wishes of the community and cost of relocation
shall be borne by the project.. The new place of establishment of the property shall be identified
through the community consultation process.
27
Lea Assouites



Executive Summary Envtronmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Enhancement Measures
Along the project road a total of 107 shrines and sacred structures have been identified for
enhancement. These properties have been found to be significant to the community during the
course of the baseline survey.
Improving, defining, and redefining access and the precincts: Depending upon site-
specific situations the project strives to improve the access to these properties by providing
walkway to the property from the highway. Locally available materials like stone and bricks have
been preferred for paving. CC flooring also has been adopted for ground treatment. Effort has
been made to create interesting ground surfaces by using different paving pattems and
materials as can be seen in the sketch. The intention is to enrich the roadside places.
Creating seating spaces: Areas have been developed especially around/adjacent to cultural
properties where there is easy availability of space and drinking water. The utility of these rest-
spaces increase when created in conjunction with cultural properties.
Plantation: Trees not only enrich the visual quality of a space but also act as functional buffer
screens to counter pollution, define areas and provide shade. Plantation of trees has been a
prime enhancement as well as mitigation measure in the project. Tree bases have been
proposed around existing as well as proposed shade trees to form informal seating spaces,
which are evidently preferred to the formal seating spaces.
The following table highlights the package wise nos of cultural properties to be enhanced.
Table 1.13 Cultural Properties to be enhanced as part of the Project
S.No    Package    j Temple    Shrines    MosquestDarga  Gurudwara   Religious
l       |          |         | h                       Centre/Ashram
4     1 rIC     117         1                           1 l        o
5     jIVA       131         1       16                         3
7      vc         317                               _      _A   1
85        3 _       14        41 1           4
1.5.11 OTHER AMENITIES
Baseline Scenario
There are number of amenities and utility services located along the highway like schools, Dhaba,
hospitals, etc. Of these, schools and hospitals are important community facilities. A large number of
schools are located within close proximity of the highway.
There are number of amenities and utility services located along the highway like schools,
Dhaba, hospitals, Petrol Pumps, Bus Stops etc. The location of these amenities along the
National Highway is an issue of concern as the haphazard siting of these amenities is
contributing to congestion of the highway.
28
Lea Associafts



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Potential Impacts
Table 1.14: Amenities and Community Resources Affected by the Project
Resource                            Package                      Total
IA    lB    IC  IlB   IVA   IVC    VB
SchoolCollege      24     6      7       1     7      3      4      52
Hospitals/ PHCs     3      5      6      -      -      -     -       14
Office Building    -      -      -      -      6         -           6
Source: EIA Reports, Package I to V, Grand Trunk Road Project.
Enhancement Measures
Bus Stops: The baseline survey identified location along the project road which are being used
formally or informally as bus stops.These locations have been reviewed and locations for
construction of new bus stop structures have been finalized. A total of 182 bus stops have been
propose along the project road.The following Table 1-15 lists the no of bus stops proposed
along the project road.
Table 1.15 Bus Stops Proposed/Enhanced along the project road
S.No          Package           Bus   Stops   on  Bus Stops on South
North
1             IA                                     11
2             lB                4                    4
3             IC                2                    2
4              lIB              5                    5
5             IVA               42                   42
6             IVC               18                   18
7             VB               T9                    9
Truck Laybys: Following locations along the GT Road have been provided with truck parking
laybys to prevent unauthorized parking of trucks on the project road. The locations have been
identified on basis detailed primary surveys and site observations.
Table 1.16Proposed Truck Parking Lay-bys long the Grand trunk road
s. Nc.     Package       Location         Type of Junction
1        203.400         IA                 North
2         246.1          IA                 South
3        257.450         lB                 North
4        269.600         IB                 South
5        290.500         lB                 North
6        297.050         IB                 North
7        303.500         IB               North/South
Wells/Hand Pumps: A total of 32 community resources including wells and tube wells shall be
enhanced as part of the project. The enhancement comprises of providing apron and proper
drainage at these locations. Also plantation of trees for shade and provision of facilities such as
29
Lea Associts



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
washing platforms and seating at these locations has been proposed. The enhancements have
been done on basis of the location of these resources in the ROW
* Category A-Well shaft/Hand Pump within the proposed embankment
* Category B-Well shaft/ Hand pump adjoining/in the proposed ditch
* Category C-Well shaft/Hand Pump away from the Corridor of Impact
Table 1.17 Wells/HandPumps to be enhanced as part of the project.
S.No          Package          Wells                  Hand Pumps
1             IA               1                      58
2             IB               16                     60
3             IC               7
4             IIB
5             IVA              26                     6
6           1 IVC
8             VB
1.5.12 HUMAN USE VALUES
Land Use and Land Speculation
Baseline Scenario
The Great Gangetic plains constitutes the most fertile agricultural belt from Punjab to Calcutta is
predominantly under agricultural land use. The state of UP has over more than half of its area
under agriculture. Project area falls in the Gangetic plains and constitutes a major chunk of the
irrigated arable land of the fertile
Potential Impact
The development that the improved road will bring with it will induce a chain reaction towards
change in land use. Change in land use will be sparked off as a result of land speculation. The
road, which is flanked by agricultural fields, will witness ovemight selling of these lands for the
prices that they will fetch. Industrialisation of fringe areas of cities is also a possible impact of a
road development scheme. The availability of cheap labour and easy access to markets in the
city will make roadside areas quite an incentive for the industrialist. Reduced transportation
costs and availability of high-class transportation facilities for raw materials and products will be
the most important advantage of the improved road. The mushrooming of industrial areas on
roadside will mean that the use of whatever infrastructure facilities that may be available will
preferentially go to the 'deep pockets' of the industry. This will further strain these almost non-
existent services. In addition, in case of polluting industries, the environment will directly suffer
if control measures are not in place.
The total land required for the proposed four-laning and up gradation of the project corridor is
479.971 ha out of which 457.560 ha will be acquired from private holdings and the rest 22.411
ha will be transferred from government and forestlands.
30
Lea Associas



Executive Summary. Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Mitigation Measures
Provision of Retaining Walls: Wherever it is imperative that the land adjacent to the road be
used as little as possible for construction, providing retaining walls to the embankment can
reduce the width of the formation. Such conditions are frequently encountered in urban areas or
where it is decided not to encroach into a water body. Various retaining walls are available to
minimize the land-take for highway construction.
Induced/Ribbon Development
Baseline Scenario
The improved access after the completion of the project has the potential to induce land use
changes along the corridor and can result in the conversion of the existing agricultural lands to
other beneficial uses.
Potential Impacts
The development of a road scheme will lead to extension of urban areas especially at the ends
of cities through which the road passes. The improved transportation facility provides the
linkages that will allow much better access to previously difficult to reach markets (for buyers
and sellers). This would mean not only the people from congested areas in cities will want to
move to the fringe, but also, people from near by rural areas would migrate to the city.
Extrapolations of areal growth of urban and rural settlements will ultimate into distinct urban and
rural stretches along the corridor. On the basis of above established hierarchies, entire corridor
may be divided into following stretches:
*  Km 199.660 - km 284.050, where the highest order settlement is Agra, it is envisaged
that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Agra.
*  Km 284.050 - km 350.750, where the nearest highest order settlement is Etawah, it is
envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Etawah-
*  Km 350.750 - km 393.000, where the highest order settlement is Aurraiya, it is
envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Aurraiya.
*  Km 470.00 - km 38.000, where the highest order settlement is Kanpur, Kanpur is also
the highest order settlement along the project corridor by the virtue of its heavy
industrialization. It is envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be
towards Kanpur.
*  Km 317.000 - km 65.000, where the highest order settlement is Varanasi, it is
envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Varanasi.
*  Km 110.000 - km 140.000, where the nearby highest order settlement is Aurangabad, it
is envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Aurangabad.
*  Km 240.000 - km 320.000, where the nearby highest order settlement is Dhanbad, it is
envisaged that the sprawl of the dependent settlements will be towards Dhanbad.
Wherever new Bypass is proposed the growth will take place all along the access road towards NH2 and
at the start and end of the Bypass.
31
Lea Associates



Executive Summmary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Tnrnk Road Project
Mitigation Measures
The entire corridor will acquire a pattern of urban and rural stretches. At certain stretches the
concentration, density and level of urbanisation will be much higher due to the overlapping and
amalgamation of two to three settlements over time. All along the Corridor length the urban and
rural stretches have been identified. Within the urban seKtlements the areas with highest, high,
medium and low concentrations have been filtered and accordingly suggested appropriate
treatment to avoid further and future ribbon development. These stretches have been divided
into different Policy Zones. These Policy Zones have been evolved according to the following
criteria:
*  Type and level of interaction with the nearest settlement;
*  Density of the area; and
*  Amount of overlap of the seKtlement sprawl.
The Policy Zones are as under:
Policy Zone I - Metro and Urban: Where the major settlement is a Metro. These cities
continue to grow areally as per their past trends. At the same time they tend to depict a Metro
and Urban interaction type of relationship, engulfing any lower order settlement at its periphery.
This Policy Zone is likely to depict more and more a metro character with its areal extent
increasing rapidly followed by a much larger influence than any other zone. It may expenence
industrial, institutional, business houses and real estate development.
Policy Zone I/ - Metro and Rural:Where the major settlement is again a metro, here the
abutting rural settlement depicts a strong dependence for its livelihood on the Metro and in tum
Metro also interacts with for its informal services. With time these rural settlements may become
a part of the Metro region only. It may experience the development of daily needs services.
Policy Zone Ill - Urban and Urban: Where interaction occurs between two similar order urban
settlements. These settlements depict the Urban Agglomeration type of a scenario, where the
two settlements are dependent upon each other. This zone depicts a continuity of urban
character with higher attraction factors and growth prospects. It may experience establishment
of institutions, medical facilities entertainment parks and real estate.
Policy Zone IV - Urban and Rural: Where any rural settlement is dependent on the nearest
higher order (urban) settlement or any higher order settlement (urban) interacts with a lower
order settlement. This zone depicts an urban core with rural peripheries tailing towards either
the sides. It may experience establishment of schools, religious building, real estate and
entrepreneur commercial setups catering the road users.
Policy Zone V - Rural and Rural: Where two or more rural settlements are interacting and are
dependent on each other. This zone is likely to experience more encroachment in future,
because of the socio-economic character of its rural contiguity. It may experience development
of small commercial establishments catering to the road users as well as local community.
Distribution of the stretches in different Policy Zones is given in the Table 9.10 below.
32
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Table 9.10: Distribution of Stretches in Policy Zones.
Policy zone I      Policy zone 11     Policy zone III      Policy zone IV      Policy zone V
Agra               Ruma               Etmnadpur            Raja ka Tal         Bawali
Kanpur             Said Bypass        Tundla               Alinagar Khenjra    Rudhawali
Varanasi           Naubatpur          Firozabad            Asfabad             Murlidhar
Didkhili           Shikohabad          Muharnedpur          Ukhrend
Sirsanganj          Naushera            Mithepur
Etawah              Chirauli            Dhulpur
Mahewa              Janatpur            Jaswant nagar
Sarai Ajitnal       Khwapaphul          Pilkhar
Muradganj           Barwadi             Phoopai
Sasaram             Chauparan           Ekdil
Dehn on Son         Rasoia               Mania Mau
Barhi               Bijauli
Baradih             Durgapur
Barsot              Bhikewar
Jhurjhun            Ujhiani
Barakatha
Human Health
Baseline Scenario
Inhabitants of urban areas mostly complain about the increase in respiratory and waterborne
illness such as asthma, recurrence of cold and cough. Occurrence of Water bome diseases was
observed in localities using river water.
Potential Impacts
The proposed project would have both beneficial and adverse impacts on the human health.
The pollutants generated during construction period will have adverse impact on the health of
workers and nearby habitation area. However, this is temporary in nature. The project through
construction worker may induce some new vector borne diseases among the local communities,
which is not in the area at the movement. During the operation period, increasing traffic may
add more pollutants to air and noise. In spite of these, the project may bring positive impact on
the human health if proper mitigation measures are taken.
Mitigation
At every workplace, good, and sufficient water supply will be maintained to avoid
waterborne/water-related and water-based diseases and to secure the health of workers.
Adequate drainage, sanitation and waste disposal will be provided at workplaces. Preventive
medical care will be provided to workers.
The Environment Management Action Plan includes a reporting system, which shall keep track
of the health and hygiene conditions at workers camps including precautions taken to prevent
33
Lea AssocJats



Executive Summafy: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
Road Safety
Baseline Scenario:
Pedestrians, cyclists, animals, herdsmen as well as bullock carts, vehicles carrying hazardous
goods and other motorized and/or heavy vehicles use the project highway. These combinations
create hazardous conditions for all the road users. Poor pavement structure and lack of
warning/informatory signs and incidental parking especially in urban stretches seem to be the
reasons for accidents on the road.
Potential Impacts
During the construction stage, dismantling of structure, cutting trees, haulage material
obstructing vision, spillage of lubricants on road generally cause road accidents. Similarly, in
operation stage, the increase in speed would tend to increase the severity of accidents.
However, the number of accidents will be much lesser compared to the 'no-project" scenario as
the project would provide medians, improve the road geometry, remove congestion, provide
facilities for pedestrian and non-motorised traffic. In settlement stretches, service lanes would
be provided. The safety benefits from the project are quite significant and it could be even more
if mitigation measures are implemented each phase of the project
Mitigation Measures
Design Measures: Design Improvements at curves, segregating slow moving traffic in the
market places by service lanes, provision of wider median in rural stretches and plantation of
shrubs/under trees to avoid the glare of vehicles moving in opposite directions during night are
some of the design solutions provided. Provision of proper signage, proper lighting
arrangements will be made.
Chain link fencing: Two typical arrangements have been worked out to ensure the safety of
the pedestrians and for the GTRP. The construction camps will be fenced off using chain-link
fencing to prevent unauthorized entry. Chain-link is commercially available in rolls and can be
raised on-site as per the perimeter of the construction camps, vehicle-parking areas and any
other areas where temporary enclosure is required.
Control of Direct Access: Unhindered access from adjoining properties at high speeds can
lead to accidents with fast-moving vehicles on the NH-2. The design developed for the access
ensures that the user has to completely change the direction of movement at least twice
between leaving the area beyond the RoW and entering NH-2. The semicircular dogleg type
arrangement will be provided wherever it is expected that the road-user will visit the adjoining
properties. Shrines along the NH-2, schools and educational establishments along the road,
public buildings will have this arrangement at the entry/exit. The brick-walled and cement tiled
structure will provide the only opening through compound walls of all highway abutting
properties.
Traffic Plan: Traffic management plan will be developed, especially in congested locations in
the operation stages. Traffic control measures including speed limits will be enforced strictly.
Construction Safety Plan: In addition a construction period safety plan has been prepared to
maximize and ensure safety of users and workers during the construction.
34
Lea ASociates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
1.6 COMMUNITY CONSULTATION IN THE PROJECT
The Public Consultation has been carried out at various stages of project preparation, including
at the Environmental Screening stage, Feasibility stage and the Environmental Assessment
Preparation stage. Public Consultation was conducted along the various project packages at 46
locations (11, 12, 15 and 8 locations in Packages II through V, respectively). These included 16
Door-to-Door Personal Interviews, 14 Focus Group Discussions, 8 Stakeholders' Consultation
Sessions and 6 District Level Public Hearings.
Consultation with the communities resulted in arriving at design solutions, appropriate and
conducive to the felt needs of the people. Comprehensive documentation about ecosystem
components, hotspots and community networks enabled minimizing the possible impacts.
To redress the environmental issues likely to surface during construction and operational
phases, constant communication needs to be continued. This will be ensured by regular
progress monitoring of the construction and inviting suggestions/ complaints through grievance
redressal cells under the PlUs and with cooperation of the NGOs. Meetings will be organized
with the project affected people and the various stakeholders at regular intervals at the potential
hotspot/sensitive locations before and during project implementation.
1.7 CAPACITY BUILDING & IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1.7.1 EXISTING INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
NHAI Corporate: The existing organizational set-up of the NHAI for TNHP & GTRP consists of
a corporate office and 5 PlUs-each responsible for the implementation while the corporate office
deals with the policy level issues, liaisoning with other government departments, donor
agencies, etc. the CGM (WB) is responsible for the effective implementation of project activities.
Assisted by two GMs (WB), one responsible for the TNHP while the other looking after GTRP,
and a GM (Environment and R & R), the CGM acts as the mode for project implementation at
the NHAI headquarters.
The GM (Env. And R&R) is responsible for issues related with physical as well as socio-
economic environment. He interacts with the PlUs' Manager (Environment) and Manager
(R&R).
Project Implementation Units (PIUs): For each design package, a separate Project
Implementation Units headed by a project director, have been constituted. Three managers
assist the P.D in the smooth functioning of the PIU. Of the three, one holds the additional
charge for environment while another looks after R&R issues. The Manager (Technical i/c
Environment) is responsible for the implementation of the various measures proposed in the
Environmental Management Plan, while the Manager (Technical i/c R&R) is responsible for the
implementation of provisions of the RAP within the package stretches.
OTHER AGENCIES
Non-Governmental Organisations: Non-govemmental organisations are involved to assist in
the implementation of the RAP to monitor the progress and implementation of the proposed
measures. A representative of the NGO will also be a part of the District Level Committee that
35
Lea Assocsat.s
Mcr



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
will decide the replacement value of land and properties to be acquired. As part of efforts to
address the grievances of the project affected people, Grievance Redressal Committees for
each district will also have a representative from local NGOs. This committee will decide (except
for courts) on issues related to compensation for acquired land and property and other
grievances of PAPs.
Supervision Consultants: In addition to the PIU, the works are to be directly supervised by
construction supervision consultants, also selected through Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB). The contractor and the construction supervision consultants are the agencies responsible
during the implementation period. The contractors for this project, who would also be selected
through ICB are expected to have substantial environmental capacity with respect to the
process, equipment, methods and quality of construction. The construction supervision
consultants are expected to supervise implementation of the environmental components of the
project by the contractor.
Contractors: As the executioners of the environmental Management Plans for each package,
the contractors are expected to follow the letter and spirit of the specifications. Though each
contractor will have a set-up for executing works specified in the EMP, it is expected at that a
certain portion of its staff will have enough environmental awareness necessary for the
successful completion of the works entrusted.
1.7.2 PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
NHAI Head Quarters
The corporate headquarters of the NHAI environmental staff will be augmented by addition of
one DGM, two Senior Managers and two engineers. This will create a systematic environmental'
cadre in the NHAI that will act as a channel for inculcating environmentally sensitive assure
career-minded professionals that choosing the environmental cellUdivision/section at NHAI will
not bar them from getting potentially responsibie positions within the organisation moreover,
with the road length being assigned to the NHAI increasing, and the improvement and
strengthening of NH2 being accorded very high priority, the work load for the existing skeletal
staff will increase. It is for this reason that a new DGM (R&R) is being proposed. The land
acquisition for especially bypasses, and the property removal in urban areas necessitates the
services of a professional well acquainted with the human dimensions of development projects.
Another position to be created at the Corporate HQ of NHAI is DGM (Env.). Reporting to the GM
(Env. + R&R), the DGM will receive and compile quarterly reports from Manager (Env.) in each
PIU. He will also oversee the functions of the documentation engineers (detailed out below) who
are expected to help ensure that environmental concerns are integrated into the proposed
Corridor Maintenance and Management Unit's functioning at the Corporate NHAI level. In
addition, the DGM will also be responsible for periodic monitoring, contingency/improved
design, providing inputs into the draft budget plans of the Environmental Cell, checking progress
and setting targets for line agency works.  Previous experience of environmental monitoring
would be highly desirable.
In addition, procuring services of two engineers will augment the Environmental Cell at
Corporate HQ of NHAI: one for GIS documentation and the other for Contracts. The former fits
well with the NHAI's plans for a nationwide Corridor Management and Maintenance Unit as part
of the facelift it wishes to give to the organizational structure to make itself more road user-
36
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Envirovnmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
sensitive. Directly overlaying the environmental attributes onto the base map will help create a
clearer picture of the conditions on the ground. The Contract Engineer will ensure that the
Conditions of Contract are suitably modified to incorporate the various environmental/social
provisions. The documentation engineer in charge of GIS should have previous certified training
in the area and should preferably have a degree in Civil Engineering. The Contracts engineer
should be a Civil Engineer or Planner with a Masters' in Environmental Engineering.
Project Implementation Units (PIU)
At the project level, each PIU will require separate Managers to oversee Environmental and
Social aspects individually. The present provision for part-time (in-charge along with Technical
aspects) responsibilities is likely to be inadequate since the implementation phase will entail
looking after each and every environmentally sensitive location where any project activity is
going on. The Manager (Env.) within each PIU must have BE (Civil) or MSc (Environmental
Science). The desirable qualifications include ME (Env.). Prior experience on construction site
would be a definite advantage. The main responsibilities of the incumbent would be:
*  Compile quarterly environmental reports and send the same to the Corporate HQ, NHAI
* Verify compliance monitoring carried out by consultants
*  Routine check on the site every 15 days.
*  Take on spot decisions rectify minor problems on site
*  Oversee supervision consultants
*  Ensure co-ordination among govemment departments/agencies
Construction Supervision Consultants
The Construction Supervision Consultant will need to employ environmental engineers in each
construction package along with a specialist already envisaged. These engineers, one each for
the 7 contract packages of the GTRP, will actually monitor the site activities, verify that the
contractor has executed the management plan provisions as per specifications. They will
arrange for the monitoring of environmental conditions as per the monitoring plan and also
prepare the reports to be submitted to the PIU. They should ideally be Environmental/Civil
engineers with prior experience of environmental monitoring. Otherwise, a post-graduate (MSc/
PG diploma) in environmental science could also be considered. However, for this candidate,
some prior experience of construction related activity would be highly desirable.
Contractors
The Contractors will have to employ Environmental Engineer/s. Depending upon the number of
contracts awarded to each successful bidder, the number will vary. The best situation would be
the use of Civil Engineers with electives in environmental engineering during the final year to
supervise the environmental aspects. Their duty will include the proper construction and
maintenance of the facilities for the labour camps, the measurement and verification of
quantities for environmental enhancement, ensuring that proper environmental safeguards are
being maintained at borrow sites and quarries from which the contractor procures material for
construction. They will also have to prepare the bills of quantities for the work carried out for
enhancement. In addition, they will have to ensure that proper facilities are available for the
37
Lea Associats



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
monitoring of ambient air quality and collection of water and soil samples as provided for in the
environmental monitoring plan.
Other agencies
The NGOs involved with the project will need suitably qualified people to deal with the
provisions of the RAP. The workers should have had education in sociology/psychology/social
work and preferably have some prior experience of R&R works. Though working on such
activities for road projects would be definite advantage, previous work for any development
project would be acceptable. The NGO selected should have at least one representative in each
village affected by the road. The NGO would report to the PIU regarding the progress of
implementation of RAP provisions as construction proceeds.
The monitoring pollution of physical environment is being envisaged to be carried out by reputed
educational institutions. The table below identifies such institutions for each consultancy
package. Though staffing these not a direct concem of the project, it must be ensured that the
PIU impresses upon each institute the critical role of their monitoring. The PIU should also
ensure that the institutes send competent staff with necessary equipment for monitoring and
have the capacity in terms of staff & equipments to simultaneously monitor at least two sites.
These institutes will report to the PIU in their own formats,
Package                                 Institution
I 0 Xi 0 0  |               Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh
11                        Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur
III                  Motilal Nehru Regional Engineenng College, Allahabad
IV                 Institute of Technology, Benaras Hindu University, Varanasi
v                            Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad
Facilities for the Environmental Cell
The environment cell at the PIU will require a vehicle to inspect works on site. Normally, a four-
wheeler with enough seating (room) for two officers and a dnver alongwith space for equipment
for measurement will be needed at each PIU. A four wheel-drive vehicle will be the preferred
choice. The vehicle need not be dedicated for the environmental cell but such an arrangement
would be better than sharing PIU's other vehicles. In addition, the PIU is better of having its own
monitoring equipment viz noise meter, hand-held gas sensors, etc. in addition the environmental
cell at each PIU should be connected to the Documentation Unit at (NHAI by NHAI-wide
LAN(WAN).
The (NHAI will need not only the e-mail facilities and connection the NHAI-wide LAN. It will also
need a scanner, which can be used with GIS bassed corrdor management system able to
handle upto A3 sized sheets for directly transferring top sheet image into the system. Adequate
computing facilities to allow the documentation unit to be self-sufficient are suggested. Each
official at the (NHAI will have their own PC, a common printer and an access to the Internet.
Adequate vehicles (for the DGM(s) & GM) will be needed. In addition, a separate field visit
vehicle (preferably a four-wheel drive) should also be kept at the disposal of environmental cell
for surprise monitor of construction sites.
1.7.3 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING SYSTEM
The Monitoring and Evaluation are critical activities in implementation of the Project. Monitoring
involves periodic checking to ascertain whether activities are going according to the plans. It
38
Lea Associutes



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
provides the necessary feedback for project management to keep the program on schedule. By
contrast evaluation is essentially a summing up, the end of the projects assessment of whether
those activities actually achieved their intended ends.T here are two important aspects of
reporting as described in the section dealing with the responsibilities of the Manager
(Environment):
*         Reporting on progress,
*         Environmental compliance monitoring.
The reporting system will operate linearly with the contractor who is at the lowest rung of the
implementation system reporting to the Supervision Consultant, who in turn shall report to the
PIU. All reporting by the contractor and Supervision Consultant shall be on a quarterly basis.
The compliance monitoring and the progress reports on environmental components may be
clubbed together and submitted to the NHAI (through the PIU) quarterly during the
implementation period. The operation stage monitoring reports may be annual or biennial,
Responsibilities for oversight (overseeing) will rest with the Supervision Consultant's staff
reporting to the PIU Environmental Unit. Capacity to quantitatively monitor relevant ecological
parameters would be an advantage but monitoring will pnmarily involve ensuring that actions
taken are in accordance with contract and specification clauses, and specified mitigation
measures as per the EMP. Photographic records will also be established to provide useful
environmental monitoring tools. A full record will be kept as part of normal contract monitoring.
Reporting and Monitoring Systems for various stages of construction and related activities have
been proposed to ensure timely and effective implementation of the EMAP.
1.7.4 INTERNALIZING ENVIRONMENTAL EXPERTISE IN THE NHAI
Moreover, as a long chain of projects is envisaged over the next decade or so in the highways
sector in India, the acquired capacity needs to be fully internalized. Two things become
important in this respect. One, there should be substantial environmental capacity beyond the
staff directly responsible for implementing the EMP in different projects. This may be achieved
through training and dissemination of information. Two, there should be a distinct career path for
the Managers (Environment) once the projects are completed.
The training aspect of the intermediate term capacity building and internalisation is described
below. The career path or incentives to the Environmental and R&R specialists is a long-term
issue and is not within the scope of this assignment. However, it is expected that steps in this
direction will be taken.
1.7.5 OPERATIONALISATION
Operationalisation of the environmental setup for this project would involve three distinct
elements. These are:
*  Identification and appointment of Staff
*  Procurement of NGOs and other agencies responsible for implementation
*  Training
Each of these is described below.
Identification and Appointment of Staff
39
Lea Aasocistos
MC- ,



Executive Summary Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
At the project level, the PIU has already been fully functional. All three managers including the
Manager (Technical & i/c Environment) are in place. The Manager (Technical & i/c
Environment) has already been involved in the design of the project and preparation of EMP as
an associate. The Manager (Technical & i/c Environment) is already familiar with the project site
and has developed understanding of the site condition and basic environmental issues.
Moreover, the Manager (Technical & i/c Environment) is conversant with the processes,
methods and equipment for the proposed construction works.
Procurement of NGOs and other Agencies
Services of any other agency, if found necessary during the course of implementation, will be
procured by the NHAI.
Training
Training needs :The DGM (Environment), the Managers (Environment), the personnel of the
Construction Supervision Consultant and the Contractor, who would be responsible for the
implementation of the EMP, need to be trained on environmental issues of road development
project. To ensure the success of the implementation setup proposed, there is a high
requirement of training and skill upgradation.
Training Programme: The proposed training programme incorporates the project needs as
well as the intermediate-term capacity building needs of the NHAI. The programme consists of a
number of training modules specific to target groups. The training programme proposed in the
TNHP has been retained to build a continuum for the advanced training being proposed as part
of the GTRP. However, the numbers have been suitably revised to allow for the training already
to be imparted as part of the TNHP
Target Groups: All members of the PlUs/NHAI, staff of the contractors, supervision
consultants, the collaborating government agencies represented by the officials identified to be
directly responsible for delivery of collaborating services and the NGOs with their field staff will
all be imparted training. They are divided into the following target groups.
As the needs of these groups are different from each other, training deliverables would also be
distinct. This would be attained by specifying a combination of training modules for each target
group. Four such groups have been identified.
Group [:The group that potentially needs training in EMP implementation; environmental design,
re-design and environmental conflict resolution. Includes the Managers (Environment) of the
PlUs and the representative staff of the Construction Supervision Consultants. (Also NGOs if
procured.)
Group ll:The group that potentially needs training in environmentally acceptable processes,
methods and equipment of road construction. Includes the full PIU, representative staff of the
Construction Supervision Consultants and the Contractors.
Group IlI:The group that would require an understanding of the environmental policies and
programmes. Includes the full PIU and the Senior NHAI staff.
Group IV: The group that needs to be included into the environmental awareness programmes.
Includes staff of the collaborating government agencies and all staff of the NHAI.
40
Lea Assocates



Executive Sumary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
1.7.6 TRAINING PROGRAMME
The training would cover the basic principles and postulates of environmental assessment,
mitigation plans and programmes (particularly the World Bank Operational Guidelines and
National Policy Perspectives), implementation techniques, monitoring and management
methods and tools.
Looking into the potential requirements of each of the target groups, several training modules
are suggested below.
Module I: Environmental Overview
Module II: Environmental Regulations and Acts
Module III: Pollution
Module IV: Environmental Impact Assessment
Module V: Environmental management Plan
Module VI: Highway Projects and Environmental Issues
Module VII: Environmental Issues in the Project
Module VIII: The Environmental Management Plan for Highway Projects
Module IX: Environmentally Sound Construction Management
Module X: Planning for Environmentally Sustainable Operation of Highways
Module Xl: Long Term Environmental Issues in Highway Management
1.7.7  TRAINING SCHEDULE
The training modules are combined into different training components. There are overlaps in the
composition of the target groups and the constitution of the training components. However, each
training module would need to be developed keeping in view the composition and
responsibilities of the target group members. The training schedule for the various target groups
would be as given in Table below.
Table 1-18 Training Schedule for Different Target Groups
Target Groups       Target Group I                           Target Group II                 Target Group III             Target Group IV
Participants        Managers (Environment), staff of the     PIU, staff of the Construction  PIU and the Senior NHAI staff  Collaborating
Construcbon Supervision Consultant. NGOs   Supervision Consultants. the                               Govemment agencies
Contractors                                                 and all staff of the NHAI
Forums of Training  Lecture Sessions,                        Seminars,                       Short-term Training Courses.   Audio-Visual
Workshops,                               Workshops,                      Visits to Case Studies,      Communication,
Group Discussions,                       Lecture Sessions                Seminars                    Informal Training
Short-term Training Courses
Training Schedule   Depending on the starl of the Project    Components 2A to be completed   To start before the          Contnuing training
Implementation; Training on Components 1A   before the start of implementation.  oommencement of project  programme during the
and IC must be completed before the start of  Training in other Components may  implementation, may continue   project implementabon
implementabon: Other Components may be    be imparted during the inital 6  throughout the implementabon  period.
held in the initial 2-3 months of project  months of project implementation,  period.
implementation.                          preferably on site.
Contents of         Component jA (Modules 1, 11 and Ill)     Component 2A (Modules I, II and  Component 3A (Modules I, II  Component 4A (Modules
Training            Component 1B (Modules IV and V)          It)                            and III)                    1, 11 and l1l)
Component IC (Module VI)                 Component 2B (Modules IV and   Component 38 (Module Vt)
Component 1 D (Modules IX and X) and     V)                              Component 3C (Module VIII)
Component IE (Module Xl)                 Component 2C (Module VI) and
Component 20 (Module Vtt)
41
Lea Associates



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Trunk Road Project
1.7.8 TRAINING BUDGET
The total budget required for implementing the training programme is Rs 7.94million. The break-
up for the entire GTRP is presented below.
Table 1-19: Budget for Implementation of Environmental Training
Programme
No. of Training Components            5         4        3        1        Total Budget
Forum                   Unit Cost     Target    Target   Target   Target  (Rs)
(Rs/session)    Group I   Group II Group IlIl Group IV
Strengthening Training measures already part of TNHP
Informal Training Sessions       500                              5                 25,00
Audio-Visual Communications     25,00                             10               250,00
Case Studies                    35,00                    2                         210,00
Lecture Sessions                45,00  5                                          1,125,00
Workshops                       20,00           1                                   80,00
Group Discussions               10,00  5                                           250,00
Short-Term Training Courses     50,00  5                 10                       2,750,00
(in India)
Seminars                       100.00           1        2                        1,000,00
Additional Training Modules in GTRP
Short-Term Training Courses    350,00  3 places every year from NHAI staff induded i  1,050,00
(abroad)              |               Group I or II
Full-term Training Courses   1.200,00  1 place from the Managers (Environment)    1,200,00
(abroad)
Grand Total                                                                       7,940,00
1.7.9   OPERATIONALISATION
Operationalisation of the environmental setup would involve (i) identification and appointment of
staff, (ii) procurement of NGOs and other agencies responsible for implementation, and (iii)
training.
At the project level, the PlUs have already been fully functional. The Managers (Technical & i/c
Environment) have already been involved in the design of the project and preparation of EMP.
The Environmental Manager (HQ) will be selected and appointed shortly.
NGOs, as and wherever required, will be procured based on quality-cum-cost basis. Services of
those NGOs, if any, already engaged in the project for implementing the RAP will be preferred
for implementation of environmental components also. Services of any other agency (including
government agencies), if and whenever required during the course of implementation, will be
procured by the NHAI.
1.8 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLANS
Separate Environmental Management Plans (including Environmental Monitoring Plans) have
been prepared for each of the Contract Packages. The Environmental Management Plans
(EMP) is based on the EIA/EMP reports prepared for the respective Package of the project.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) consists of the set of mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the design, construction and operation stages of the
project to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, to offset them, or to reduce them to
acceptable levels. The objectives of the EMPs in different stages of the project are the following:
42
Lea Assocates
RZ



Executive Summary: Environmental Impact Assessment
Grand Thunk Road Project
1.8.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAMME
To ensure the effective implementation of the EMP, it is essential that an effective monitoring
programme be designed and carried out. The broad objectives are
* To evaluate the performance of mitigation measures proposed in the EMP
* To evaluate the adequacy of Environmental Impact Assessment
* To suggest improvements in management plan, if required
* To enhance environmental quality
* To satisfy the legal and community obligations.
Performance Indicators
The physical, biological and social components identified as of particular significance in
affecting the environment at critical locations have been suggested as Performance Indicators
and are Air quality (SPM, RSPM and CO),Water quality (DO, BOD and Coliform count),Noise
levels  around   sensitive   locations,Replantation   success   I  survival  rate,Erosion-
indices,Sedimentation rate in the downstream where bridges, culverts, etc., are built ,Vital
statistics on health,Accident frequency.
Monitoring Plans
The monitoring plans during construction and operation stages have again been described in
detail in the respective EMP documents for each of the Contract Packages. For each of the
environmental components, the monitoring plan specifies the parameters to be monitored;
location of monitoring sites; frequency and duration of monitoring. The monitoring plan also
specifies the applicable standards, implementation and supervising responsibilities.
1.8.2 BUDGET FOR ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
The environmental budget for the various environmental management measures proposed in
the environmental management plans, the environmental monitorng plans and the training
programme is given below. Further details with respect to the location, units of measurement,
and rates applicable are given in the respective EMP documents.
Table 1-20 Environmental Budget in the Project
Budget Head                                      Package (in INR)
IA         IB           IC         ilB        IVA       IVc        VB
Mitigation I Enhancement
costs                     85,431,528   99,844,926  123,190,572  86,784,899 128,739,392  52,612,288 137,993,064
Monitoring Costs           3,207,000    3,748,062    4,624,430   3,257,804  4,832,727   1,975,004   5,180,099
Training & Mobilisation Costs    1,750,000    2,045,000    2,523,000   1,778,000  2,637,000   1,078,000   2,827,000
Advocacy   and   Policy
Planning                    500,000      584,000     721,000    508,000    753,000    308,000    808,000
Total Amount assigned     91,000,000  106,000,000  131,000,000  92,000,000 137,000,000  56,000,000 146,000,000
Contingency@ 10% ofTotal    9,100,000   10,600,000   13,100,000   9,200,000  13.700,000  5,600,000  14,600,000
Total                    100,100,000  116,600,000  144,100,000 101,200,000 150,700,000  61,600,000 160,600,000
._______________   ._______  _GRAND TOTAL FOR ENTIRE GTRP    834,900,000
43
Lea Associ&W



