Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4622 IN
Project Agreement
(Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
Dated July 27, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4622 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
(NHAI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India (the Borrower) 
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to 
five hundred eighty-nine million dollars ($589,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NHAI agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS NHAI, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) NHAI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, transport, social 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and NHAI shall otherwise agree, NHAI shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NHAI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NHAI shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and NHAI, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
NHAI on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) NHAI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
NHAI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by NHAI of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NHAI
Section 3.01. NHAI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, transport, social and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NHAI shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and transport practices.
Section 3.03. NHAI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NHAI shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
NHAI shall:
Page  3
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, NHAI shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable NHAI, not later than January 1, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, NHAI shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of NHAI 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify NHAI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
Page  4
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NHAI:
Chairman
National Highways Authority of India
1 Eastern Avenue
Maharani Bagh
New Delhi -- 110065, India
Facsimile:
91-11-692-4383
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NHAI may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman, NHAI or such other person or persons as the 
Chairman, NHAI shall designate in writing, and the Chairman, NHAI shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
By /s/ Deepak Dasgupta
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Page  5
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for contracts for works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping/ Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $560,000 equivalent, and the aerial survey work 
estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent:
(i)
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(ii)
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured by direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Three Quotations/Direct Contracting/Force Account
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $16,400,000 equivalent, related to: (a) infrastructure 
facilities for carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people 
under Part A.2 of the Project; (b) the implementation of environmental mitigation 
measures under Part A.2 of the Project; (c) road safety and corridor management under 
Page  6
Part B of the Project; and (d) other minor items as agreed by NHAI and the Bank:
(i)
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully;
(ii)
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured by direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent when added to the works procured under subparagraph 
(iii) of this paragraph 3; or
(iii)
may, if they meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph 
of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent when added to the works procured under 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph 3.
4.
BOO/BOT/BOOT Procurement
The section of the national highways to be upgraded under the pilot project 
under Part C of the Project may be constructed, operated and subsequently transferred 
under a contract awarded to an entrepreneur on the basis of international competitive 
bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, 
subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13(a) thereof.  The goods/works/services 
required for the construction under said pilot project shall then be procured in 
accordance with the applicable procedures of said entrepreneur.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (a) each contract for works to be procured under paragraph 1 of Part B 
of this Section I and under paragraph 4 of Part C of this Section I; (b) the first two 
contracts for works to be procured under paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section I, 
irrespective of value; (c) each contract for works to be procured under paragraph 1 of  
Part C of this Section I estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; and 
(d) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  7
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for: (i) the implementation of the road safety action plan under Part D 
of the Project; (ii) the cross-state border road transport efficiency study under Part 
D of the Project; (iii) the sector-related studies and pre-investment studies under 
Part D of the Project; and (iv) the preparation and implementation of any additional 
environmental and related safeguard measures under Part A.1 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for: (i) the training and streamlining of procedures for the social and 
environmental capacity building under Part D of the Project; and (ii) the 
implementation of each EMP and each RAP may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for: (i) safety audits under Part B of the Project; (ii) the poverty 
impact of highway development study under Part D of the Project; and (iii) the 
training of trainers and dissemination of road safety manuals under Part D of the 
Project may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  8
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
State Level Coordination
1.
NHAI shall ensure that state level Project Coordinating Committees are 
maintained in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, under suitable 
arrangements between NHAI and those States, and with the composition, powers, 
functions and resources, all satisfactory to the Bank.
External Stakeholders Advisory Group
2.
NHAI shall maintain an advisory group of external stakeholders, which shall meet 
at least twice each year to review the overall program and strategy being implemented 
under the Project.
Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management
3.
NHAI shall:
(a)
(i) obtain from the relevant governmental authorities all necessary 
environmental and forestry clearances for all the sections of roads included in the 
Project; (ii) submit copies of such clearances to the Bank before contracts for the 
works for the relevant sections of the roads are awarded; and (iii) comply with all 
the conditions imposed by the relevant governmental authorities under such clearances;
(b)
ensure that all contracts for civil works under the Project will include 
environmental mitigation measures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
implement the environmental mitigation, monitoring, institutional 
strengthening and other measures set forth in the EA, each EMP and the Tree Plantation 
Strategy in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and 
other provisions set forth therein and shall not take any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such implementation.
Land Acquisition; Resettlement and Rehabilitation
4.
NHAI shall:
(a)
without limitation to Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, take such 
action as may be necessary to acquire land as and when needed for carrying out the 
Project; and
(b)
implement the resettlement and rehabilitation and related measures set 
forth in each RAP in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time 
schedules and other provisions set forth therein and shall not take any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such implementation.
Public-private Partnership in Road Concession
5.
NHAI shall: (a) prior to inviting bids for any contract with a private entity 
participating in a pilot project under Part C of the Project, submit to the Bank an 
environmental impact assessment, an environmental management plan and a resettlement 
action plan, all satisfactory to the Bank, for the roads included in such pilot 
project; and (b) thereafter, ensure that all measures set forth in such assessment and 
plans, including without limitation environmental mitigation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation and related measures, will be implemented in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth 
therein and that any action which would prevent or interfere with such implementation 
will not be taken.
Roads Not Included in Project Implementation Plan
6.
NHAI shall not use any part of the proceeds of the Loan to undertake civil works 
on any roads not included in the Project Implementation Plan, unless and until NHAI 
has submitted to the Bank documentation satisfactory to the Bank for undertaking civil 
Page  9
works for such roads, including without limitation a feasibility study report, an 
environmental management plan and a resettlement action plan.
Cross-state Border Road Transport Efficiency Study
7.
NHAI shall: (i) by December 31, 2001, arrange for a cross-state border road 
transport efficiency study, with methodology, scope and content satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be initiated by an independent consultant, with qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) thereafter furnish to the Bank a 
monthly progress report of such study; and (iii) within one year of the commencement 
of such study, complete the study and furnish to the Bank a final report of the study.
User Costs and Asset Condition
8.
NHAI shall, not later than December 31 of each year, beginning with the year 
2001, furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on 
the condition of the NHAI network and projected future user costs, and on the 
condition of its assets, together with forecast levels of maintenance.
Travel Speeds and Accidents
9.
NHAI shall, not later than November 30 of each year, beginning with the year 
2001: (a) furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, on travel speeds and accidents in respect of the highways included in Part B.1 
of the Project; and (b) on the basis thereof, agree with the Bank on the expenditure 
program for the following year for said highways under said Part of the Project.
Quarterly Reports
10.
Within forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter, NHAI shall provide to 
the Bank a quarterly report setting forth: (a) the progress of Project implementation 
and the achievement of the indicators referred to in paragraph 12 below; and (b) a 
proposed action plan for each Part of the Project for the following quarter.
11.
At the request of the Bank, NHAI shall: (a) review with the Bank each of the 
reports referred to in the preceding paragraph; and (b) thereafter take all measures 
required to improve the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof by duly taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter.
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-Term Review
12.
NHAI shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by September 1, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 1, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
