                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR0000978



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-46220)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$589.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                       FOR THE

                 GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                     March 31, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate as on 02/28/2009)

                                Currency Unit   :    Indian Rupee (INR)
                            Indian Rupee 1.00   :    US$0.02
                                     US$1.00    =    INRs.49.80

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                          April 1 ­ March 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABP     Allahabad Bypass Project                     IRR    Internal Rate of Return
ADB     Asian Development Bank                       ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
ATMS    Advanced Traffic Management System           JBIC   Japanese Bank of International Co-operation
BOT     Build-Operate-Transfer                       LA     Land Acquisition
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                  LMNHP  Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway
                                                            Project
CMU     Corridor Management Unit                     M&E    Monitoring & Evaluation
COS     Committee of Secretaries                     MOSRTH Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and
                                                            Highways
CSC     Construction Supervising Consultant          MOST   Ministry of Surface Transport
DGM     Deputy General Manager                       MTR    Mid-term Review
DPR     Detailed Project Report                      NH     National Highway
DRB     Dispute Resolution Board                     NHAI   National Highways Authority of India
EIRR    Economic Internal rate of Return             NHDP   National Highways Development Program
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                O&M    Operation & Maintenance
EOP     End of Project                               PAD    Project Appraisal Document
EOT     End of Project Target                        PDO    Project Development Objectives
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                      PIU    Project Implementation Unit
ESDU    Environmental and Social Development Unit    PPP    Public-Private Partnership
ESMS    Environmental & Social Mgt. System           PSR    Project Status Report
FMS     Financial Management System                  PWD    Public Works Department
GBWS    Gautam Buddha Wild Life Sanctuary            QAG    Quality Assurance Group
GOI     Government of India                          QCBS   Quality & Cost Based Selection
GQ      Golden Quadrilateral                         RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
GTRIP   Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project         RIS    Road Information System
HDM     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards     TNHP   Third National Highways Project
        Model
ICRR    Implementation Completion & Results Report   VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
IRI     International Road Roughness Index


                                   Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                                 Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
                                  Sector Manager: Michel Audigé
                             Project Team Leader: Rajesh Rohatgi
                                ICR Team Leader: Nupur Gupta
                                               INDIA
                                 Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project



                                                        CONTENTS




                                                                                                                           Page
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring ............................................................................................................ iv
I. Disbursement Graph ................................................................................................... v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (Revised) .......................................................... 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 25
Annex 5. Socio-economic Impact of National Highway on Rural Population ............. 27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 45

Project Map: IBRD 31387
A. Basic Information
Country:                India                Project Name:              Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Project ID:             P071244              L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-46220
ICR Date:               03/31/2009           ICR Type:                  Intensive Learning ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                  Borrower:                  GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 589.0M           Disbursed Amount:          USD 487.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: National Highways Authority of India
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
      Process                 Date               Process              Original Date        Revised/Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:          01/09/2001      Effectiveness:                                          11/21/2001
Appraisal:               02/14/2001      Restructuring(s):                                       12/27/2006
Approval:                06/21/2001      Mid-term Review:               05/12/2006               10/28/2003
                                         Closing:                       12/31/2006               06/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                          Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Moderately Unsatisfactory Government:                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                         Moderately Unsatisfactory                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
           Implementation Performance               Indicators                  QAG Assessments (if any)      Rating
 Potential Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):                  Yes         Quality at Entry (QEA):             None
 Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):                            Yes         Quality of Supervision (QSA):       None
                                                               Moderately
 DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:
                                                               Satisfactory




                                                           i
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                            4                       4
Information technology                                                       2                       2
Media                                                                        1                       1
Roads and highways                                                          93                      93

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health                             Secondary              Secondary
Technology diffusion                                                       Primary                Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                                 At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:                  Isabel M. Guerrero                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                N. Roberto Zagha                       Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                  Michel Audigé                          Vincent Gouarne
Project Team Leader:             Rajesh Rohatgi                         Zhi Liu
ICR Team Leader:                 Nupur Gupta
ICR Primary Author:              Clell G. Harral

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. To reduce transport constraints on national economic activity.
2. To improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets, and services on a more
   commercial basis.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                                             Actual Value
                                                      Original Target     Formally
                                       Baseline                                               Achieved at
             Indicator                                 Values (from     Revised Target
                                        Value                                                Completion or
                                                    approval documents)    Values
                                                                                             Target Years
 Indicator 1 :                       Travel time along Delhi-Kolkata national highway corridor
 Value quantitative or Qualitative)  4 to 5 days Reduced by 25-30%           3 to 4 days        2 to 3 days
 Date achieved                       05/30/2001        12/31/2006           12/31/2006          06/30/2008
 Comments (incl. % achievement)      The project overachieved the specified target
 Indicator 2 :                       Truck operating cost along Delhi-Kolkata national highway corridor
                                                    Reduced by 10% in
 Value quantitative or Qualitative) Rs. 11 per km                         Rs. 9.90 per km    Rs. 15.84 per km
                                                        real terms
                                                                                                06/30/2008
 Date achieved                       05/30/2001        12/31/2006           12/31/2006



                                                            ii
                                                                                                   Actual Value
                                                     Original Target     Formally
                                       Baseline                                                    Achieved at
            Indicator                                 Values (from     Revised Target
                                        Value                                                     Completion or
                                                   approval documents)    Values
                                                                                                  Target Years
                                      Truck operating costs have increased by 44% mainly on account of the large
Comments (incl. % achievement)        increases in the price of trucks and some differences in computation
                                      methodology
Indicator 3 :                         Incidence of road deaths on project roads
Value quantitative or Qualitative)        715          Reduced by 20%            572                   838
Date achieved                         12/31/2005          12/31/2006          12/31/2006           07/31/2007
                                      This indicator has been grossly underachieved. The road fatalities have grown
Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                      17% instead of coming down.
                                      National highways maintained under contract with private sector and managed
Indicator 4 :
                                      by Corridor Management Units
                                                                                              4,304 km on private
Value quantitative or                                                                         contracts under CMU
                                          Nil              1,200 km
Qualitative)                                                                                  plus 808 km under
                                                                                              BoT contracts
Date achieved                         05/30/2001          12/31/2006                               11/30/2008
Comments (incl. % achievement)        The target has been exceeded manifold.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                                                                Actual Value
                                                     Original Target     Formally
                                       Baseline                                                  Achieved at
            Indicator                                 Values (from     Revised Target
                                        Value                                                   Completion or
                                                   approval documents)    Values
                                                                                                Target Years
Indicator 1 :                         ERR of the project roads
Value (quantitative or Qualitative)       Nil            Above 26%                                   21%
Date achieved                         05/30/2001         12/31/2006                               06/30/2008
Comments (incl. % achievement)        The ERR was below target levels.
Indicator 2 :                         Corridor Management Units (CMUs) established
                                                    2 new CMUs (in
                                                    addition to 2 pilot                     4 (due to six laning 5
Value (quantitative                                 CMUs planned                            of the existing 9
                                          Nil
or Qualitative)                                     under Third                             CMUs have been re-
                                                    National Highway                        designated PIUs
                                                    Project)
Date achieved                         05/30/2001         10/28/2003                               11/30/2008
Comments (incl. % achievement)        The target of 2 CMUs in addition to the existing 2 CMUs was met.
                                      Expanded public-private partnership in promoting private investment on large
Indicator 3 :
                                      BOT projects
                                                    Public-private
                                                                                            86 PPP contracts
                                                    partnership
                                                                                            totaling 5607 km have
Value (quantitative                                 successfully executed
                                           0                                                been awarded. 10
or Qualitative)                                     to support large-scale
                                                                                            contracts (over 50 km)
                                                    (over 50 km) BOT
                                                                                            have been completed.
                                                    projects
Date achieved                         05/30/2001         12/31/2006                               06/30/2008
Comments (incl. % achievement)        The objective of promoting private investment was overwhelmingly achieved.




                                                        iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                     Actual Disbursements
 No.                               DO                                IP
          Archived                                                                        (USD millions)
 1       06/29/2001          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                     0.00
 2       12/20/2001          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                     5.89
 3       06/23/2002          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    25.96
 4       12/20/2002          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    46.17
 5       06/25/2003          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    81.32
 6       12/15/2003          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    94.79
 7       06/22/2004          Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                   126.98
 8       12/17/2004          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                   184.71
 9       05/25/2005      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             246.58
 10      11/23/2005      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             305.86
 11      05/31/2006      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             349.28
 12      10/31/2006      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             386.58
 13      05/14/2007      Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory            426.85
 14      09/28/2007      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             437.93
 15      06/30/2008      Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             476.94

H. Restructuring (if any)

                                   ISR Ratings at        Amount
  Restructuring   Board Approved   Restructuring      Disbursed at         Reason for Restructuring & Key
     Date(s)       PDO Change                        Restructuring in              Changes Made
                                   DO        IP       USD millions
                                                                          (a) Cancellation of the corridor
                                                                              Management & Road Safety
                                                                              Component: Changes in
                                                                              conditions surrounding the
                                                                              implementation of the Corridor
                                                                              Management and Road Safety
                                                                              Works Component due to GOI's
                                                                              decision to widen GQ to six lanes.

                                                                          (b) Cancellation in the PPP
                                                                              Component: NHAI has already
                                                                              got a full fledged PPP program in
   12/27/2006                       MS      MU              386.58
                                                                              their ongoing development
                                                                              program owing to GoI policy
                                                                              change to undertake NHDP
                                                                              development through PPP rather
                                                                              than EPC.

                                                                          (c) Cancellation of the Asset
                                                                              Inventory Study: There was
                                                                              significant overlap between the
                                                                              ongoing Road Information
                                                                              Systems study and
                                                                              implementation and this study.




                                                    iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Macro-economic and sector context. The Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project (GTRIP) was
appraised in February 2001 at a time when India's economy was accelerating from earlier growth rates of
5% toward 8% per year, and per capita gross national product was about US$ 470, with some 35-40
percent of the country's nearly one billion people living below the national poverty line. Prospects for
expanding economic growth were strong, but inadequate transport infrastructure was increasingly
constraining expansion.

The national highways, which carried roughly 40 percent of the road traffic while accounting for about
1.7 percent of the road network, were severely capacity constrained and suffered from poor road
condition. The Government of India (GOI) recognized that the poor performance of the national highway
system had been a major drag on the growth of the national economy. Following the recommendations of
the India Infrastructure Report 1996, GoI launched the National Highways Development Program
(NHDP) consisting of four laning of 13,000 km of trunk highways connecting the four major cities in the
country (popularly called the Golden Quadrangle), the East-West and North-South corridors, and the
major ports. The newly created National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was charged with the
responsibility for implementing the initial phases of the NHDP and resources were identified for the
funding of the program.

In addition to the serious capacity constraint on the national highway network, the following main sector
issues were recognized in the PAD: (i) worsening road safety amid growing motorization; (ii) poor
management of infrastructure services by the public sector; (iii) weak enabling environment for private
sector participation in road development and financing; (iv) outdated construction technologies and
capacity constraints in India's private road construction industry; and (v) weak institutional capacity to
address highway project related social and environmental issues.

The World Bank in coordination with ADB and JBIC adopted a corridor-wide approach of providing
assistance to the highway program. Focusing on a particular corridor was believed to have the advantage
of effectively addressing the identified issues of transport efficiency, corridor management and road
safety, environment and social, etc. As such the Bank focused on the 1000 km (Agra to Barwa Adda)
along National Highway 2 between Delhi and Kolkata, and adopted a programmatic approach to
supporting NHDP through a series of loans. The Third National Highways (TNHP), which financed four-
laning of those segments (some 475 km) of the NH-2 corridor which were the first to be ready for
implementation, was the Bank's first project with NHAI, appraised a year earlier. The GTRIP project
financed the upgrading of the remaining sections (420 km), along the same NH2 corridor, except one
(Allahabad Bypass) which was to be considered for funding under the next project. GTRIP and TNHP
are thus highly complementary to one another, constituting integral, overlapping components of the same
inter-city highway corridor and institutional development program for NHAI. The Bank subsequently also
funded a section of the East-West Corridor (485 km) between Lucknow and Muzaffarpur, the Lucknow
Muzhaffarpur National Highway Project (LMNHP).

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). A key objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
at the time the GTRIP project was approved was to remove highway infrastructure bottlenecks to poverty
reduction and private sector led growth. The project was also specifically designed to address the
following two areas of the CAS: (a) improving government capability and effectiveness to deliver core
public services that are vital for economic growth and poverty reduction; and (b) enabling the
environment for private sector investments in infrastructure.


                                                    1
Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank was in a unique position to respond to the opportunities and
challenges faced by the NHAI in its early years by (a) drawing on its broad experience with international
best practices as well as the lessons learned from previous and ongoing road projects in India being executed
primarily by the highway authorities of the respective states under a coordinating role played by the central
Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport, and Highways (MOSRTH); (b) using its lending and advisory
capabilities to leverage the institutional and policy reform process, (c) ensuring that social and
environmental concerns would be fully reflected in project implementation, and (d) supporting NHAI's
efforts to attract international road consultants and construction contractors to work in India in order to
promote competition and technological improvement of India's construction industry.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Objectives                               Key indicators by EoP
(a) to reduce transport constraints on    25-30% reduction in travel time
national economic activity                10% reduction in truck operating costs
                                          20% reduction in road deaths
(b) to improve institutional              20% reduction in road deaths
capabilities to manage road               About 1200 km of national highways maintained
programs, assets, and services on a         under contracts with private sector and managed by
more commercial basis                       the Corridor Management Units

As GTRIP was part of the programmatic support being provided by the Bank and the project development
objectives were the same as those for TNHP. In addition to supporting the above two objectives, the
GTRIP project was intended to take a `significant further step' in institutional development with respect
to:
 reducing the risks of road accidents and improving traffic efficiency; and
 promoting private sector participation in road financing.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
 The PDO were unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD identified a wide spectrum of beneficiary groups, including users of the national highways (both
long-distance and local), roadside communities and businesses, and the cities, towns, and rural areas
directly served by the project roads. Particular attention was called to the relatively high incidence of
poverty in the project corridor, which generally increased as one moved from west to east from Uttar
Pradesh into the states of Bihar and Jharkhand, and the likely poverty reducing impact of the highway on
the local economy and population.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Upgrading of 420 km of NH2 (total cost US$685.3 million). Highway upgrading of 420
km of NH-2 to four or six lanes including construction, supervision, land acquisition and resettlement,
and environmental management.




                                                     2
Component 2: Road Safety and Corridor Management Works (US$20.25 million). A program of road
improvements, including road safety audits, specifically targeted at supporting improved methods for
reducing accidents and a program of maintenance works to introduce alternative contracting methods and
strengthen maintenance management practices.

Component 3: Public-Private Partnership in Road Concession (US$25.55 million). Public-Private-
Partnerships in road concession, including technical assistance, funding NHAI's share of public-private
financing of pilot BOT project

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening (US$19.02 million). Institutional strengthening, including (a)
Social and environmental capacity building; (b) Road safety capacity strengthening including training of
trainers and dissemination of road safety manual, public education and campaign through mass media,
and implementation of the comprehensive road safety action plan; (c) Computerizing the Golden
Quadrilateral national highway asset inventory; (d) cross-border road transport efficiency study; (e)
Corridor Management Units related consultant services; (f) Project preparation and sector studies.

1.6 Revised Components

Road Safety and Corridor Management Works Component. Funds under this component had to be
reallocated, owing to the Government of India's policy decision to widen the entire GQ to six lane on
BOT basis. The road safety audits were conducted, and three pilot stretches identified and bids invited for
undertaking hybrid performance based maintenance contracts when the policy decision was taken. The
corridor management and safety works under this component could therefore not be implemented on
project roads, instead, alternate sections on the national highway network which were unlikely to be
widened for some years were identified. A hybrid O&M contract was piloted on a 180 km section of NH5
through NHAI's own funds. The ATMS which was to be implemented on 3 sections was finally not taken
up.

Public-Private Partnerships in Road Concessions. This component was dropped from the loan during a
project restructuring in 2006, as NHAI had already achieved a full fledged PPP program in their ongoing
development of NHDP. GoI's policy change in 2005 necessitated a large scale shift in the method of
contracting for further NHDP works from EPC to PPP basis. As a result NHAI developed a significant
PPP program and the pilot with the Bank was no longer required. Another reason for not going ahead
with this component was that NHAI found the Banks procurement rules too cumbersome for PPP projects
and there were concerns that the program would get delayed. By mid 2008, 5607 km of national highways
had been concessioned on BOT Toll and BOT Annuity.

Institutional Strengthening: National Highway Asset Inventory. The National Highway Asset Inventory
study was deleted from the project due to overlap with planned implementation of Road Information
System (RIS).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Schedule. Due to delays in completion of road construction components, the loan closing date was was
extended twice, first from 12/31/2006 to 12/31/2007, and subsequently to 06/30/2008 resulting in a total
extension of 18 months.

Funding Reallocations/Cancellations

 (a)    US$12.53 million of loan funds were cancelled in May 2006 following the restructuring of the
        project. While the entire component 3 and most of component 2 were to be dropped (cumulative

                                                    3
        savings of US$36.58 million), actual cost of component 1 involving construction had gone up
        (shortfall of US$24.05 million), therefore, after readjustments for the increased costs US$12.53
        million of loan funding was cancelled.

(b)     US$75 million was cancelled in August 2008 and another US$14.35 in October 2008 following
        project closure as NHAI was unable to disburse the funds in the given time period.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Background analysis, project preparation and design. Bank highway projects initiated before the mid-
1990s had suffered, from a series of difficulties, including (a) poor quality at entry; (b) weak institutional
capacities for project management, contract and consultant services administration; (c) inexperience in
the Bank's procurement methods; (d) inadequate inter-agency coordination; (e) inordinate delays in
handing over project sites; (f) weak contractor capabilities and inadequate consultant capacity; (g)
excessive delays due to weak dispute resolution and decision mechanisms and also due to belated
payments to contractors; and (h) lack of awareness and low degree of acceptance toward integration of
environment and social issues in technical design. In cognizance of these issues efforts were made during
project preparation to address these to varying degrees.

        Stronger engineering preparation involving a high degree of readiness for implementation was to
        be achieved prior to loan approval, with all engineering designs completed and bids received.
        However, there were gaps in the due diligence exercised on the designs prepared and contractor
        mobilization prior to land acquisition resulting in many costly delays later.
        Efforts were made to bring in latest techniques and best practices through international
        consultants and contractors. However, the industry level issues and local practices proved a
        deterrent.
        Introduction of supervision consultants, which were expected to mitigate the weak project
        management capacity of the government agency, was not as effective.
        Focus on processes for environmental assessment, stakeholder consultation, land acquisition and
        resettlement, and government clearances. An Environment & Social Development Unit (ESDU)
        was set up within NHAI in this context. State project coordinating committees in Bihar,
        Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh were established to expedite preconstruction activities.
        Emphasis on institutional development of the nascent NHAI. A study on institutional
        development of NHAI, corridor development and PPP were initiated early on and a Project
        Financial Management System (FMS) was developed for NHAI. However, inadequate attention
        was given to the staffing needs of the organization and development of requisite contract
        management and monitoring capability while being a `lean and mean' organization.

Participatory processes.    The participatory process adopted during project preparation and
implementation included formal and informal consultations, public meetings and workshops with key
stakeholders.

        An advisory group of external stakeholders was also formed to periodically review the overall
        highway development program and the project's strategy.
        Stakeholder consultations were held for the first time on land acquisition and compensation
        related matters. NHAI staff, consultants and contractors were sensitized extensively on
        environment & social issues through series of training workshops during project preparation.


                                                      4
        Workshops were conducted with the construction industry to identify and address the issues
        plaguing the sector.
        Project preparation and design was in coordination with other donors, ADB and JBIC.

While the level of consultation initiated in these second generation national highway projects was of a
much higher level than before, they failed to consult with local communities and local authorities at the
stage of the detailed design work necessitating costly revisions of the project design later during project
implementation.

Risks and mitigation measures. A comprehensive list of risks classified into eight groups was explicitly
identified and assessed in the PAD. All risks were rated as moderate except for "delays in procurement
and award of contracts", which was rated as negligible, in light of the strong efforts made to ensure
project readiness during preparation of GTRIP. In the event, the assessment of risks, particularly risks
related to consultant and contractor performance and consequent project delays, proved too optimistic, as
also the risk related to weak commitment to policy and institutional reforms. Deterioration in public
security, putting road workers and their equipment at risk in Bihar and Jharkhand, a risk unforeseen at
project entry, further hampered project works in those states. As events unfolded, the planned mitigation
measures were not successful in preventing recurrence of earlier problems, and dispute resolution
mechanisms proved ineffective in reaching timely settlements. The GTRIP, like TNHP and earlier
highway projects, still suffered from substantial delays.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation of the project received close attention, and substantial support, from the Bank's project
staff. Progress was rated as `satisfactory' initially, but there was growing concern re slow
implementation progress on both physical works and institution building. In the June 2004 ISR the rating
was downgraded to unsatisfactory due to continued limited progress on the highway widening
components (only 27% work progress in 72% of contract period), institutional strengthening components
and lack of progress on the PPP and corridor management and road safety components. The project then
rebounded to a satisfactory rating due to progress on the PPP and institutional front, but subsequently
declined to moderately satisfactory rating for the remaining period (as a result of a change in the Banks
rating format), except for May 2007 when it received a moderately unsatisfactory implementation rating
due to continuing delays in implementation and lack of action by NHAI management. The following
sections outline the key factors affecting project implementation.

Factors Contributing to the Project's Success

(a)     The project benefited from dedicated NHAI project directors in the Project Implementation Units
        (PIUs), despite relatively high turnover of these key officials. Interviews with selected directors
        during ICR preparation showed a generally high level of professionalism, interest in the project,
        and appreciation of the Bank team's experience and technical support.
(b)     The persistent attention, constructive critique, and supportive attitude of Bank staff and
        consultants were important supportive factors.

Factors contributing to the Project's Implementation Problems

The project's main problems were delays in the implementation of physical and institutional components
resulting in significant time and cost overruns. These problems resulted from factors within the control of
NHAI as well as changes in sector developments outside its control.



                                                    5
The factors within NHAI's control were:
(a)     poor design review and evaluation procedures, particularly at the critical stage of the Detailed
        Project Report (DPR), frequent errors which set the stage for subsequent, protracted delays for
        necessary re-design, re-approval, additional land acquisition, tree cutting, utilities relocation, and
        resettlement and PAP rehabilitation. For example in Package 2B, seven new underpasses, a rail
        over bridge and an additional span on another bridge were added. In Package 4C the number of
        culverts increased by 50%, the span length of the canal bridge was changed and the land handed
        over did not match the alignment design and the alignment had to be shifted about 10 meters.1;
(b)     a centralized, hierarchical NHAI decision making system which excessively curtailed the
        authority of either the NHAI Project Director or Construction Supervising Consultant (CSC) to
        approve even minor cost overruns or necessary design variations prepared by the contractors or
        the CSC itself, necessitating constant referrals to NHAI headquarters, where decisions often were
        delayed for prolonged periods awaiting higher level approvals;
(c)     in the case of disputes, an excessive tendency of NHAI and/ or the contractor to reject the
        recommendations of Dispute Resolution Boards, leading to a high frequency of appeals up the
        NHAI chain of command, Arbitration, and even beyond to the Courts. This not only further
        protracted settlement of necessary actions, but also absorbed a disproportionate share of the finite
        managerial and financial capacities of India's contracting and consulting industries as well as
        those of NHAI itself. Serious cashflow problems resulting out of this affected contractors
        performance. The total number of disputes outstanding with the GTRIP contract packages by
        February 2009 were 72, mostly pending at Arbitration or Courts;

                Dispute Cases in GTRIP (as of February 15, 2008)
                                                                      Total        Total Value
                                 DRB      Arbitration    Courts         No             Rs. Mn
                 Total             0               37       35          72              2568.4

(d)        inadequate NHAI staffing to monitor and coordinate with the participating state entities in key
           activities such as land acquisition, tree cutting, relocation of utilities, resettlement and
           rehabilitation. These were one of the major sources of delay during implementation. An inhouse
           study2 found that the average time taken for these activities on the NH2 contracts was 2-3 years;
           the primary reason for delays in land acquisition was poor surveys and faulty LA maps by the
           design consultants.
                                 Average Time Taken in months

                   35                               33                        32
                                         31
                                                               29
                   30
                            25
                   25
                   20
                   15
                   10
                    5
                    0
                            LA         Electric   Telecom    Water        Tree
                                        Poles      Poles     Points      cutting




1
      Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects ­ Lessons Learned (2007)
2
      Quantification of Time Overrun in Pre-Construction Activities of National Highway Packages Funded by World
      Bank and Asian Development Bank (2007)

                                                         6
(e)     the short tenure of NHAI staff, who are there for limited term assignments, not long-term careers,
        limiting institutional as well as personal memory of the staff as to what has proven good, bad, or
        merely acceptable practice, contributing to the protracted decision making processes. At the same
        time, ongoing understaffing at PIUs and key positions at the HQ was a problem area;
(f)     contractor performance issues in many cases driven by inadequate staffing, constant staff
        turnover and gaps in critical positions, such as bridge experts; and
(g)     the low priority accorded to institution building components in the organization and staffing of
        NHAI oriented to road building, not institutional development and policy related issues.

The factors outside of NHAI's control included:

(a)     NHAI's constantly increasing workload due to rapidly expanding responsibility for development
        of the national highway system;
(b)     constraints in India's construction industry re finance, experienced management, skilled
        workforce, and equipment;
(c)     deterioration in law and order in the states of Bihar and Jharkhand during project implementation,
        including disruption of work activities, violent attacks, and kidnappings, exacerbating the
        difficulties in retaining contractor staff on site;
(d)     a political decision by the GOI to impose a further widening of the entire GQ from 4 to 6 lanes
        along existing alignments under BOT concessions or other PPP modality of execution, even
        before the works for 4-laning and arrangements for post-construction Road Safety and Corridor
        Management Units (CMU) previously agreed for the GTRIP project were completed. This
        necessitated adaptation of remaining works in the GTRIP contracts in anticipation of further
        widening, and led to cancellation of the Road Safety and Corridor Management Component of
        GTRIP and the resultant poor road safety situation along the corridor;
(e)     the shift to PPP also led to the dropping of the PPP component with funds being reallocated.
        However, the radical shift in thinking away from public EPC funding and procurement as the
        primary modality for development of the national highways to PPP diverted attention from
        resolution of the problems relative to EPC modalities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. While the outcome indicators for the project were adequate for measuring the achievement of the
physical development objective-- the indicators for the second objective, NHAI's institutional
capabilities to manage road programs, assets, and services, were less effective as they did not capture
many of the important aspects of efficient project delivery and management and user responsiveness.

With the change in the Bank format from output indicators to intermediate outcome indicators (IO), three
of the fourteen output indicators were adopted as IO indicators for measuring the component wise
outcomes; (i) ex poste economic rate of return of project roads, (ii) two new CMUs established, and (iii)
PPP's successfully executed to support large scale BoT projects.

Implementation and Utilization. With the exception of the number of road km being maintained through
CMU contracts, the other three indicators, time savings, vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings, and
accidents were not monitored by NHAI. Since the projects were under construction this made collection
of this data on a regular basis impractical. However, even for key milestones such as midterm review and
project completion, this data had not been collected.

The omission of regular monitoring and up-to-date reporting of road condition and accidents, reflecting
failure to operationalize the Road Information System (a key component of the earlier TNHP project), is a
matter of serious concern. There is urgent need to implement comprehensive physical measurements and

                                                    7
reporting of road condition on a regular basis for all major elements of the national highways, beginning,
as a matter of priority, with the recently upgraded NHDP Phases I and II sections. Modern road asset
management systems require initial baseline data on road conditions as well as close tracking of the
subsequent behavior of those measures over time in order to avoid premature pavement failure and
optimize the balance between routine road maintenance and far more costly periodic pavement
strengthening interventions. If properly implemented, these measures will save India many thousands of
Crores of Rupees over the next decade, money which could be far more productively spent on further
modernization of its still limited national highway networks. In the absence of a proper system of road
condition surveys and timely management reporting, the large investments in NHDP I and II, including
the TNHP and GTRIP projects, must be considered at risk.

The view, that these risks would somehow be avoided by the movement to concession major segments of
the national highways is misguided. Experience with concessions worldwide demonstrates that it is
essential for public authorities to regularly monitor the performance of concessionaires, wherever possible
by quantitative measurements, not only to ensure contractual compliance (particularly during the later
years of the concession period when essential periodic maintenance requires heavy capital outlays), but
also to provide justification to the public for any increases in tolls that may, on occasion, be necessitated.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

The Bank closely monitored the various safeguards measures, and compliance ratings were frequently
adjusted (ranging from S to U and back again) in response to observed conditions, particularly for
involuntary resettlement, environmental management, and occasionally natural habitats issues. Identified
issues were normally resolved quickly, and the Bank's persistent surveillance on these issues should be
credited with substantial improvements that otherwise almost surely would not have taken place.

The project closed with an overall social safeguards rating of moderately satisfactory. By the middle of
2008, the R&R activities were largely complete. Five hundred and ninety-nine hectares of land had been
acquired and all titleholders of land had received compensation except for households that had: (a)
requested higher compensation from the courts; and (b) the claimants whose land ownership was in
dispute. HIV/AIDS initiatives were also successfully launched.

Under GTRIP, instances of borrow areas being developed as water bodies with recreational facilities
(Packages II C, III C), enhancement of religious structures and archeological monuments (Packages IV B,
II B), demonstrates some of such best practices of environmental management by the project. A chronic
problem, however, was the absence of environmental officers on site, and in the final rating at project
closing overall safeguard compliance was lowered to moderately unsatisfactory, due to recurrent failure
of contractors to deploy environmental officers on site, discontinuous and inadequate environmental
management of camps and plant sites, and safety measures during construction.

The specific capacity building measures which were undertaken to strengthen the ESDU at NHAI to
handle land acquisition, resettlement, rehabilitation and environmental issues had attained partial success.
A number of training programs were conducted both at HQ and field level for better implementation of
social and environmental aspects of the projects. The Environmental and Social Management System
developed under the GTRIP to guide NHAI on social and environment aspects has yet to be adopted.




                                                      8
Fiduciary Aspects

Financial Management. Financial management was also closely monitored. It was rated Satisfactory in
the initial years, but the rating subsequently oscillated between S and U in response to Bank observations
and NHAI responses as a result of delayed audit reports, repetitive audit observations in the Entity Audit
Report and the quality of internal audit. NHAI was found to have serious capacity constraints in Financial
Management especially at the PIUs. Significant staffing issues, including low levels of staffing and high
turnover due to organizational policies, has affected the quality of accounting and reporting and the delays
in procurement and implementation of ERP software have not helped.

Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and equipment, consulting services and training
component appears to have taken place in accordance with the Bank guidelines. For civil works,
International Competitive Bidding was the preferred form of procurement, while for most of the
consulting services Quality and Cost Based Selection criteria applied.

Legal Covenants. NHAI complied with the covenants in the project's legal agreements except
submission of an annual report on the condition of NHAI's assets and projected user costs, which may
have been inappropriate given that the network was under construction rendering such surveys
meaningless.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

At loan closing, after two project extensions, 6 out of 7 civil upgrading contacts being funded under the
GTRIP loan had been substantially completed, and the contractor on the 7th contract had also resumed
work with completion of three bridges being the main physical works outstanding, while the original
physical target of 420 km of NH-2 to be widened to four lanes had been achieved.3 However, progress on
the institutional development components was far less advanced.

Road safety and corridor management. In the absence of the Road Safety & Corridor Management
Component originally planned but subsequently cancelled, the arrangements observed by the ICR mission
to meet the interim needs for road maintenance and particularly for traffic management, signage, and
safety appear seriously deficient throughout much of the GTRIP-TNHP corridor. This matter should be
taken up with NHAI management as a matter of high priority. The quality of road pavements and state of
maintenance observed by the ICR mission was notably deficient in several sections, particularly in
sections IVA and IVC.

Road Information System. The RIS software developed under the TNHP project once operationalized
could provide an invaluable tool in managing assets and operations of the national highway network,
pinpointing problems quickly, and, when coupled with other modern tools such as HDM-4, helping find
the most efficient solutions. It is, however, an empty shell in its present form, without the necessary data
updating. It is critical for NHAI to invest in the relatively small cost of regular data collection in order to
reap the much larger benefits of efficient management of such a large road network.

Poverty & Highway Development Study. The socio-economic baseline study constituting the first stage
of the effort to measure the impact of the inter-city highway widening on poverty and the lives of the rural
population was completed. As this loan is now closed and the follow on survey due on project



3
    The ICR prepared by NHAI (11/06/2008) rated 4 sections (IC, IIB, IVC, VB) `substantially completed', two other
    sections (IA, IB), respectively, 97.67% and 95.5% completed, while IVA was only 88.8% completed.

                                                         9
completion takes over a year, funding for the follow-up survey has been budgeted within the ongoing
Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway Project.

Safeguards Management. Although the GTRIP loan is closed, NHAI still must comply with the agreed
EMPs and RAP where work is ongoing. Issues of (i) satisfactory closure of camp sites rehabilitation of
borrow areas and adequate attention to safety measures, (ii) adoption of the Environment & Social
Management Manual, and (iii) impact assessment of the Gautam Budh Sanctuary EMP (now being taken
up under the Allahabad Bypass Project) need to be tended to.

Project Financial Management System. As noted above, procurement and implementation of the
comprehensive ERP financial management system and addressing the serious staffing issues should be
expedited.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The projects objectives continue to be relevant under the new Country Assistance Strategy 2009-12. The
new CAS prioritizes removal of infrastructure bottlenecks to help sustain rapid and inclusive growth;
improve service delivery; focus on innovative public-private partnerships (PPPs); and attention to India's
laggard states. GTRIP addressed all of these priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective 1: Reduce transport constraints on economy and reduce transport costs

With the upgradation of 420 km of highway from two to four lane the project achieved this objective. The
increased capacity of the highway helped reduce congestion and improve traveling speeds resulting in
significant savings in travel time for road users in the Delhi-Kolkata section. The average journey time
reduced from 5 days at the start of the project to two about 3 days at project close, exceeding the three and
a half day target. This was perhaps also the most highly rated benefit of the project by various
beneficiaries during the stakeholder workshop. However, traffic congestion still plagues inter-city drivers
as they enter or exit the major cities and when they cross the many small villages that were not bypassed,
thus reducing the benefit of increased speeds on the inter-city segments. The second indicator of a
reduction in travel cost was not achieved. The related cost of truck transport has increased from a baseline
of Rs.11 per truck-km to Rs.15.6 per truck-km, a much higher cost than the planned target of Rs.9.9 per
truck-km. This can be attributed to the differences in the HDM3 and HDM4 models used at appraisal and
EoP regarding vehicle technology assumptions, and the significant escalation in vehicle prices in recent
years.




                                                     10
                             Road Fatality Rates on the NH2 in state of Uttar Pradesh
                     1600                                                            1231-1406*

                                                                        1097    1140
                     1200
                                                  838-867*                                                 2005
                                    715     741
                       800                                                                                 2006
                                                                                                           2007
                       400


                         0
                                          Fatalities                           Injurie s


                       * December 2007 estimates derived from August 2006-July 2007 estimate and extrapolation


Finally, the road safety situation appears to have deteriorated instead of improving. Fatality rates
increased by 17-21%4 on project roads instead of the target of a 20% decrease (the average fatalities per
km grew from 0.95 per year to 1.11 per year). The fatality rates had increased by 52% on NH2 in the state
of West Bengal between 2005-07, which was not part of the Bank funded projects. Even when
considering fatalities relative to the average daily traffic (ADT), the situation does not improve
significantly. The ADT increased from about 8838 vehicles in 1998 to 12659 vehicles in 2008. For
comparison with available fatality data for 2005-07, even after assuming that only 50% of the 1998-08
traffic growth had occurred by 2005, the fatality rate still shows an increase of 0-3% instead of a decline.
This is an outcome of poor highway design, which tended to divide road side communities without
adequate access, as well as poor traffic management during and after construction. The wider roads have
encouraged faster speeds than may be prudent given the completely random and uncontrolled movement
of animals and pedestrians throughout the roadway. Construction site safety is also a growing concern
given the incidence of accidents such as the one at Sone Bridge on Package 4C.

In terms of the intermediate outcome indicators, the lower achieved ERR of 21% compared to a target of
above 26% is a reflection of erosion of benefits on account of time overruns.

Objective 2: Improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets and service in a
more commercially oriented manner

The achievement of this objective was mixed. NHAI's capacity in managing procurement, social and
environmental issues and private participation was considerably enhanced. However, the road safety
situation as already discussed has become worse. The outcome of 1200 km of national highways under
private maintenance was achieved well before the end of project. By project end some 4304 km of
highways were under maintenance contracts under the CMU. While this outcome was overachieved
manifold, the lack of a systematic approach to maintenance, a non operational RIS, raises doubts about
the institutional capacity for asset management. Poor maintenance is already giving rise to premature
maintenance problems and in some instances to severe potholing along the corridor. Physical
measurements of road conditions of the upgraded GTRIP cum TNHP corridor in May 2008, revealed that
the average International Road Roughness Index (IRI) for the corridor was 3.5 with a minimum of 3.2,
inconsistent with international norms for recently constructed national highway pavements. The large
time and cost overruns being incurred by NHAI suggest weak capacity for managing road programs.
Neither the infrastructure nor its users are well protected currently. The objective of making NHAI `more
accountable and responsive to users', as stated in the PAD was not achieved.


4
    This is based on available data from the state of Uttar Pradesh which constituted 752 km of the roughly 900 km of
    project roads.

                                                                11
The intermediate outcomes were realized. A total of 9 CMUs were created, however, on account of
reversion of 5 CMUs to PIUs for taking up the six laning works only 4 remain. Of course, the target of
two CMUs, in addition to the two established under TNHP, was achieved. Finally, NHAI was
implementing a massive PPP program following the GoI policy change, 86 projects covering over 5000
km of road had been concessioned by project close. Of course the project did not in anyway influence this
outcome. Annex 2 includes the status of all 14 output indicators.

Overall, the achievement of this PDO is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

At the time of appraisal the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for each of the sections ranged from
17% to 45%, with an overall average of 26%. It is noteworthy that sensitivity analyses in the PAD also
presented estimates of the impact of potential delays in project completion of one or two years, indicating
that the EIRR would be reduced to 23% or 20%, respectively, which proved prescient. A thorough post-
construction benefit-cost analysis 5 resulted in EIRRs ranging from 12.6% to 29.3%, with the overall
average EIRR for all stretches of 21%, lower than the appraisal estimate, but managing to meet the
threshold of 12%. The ex post analysis found that, while the total project costs for GTRIP (in constant
price terms), were 16.6% lower than the PAD estimates this factor was more than offset by delays in
project completion, and lower traffic growth than expected (due in part to the existence of toll-free
alternative routes). Interestingly, traffic growth rates and associated EIRRs were higher for the sections
east from Varanasi, which was likely due to the absence of good alternative toll-free routes. Annex 3
outlines the key assumptions in the economic analysis. The lower costs than PAD estimates were mainly
an outcome of lower costs on non civil works components such as supervision consultancy and LA and
R&R. Also, cost estimates tended to be incomplete owing to improper tracking of components such as
NHAI's operational costs, environmental mitigation etc. Finally, given the large number of outstanding
disputes against NHAI, totaling roughly US$57 million in value it is likely that the project costs have
been underestimated.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The evaluation of project takes account of relevance, efficiency and achievement of objectives. Sections
3.1 and 3.3, respectively, show that the project is still relevant to the CAS and has broadly met the
efficiency criteria for a satisfactory outcome. Although, the project substantially met its primary physical
target of 420 km of road strengthening and widening (minus three relatively minor bridges), project
delays necessitated extensions totaling 18 months and significantly reduced net economic benefits.

While GTRIP's performance in meeting the targets for its physical objective was adequately met,
achievement of its institutional objectives was less than satisfactory. On the positive side, the length of
the overall national highways network under contract maintenance at project close was almost 4 times the
target. However, the deteriorating quality of the NH-2 corridor and the very serious road safety and traffic
management situation observed by the various Bank Missions and corroborated by available data suggest
that the organizational capacity for asset management is still weak. The lack of data with NHAI for



5
 Consulting Engineering Services (India) Ltd, Post Economic Analysis for Implementation Completion Report for
Agra to Barwa Adda Section of NH-2 (August 2008).

                                                      12
monitoring these critical aspects and a non operational Road Information System is extremely worrisome.
Given that institutional objectives have far wider ramifications for the national highway network, the
overall outcome of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The socio-economic baseline survey has established a rigorous new model for socio-economic impact
studies that, if properly followed up in repeat surveys to capture the effects of the road widening, is likely
to prove a seminal work for future generations. A brief synopsis is given at Annex 5.

3.6 Summary of Findings of the Stakeholder Workshop

Following project close, a Stakeholder Workshop was held in Varanasi on October 17, 2008. The
Workshop was well attended with a fairly broad cross-section of the various stakeholder groups, including
PAPs living near the highway, NGOs, industry representatives, and transport operators, as well as the
highway provider groups, particularly construction supervision consultants, contractors, NHAI staff, and
MORTH. The three key agenda issues discussed are summarized below. A detailed report on the
workshop is given at Annex 6.

Agenda Item 1: How has the road widening affected long-distance travel and daily life alongside the
road and within a few kilometers of the road?

On balance, the issues notwithstanding, the overall tone of both those living alongside and transporters
traveling the full distance of the GTRIP highway was positive, although some were still apprehensive as
to potential adverse effects. The main benefits identified included the huge savings in inter-city travel
time (even 50% and more) as a result of the new highway. Problems identified largely involved poor asset
management including inadequate signage, serious road safety issues, poor maintenance of the highways,
poor traffic management.

Agenda Items 2&3: Project Preparation & Implementation: Challenges & Lessons

The deficiency in quality of the detailed engineering designs was identified as a serious issue. The
primary reasons for this were the unreasonable timeframes provided for preparation, poor surveys and
inadequate consultations with various stakeholders.

Time delays were a serious problem in GTRIP, as in TNHP
Major causes

        Delays most commonly emanated from poor quality DPRs, starting with inadequate surveys.
        Slow decision making by NHAI in approving necessary design changes.
        Slow action by third parties responsible for land clearance /RoB clearances.
        High turnover and a shortage of qualified engineering staff due to competition from higher paying
        markets.
        Institutional weaknesses that provide powerful incentives for delay in many contexts where
        delays are more profitable for individual participants.




                                                     13
Potential solutions

        NHAI officials argued that most, if not all, problems experienced with implementation of the
        GTRIP project will be avoided by conversion of future projects to BOT or other forms of PPP.
        Only for projects which fail to attract bids from prospective concessionaires after two
        unsuccessful tenders as PPP will EPC procurement be engaged.
        Where EPC is used, more time for preparation of the DPR will also be provided.
        Appointment of the Supervision Engineer will be effected at an earlier point and an overlap with
        the Design Engineer will be provided.
        For necessary ROW/ROB clearances, NHAI will engage earlier with state forestry departments,
        utility companies, and Indian Railways as appropriate.
        Wherever feasible, the Contractor will be employed to deal with the clearance under supervision
        of the responsible authority.
        Where disputes arise, NHAI is now beginning to honor awards of Dispute Resolution Boards as a
        general rule. However, Contractors generally do not accept DRB decisions which do not favor
        them.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The evaluation of risk to development outcome has taken into account the sustainability of the
investments in highway upgrading and the institutional development of NHAI as envisioned at project
appraisal. NHAI has set up CMUs as planned. The Authority has more O&M contracts with the private
sector than envisioned. However, the award of these contracts takes place on an ad-hoc basis in the
absence of a comprehensive maintenance strategy. The serious road safety situation requires immediate
institutional attention.

Also, NHAI is understaffed, especially for managing pre-construction activities, reviewing designs, and it
suffers notably from the absence of permanent/ long term staff who normally provide an important
component of institutional memory in such organizations. Because of the increasing volume of PPP
contracts in its portfolio, NHAI needs a comprehensive training program aligned to this development,
most notably in the areas of financial management, risk analysis, toll operations and maintenance. In
particular, its monitoring and evaluation and contract management capability will need to be strengthened.
Given the uncertainties surrounding these aspects, the ICR has rated the risk to development outcome as
substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance at preparation stage with regard to technical, economic and financial analysis, as
well as the design of safeguards was satisfactory. The project's design reflected lessons learned in
previous projects in India and other countries. However, it appears that Bank staff-- who were familiar
with international best practices and developmental experience in countries such as China, Malaysia,
Thailand, Chile, and Brazil-- underestimated the difficulties to be overcome, and the time necessary, to
develop a modern road construction industry in the Indian context, and, at the same time, overestimated
the incentives that international consultants and contractors would have to engage with these
circumstances and thus hasten progress.


                                                   14
Nor did the implementation framework give sufficient attention to staffing needs in order for NHAI to
fulfill its mandate. Furthermore, the two-year timeline in the PAD's action plan for NHAI's
transformation was unrealistic. In the end, the planned mitigation measures were ineffective in preventing
recurrence of earlier problems. The GTRIP, like TNHP and earlier highway projects in the mid nineties,
still suffered from substantial delays. Therefore the ICR has rated quality at entry as moderately
unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank supervised the project with a multi-disciplinary team that had an adequate skill mix (Annex 4).
The team regularly raised issues with the management, proactively tackled financial management issues
and diligently monitored safeguards. The project team also showed flexibility in restructuring the project,
responding to NHAI's changing needs. However the team could have given greater attention to the
project's institutional development components, and the follow up regarding data for monitoring and
evaluation was weak, though it should be noted that poorly designed indicators (condition of the NHAI
network as noted above) made it difficult to implement. Taking account of strengths and shortcomings,
the ICR has rated overall Bank performance in project supervision as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall ratings of moderately unsatisfactory for quality at entry and moderately satisfactory for
supervision, yield an overall Bank performance rating of moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's main contribution to the project was the development of a sector framework
supportive of NHAI's development and the encouragement of the private sector to participate in the
development of the national highway system. Prior to the project, the Cabinet approved the
implementation of the NHDP by NHAI and the national cess on fuel largely earmarked to fund NHDP
development. However, the Government could have done more to improve inter-agency co-ordination to
prevent project delays and support the institutional development of NHAI. Also, MoSRTH was slow in
taking forward the recommendations of the studies under their purview in particular the implementation
of the Road Safety Policy and the transport efficiency study resulting in the considerably reduced net
benefits of the project corridors. The restructuring recently proposed (March 2008), by the GOI Inter
Ministerial Committee, Restructuring the National Highway Authority of India (hereafter cited `IMC
Report'), offers promise of substantial improvements in the performance of NHAI in the future, but, its
publication came too late to affect GTRIP project outcomes. On balance, the ICR has accordingly rated
Government performance as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

NHAI demonstrated a strong commitment to the project during its preparation. The Authority mobilized
consultants for feasibility and engineering studies as well as preliminary studies on institutional
development. NHAI also prepared all of the construction packages and bid documents for the highway-

                                                    15
upgrading component. They also set up a dedicated Environment & Social Development Unit within
NHAI to give priority attention to safeguard issues. During project implementation, NHAI showed
improvement in financial management and safeguards performance. However, NHAI did not ensure
proper coordination of the design consultants, nor the various state-led pre-construction activities.
Moreover, NHAI refused to delegate normal authority to settle design variations and other routine
administrative matters to their Project Directors and Supervision consultants on the project site, or accept
the recommendations of properly constituted Dispute Resolution Boards, while decision making in NHAI
headquarters caused countless delays.

NHAI also gave relatively little attention to the implementation and timely completion of the project's
institutional development components and to the M&E framework. Of critical importance, NHAI has so
far given minimal attention to establishing a proper data base necessary for a modern asset management
system. The pavement deteriorations observed in some sections and little attention to the poor road safety
situation are also serious matters. The ICR has rated overall performance moderately unsatisfactory
because the shortcomings in performance during project implementation were considered significant.
They are remediable with improved management and strengthened governance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Balancing all factors ­ but with particular weight to the performance of NHAI, which, as executing
agency, was in the primary position of authority and carried the primary responsibility ­ the ICR has rated
overall Borrower performance as moderately unsatisfactory, calling attention to the fact that much of the
opportunity to create a new world-class leader for highway infrastructure development and management
in India was missed. Nor did their implementation `meet user's expectations in the most time bound and
cost effective manner' in compliance with the mandate 6 handed to NHAI by the Inter Ministerial
Committee.

6. Lessons Learned

Nexus of issues leading to time and cost overruns and substandard works. The national highway
projects, as many other highway projects, are afflicted by a complex web of issues that greatly
exacerbates project delays and costs, and subverts quality, in a manner inconsistent with the public
interest. The key issues plaguing the sector (see Fig. below) involve:

          Pre-construction Delays. Interagency coordination in preconstruction activities presents a
          challenge with long delays in handing over of encumbrance free land to contractors.
          Quality of Engineering Design. Poor quality Detailed Project Reports (DPR) necessitate costly
          revisions, in alignment and therefore land acquisition requirements, detailed designs, bill of
          quantities etc. These were often a result of poor quality of surveys, outdated revenue maps and
          data, lack of design standards. On the other hand, the excessive price competition within the
          industry results in low bids that are unsustainable leading to substandard work. This price
          competition crowds out quality candidates including international players. The inadequate time
          given for delivery further adds to the problem and the low wage levels in the sector encourages
          rent seeking behavior.
          Bureaucratic Delays in Approvals. Design changes and variation orders necessitate approvals
          and clearances from one or more individuals, a situation further exacerbated by the unduly



6
    IMC Report, NHAI vision statement, p 6.

                                                    16
          centralized decision making system within NHAI. Equally, this presents opportunities for rent
          seeking.
          Dispute Resolution & Claims Settlement. All these in turn trigger frequent disputes and claims.
          However, with the break down of the normal dispute resolution framework, most disputes are
          routinely escalated to arbitration, and often beyond to the court system, not achieving the
          intended purpose of speeding up settlements and avoiding costly delays.
          Contractor/Consultant non-performance. Finally, cash-flow problems on account of over
          commitment by vendors, price undercutting, overly long dispute/claim settlement periods,
          weaknesses in contract management and lack of accountability lead to contractor as well as
          supervision consultant non performance resulting in delays to the projects.


                  Time & Cost Overruns and Substandard Delivery:
                  Nexus of Issues
                 NHAI Specific Issues
                 · Staffing         · Inhouse     · Centralized     · All disputes    · Contract
                 · Coordination       Design        decision making escalated to        management
                   with state         review      · Understaffing     courts including capacity
                   agencies           capacity                        by NHAI         · Monitoring systems

                                                                                                                Cost
                                          Poor
                                                                                           Poor               Overruns /
                     Pre-
                     construction         Quality
                                                            Clearances:
                                                             Designs,
                                                                            Dispute
                                                                                           Contractor/
                                                                                           Consultant          Delays
                     Delays               Designs
                                                             Variations
                                                                            Resolution     Perfor-              Poor
                                                                                           mance
                                                                                                               Quality
                                                                                                               Works
                 External Issues
                 · Lack of formal   · Excessive price                · Weak Dispute   · Contractor Cashflow
                   GoI-State          competition among                Resultion        problems /
                   coordination       consultants                      Mechansims       overextended
                   arrangements     · Lack of design                                  · Professional
                   i.e. MoUs          standards, outdated                               certification
                                      technologies/ data




While many of these issues are sectoral and require an industry level treatment, the weaknesses in
NHAI's internal systems and capacities for project management made it difficult for them to deal with the
issues effectively. Some of the key interventions which could help improve the situation include:

          NHAI must have at least 50% of the land acquired and encumbrance free prior to contract award7.
          It should also consider entering into long term arrangements with state governments at program
          rather than project level.
          Creation of a strong Design Review capability8 within NHAI is critical to stalling the multiple
          delays which are locked in early on as a result of flawed DPRs. This in-house capability would
          allow for DPR proof checks, ensure quality designs from consultants as also concessionaires. It
          could also help develop design standards for national highways and ensure that the national
          highways exhibit consistency of design. Guidelines for DPRs specifying minimum time for
          preparation and use of latest technologies in preparation should be issued.
          In retrospect, Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method may not have been the best
          choice of competitive procurement of engineering consultants, especially in the context of a


7
    Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects ­ Lessons Learned (2007); Indian Road
    Construction Industry Study: Capacity Issues, Constraints & Recommendations (2007).
8
    Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects ­ Lessons Learned (2007)

                                                                           17
          highly competitive industry environment. Therefore, the procurement for engineering design and
          supervision contracts should be considered based on quality preferably with a fixed budget to
          attract the best qualified firms. This approach could be tested through pilots on some highway
          projects.
          An overlap in the work of the Design and Supervision teams, so that the latter would have the
          opportunity to review, identify, and resolve any possible errors in surveying, land clearance,
          design, or other issues at an early stage, should be considered. Going further, after selection of
          the contractor and issue of the Letter of Award but prior to issue of notice to commence the works,
          all four parties (Design Engineer, Supervision Engineer, Contractor, and NHAI Project Director)
          could be required to conduct a joint review of the alignment and agree any necessary changes.
          NHAI must review its workflow patterns with the objective of streamlining them for speedier
          decision making and improved project delivery. The current practice of limited flexibility to
          Project Directors and Supervision Consultants tends to be counterproductive. Strict timelines
          must be observed for providing approvals.
          Contract enforcement and dispute resolution requires strengthening. NHAI must, and has
          already initiated the process of honoring decisions of the process until they are reversed.
          Strong project monitoring systems and capabilities will have to be invested in order to improve
          overall program efficiency and performance. Given the high levels of outsourcing within NHAI,
          the large size of the program it is responsible for delivering and the concerns regarding
          contractors and consultants, it is critical for the organization to develop a performance
          monitoring system9 to help track the performance of various vendors (including concessionaires)
          across multiple criteria (time, cost, quality etc.), provide a transparent basis for benchmarking and
          assist in future procurement decisions. While some work was done on this as part of the first
          Bank loan the initiative was never implemented. Tools such as the road information system and
          ERP, preferably with inter linkages, will also be indispensable in this regard. The RIS is
          important for not only monitoring the quality of the highways but also planning for future
          maintenance and upgradation needs.
          Finally, there is a strong need for NHAI to align its staffing requirements (strength and profile)
          with the increase in the size of its work program and the shift to PPP modality. Understaffing at
          PIUs, Finance, ESDU is affecting performance. Second, it should focus on developing a cadre of
          permanent staff, targeting at least 50% of staff strength as suggested by the IMC Report.

Some of these initiatives have already been initiated by the Bank team. Going forward, whether the
contracting modality is EPC or PPP, NHAI will need to address these concerns. Equally, MoSRTH will
need to give serious attention to these issues constraining the road sector.

A more focused approach to Technical Assistance: Across the two Bank projects with NHAI there
were roughly 18 studies being carried out across a wide spectrum of areas both within and outside
NHAI's purview. While the areas being studied were all very pertinent from the perspective of a fledgling
road agency and rapidly evolving sector, perhaps some prioritization and a more focused approach may
have yielded better results. Several studies regarding sector issues or policy matters such as cross border
efficiency, road safety policy, construction industry, primarily targeted at MoSRTH could have been
better addressed through a direct TA with the line ministry. In the end, with so many disparate activities
to work on, it seems that NHAI and even the task team struggled to get them completed.




9
    Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects ­ Lessons Learned (2007)

                                                       18
Considering Alternative Approaches to Road Information Systems: The experience with RIS in
NHAI, as in many other states in India has by and large been disappointing. The common complaint is the
onerous data requirements. Without data or regular updation the system becomes an empty shell of little
use for asset planning. When trying to develop planning capability within road agencies which have
hitherto relied on a more ad hoc system, transplanting state of the art RIS systems directly from developed
countries is perhaps not the best approach. The Bank should consider developing more basic systems
(with some reconsideration to `essential' vs `desirable' data categories, frequency, level of accuracy),
explore simpler collection mechanisms which ride on existing frameworks such as field offices, can be
quickly developed and their utility demonstrated so as to ensure their sustainability. Once user demand
has been created, system sophistication can gradually be improved. Finally, the RIS cannot be left to be
developed at middle to lower levels of the organization, a champion from among senior management is
critical for its survival.

Prioritizing Road Safety: The poor road safety situation on the national highways requires urgent
attention. There is a real concern that the GoI's decision to convert the GQ from 4-lane to 6-lane is
fraught with design difficulties and much greater gains are possible from a new 4-laned access controlled
system at selected high traffic sections of the corridor 10 . Since the highways pass through towns,
habitations and built up area there are significant adverse safety implications. Inadequate public
consultations at the design stage have led to communities being divided, unrestricted pedestrian/ vehicle
crossings, spacing of median cuts such that it encourages movement of traffic in the wrong direction. Poor
signage and lack of signals at junctions are additional issues. The national level initiative to drive the road
safety agenda is now overdue. The Road Safety Policy developed under the earlier project has been
adopted by GoI, however its implementation has been pending the enactment of the requisite legislation.
NHAI as the national road agency must exhibit strong commitment towards building and managing safe
highways. The constitution of a Road Safety Cell within NHAI is a positive development. The cell should
take leadership for giving priority to road safety in all phases, from planning through design, construction
and operation. Some initiatives that should be adopted include: (i) develop and adopt engineering designs
incorporating road safety aspects; (ii) institutionalize public consultations; (iii) safety audits instituted at
various stages; (iv) contractors held responsible for developing and following a traffic management plan
at worksites as also worker safety; (v) partner with state governments to ensure enforcement and public
education; (vi) emergency medical services (already initiated); and (vii) regular monitoring of accident
statistics including for corridors under construction.




10
     Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects ­ Lessons Learned (2007)

                                                       19
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (Revised)

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
             Components
                                             (USD millions)         (USD millions)           Appraisal
1. Highway Upgrading                                 618.08               694.44                 112.4
2. Private Sector Development                          25.50                 0                     0.0
3. Road Safety & Corridor Management
                                                      18.20                  0.22                  1.2
Works
4. Institutional Strengthening                        17.62                 19.03                108.0
                      Total Baseline Cost            679.43                713.69                105.0
Physical Contingencies                                29.85                  0                     0
Price Contingencies                                   40.83                  0                     0
                      Total Project Costs            750.11                713.69                 95.1
Front-end fee PPF                                      0
Front-end fee IBRD                                     5.89                  5.89                100
              Total Financing Required               756.00                719.58                 95.2


(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                               Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate
                                                financing                                    Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                         167.00         232.48        139.21%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                  589.00            487.1         82.70%
and Development




                                                       20
                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators                     Actual Achievement
1. Cost effective delivery   1.1 Ex post ERRs of the 420 km        Ex post ERR of project roads was 21%, below
of increased traffic         project roads are on average above    estimated levels.
capacity and improved        26%.
quality of national
highways
                             1.2 All civil work contracts          Civil works incurred significant cost and time
                             delivered to time, budget, cost and   overruns and poor safety record.
                             safety constraints.
                             1.3 100% delivery of entitlements     RAP was satisfactorily delivered although
                             to PAFs and restoration of            with some delays.
                             common property resources as and
                             when planned in RAP
                             1.4 All EMPs carried out in           EMP implementation was marginally
                             accordance with contract clauses.     unsatisfactory (construction safety and
                                                                   closure of camp site/ plant site, etc.)
                             1.5 Level of users' satisfaction      User satisfaction improved
                             with road infrastructure on project
                             roads increased.
2. Improved road safety,     2.1 Safety audit and hazardous        This component was dropped owing to
maintenance and              location improvement works            decision to six-lane the GQ. Safety audits
management of national       conducted on selected sections of     were conducted but the ATMS which was to
highways                     NHDP network.                         be implemented on 3 sections was finally not
                                                                   taken up.
                             2.2 A comprehensive road safety       The draft Road Safety Policy prepared under
                             action plan implemented on a pilot    TNHP recommended the setting up of a
                             basis.                                National Road Safety Agency/ Board, and the
                                                                   enactment of a National Road Safety &
                                                                   Traffic Management Act. The Board has been
                                                                   established. The draft Act is currently being
                                                                   reviewed by the Government. Upon
                                                                   enactment, the Board can prepare and
                                                                   implement action plans whether through
                                                                   NHAI or state PWDs. As a result, the Road
                                                                   Safety Action plan was not fully implemented
                                                                   under this project.
                             2.3 Two new CMUs established by       Seven new CMUs were established, but five
                             MTR.                                  of these have been reverted to PIU for taking
                                                                   up further widening. Four CMUs exist at
                                                                   present.
3. Expanded public-          Public-private partnership            This component was dropped from the loan
private partnership in       successfully executed to support      during a project restructuring in December
promoting private            large scale (over 50 km) BOT          2006, as NHAI already had a full fledged PPP
investment on large BOT      projects                              program in their ongoing development
projects                                                           program.
4. Improved institutional    4.1 All technical assistance in       Partially achieved; National Highway Asset
capacity in social and       effect;                               inventory study cancelled; Post project survey
environmental aspects,                                             of Poverty & Highway Development Study to
road safety, corridor                                              be taken up under LMNHP; Gautam Budh
management, public-                                                sanctuary impact assessment to be taken up
private partnership and                                            under ABP
managing traffic
efficiency.

                                                        21
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance Indicators                       Actual Achievement
                          4.2 NHAI HQ and field office staff     Staff trained through own resources;
                          trained;

                          4.3 Options to eliminate cross-state   Study completed; Dialogue yet to be initiated
                          border freight delays analyzed and     by MoSRTH.
                          policy dialogue with relevant states
                          initiated;

                          4.4 Over 120,000 trees planted by      Not achieved; Trees not planted owing to
                          MTR and over 200,000 trees             policy decision on six laning of the project
                          planted by EOP;                        road;

                          4.5 Over 70% tree survival rate        Not achieved as 4.4 was not implemented
                          achieved by EOP.




                                                    22
                                  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                     (including assumptions in the analysis)

A. Summary of Results

                       Category                               Appraisal                        ICR
                                                             US$ million                    US$ million
Benefits                                                Economic    Financial         Economic       Financial
                                                          1461         1623             821             912
Reduced road user and maintenance costs
Costs                                                      553            614              544             604

Road construction, land acquisition and
resettlement, utility relocation and future
maintenance
Net Benefits                                               908           1009              277            307
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                              25.9          25.9              21.0           21.0



B. Assumptions

            Category                              Appraisal                                       ICR
                                                     General
Highway Lifespan
--Asphalt                             20 years                             20 years
--Cement                              30 years                             30 years
Scrap value at end of project life    20 % of costs                        20 % of costs
Discount Rate for Calculating         12 %                                 12 %
Net Present Value
Conversion factor from financial      0.9                                  0.9
costs to economic costs
                                       Road, vehicle, and traffic specifications
Basis of road design                  Current levels of truck               Current levels of truck overloading is
                                      overloading11                         assumed on the basis of DPR.
Road condition                        Without project case: maintained      Without project case: maintained every
                                      every five years but not improved     five years but not improved for the
                                      for the evaluation period.            evaluation period.
                                      With project case: Pavement           With project case: Functional overlay
                                      strengthened every 10 years in        was scheduled in the 5th and 15th years,
                                      addition to regular maintenance       while structural overlay was scheduled
                                                                            in the 10th and 20th years after
                                                                            construction.
Impact of road congestion             Incorporated in the HDM-3 model. Incorporated in the HDM-4 model. The
                                      The PAD states that " No              ICR states that " No disruptive effect
                                      disruptive effect was assumed for     was assumed for road traffic during the




                                                         23
            Category                             Appraisal                                    ICR
                                   road traffic during the years of        years of project implementation, as by
                                   project implementation, as by           design the highway widening work will
                                   design the highway widening work        take place aside the existing right-of-
                                   will take place aside the existing      way."
                                   right-of-way."
Base year traffic levels           Most recent traffic counts at time      Base year 1998 traffic is taken from
                                   of appraisal, verified through field    previous DPRs whereas for 2008, from
                                   inspection                              traffic counts conducted in 2008 for each
                                                                           package
Traffic growth rates               Estimated for each road package         Estimated for each package based on the
                                   based on estimates of growth in         compound average growth rate from
                                   population and per capita income        1998 to 2008 and adopted for this
                                   in the area served                      period. From 2008 onwards a suitable
                                                                           growth rate has been adopted.
Income (total GDP) elasticities    Passenger vehicle traffic: 1.8-2.0      Trend growth method was used.
of traffic demand                  Freight vehicle traffic: 1.0-1.25

Generated traffic (for the first   Price elasticity: 0.2                   -
year after road completion)        Road user benefits: 50 % of those
                                   accruing to normal traffic
                                                       Costs
Base cost estimation               Bill of Quantities developed by         Actual costs incurred during the
                                   consultants for 420 km. of roads,       implementation obtained from respective
                                   for which preliminary design was        PIUs which includes costs of
                                   completed. Included costs of            construction, supervision, land
                                   construction, supervision, land         acquisition, resettlement and utility
                                   acquisition, resettlement and utility   relocation.
                                   relocation.                             Unit cost per km. of road: US$1.7
                                                                           million
                                   Unit cost per km. of road: US$1.2
                                   million
                                   (Included substantial road-
                                   widening and shoulder
                                   reconstruction).
Maintenance costs                  Based on costs resulting from a         Based on the prevailing NHAI
                                   Road Maintenance study                  guidelines.
                                                      Benefits
General                            Calculated using the HDM-3              Calculated using the HDM-4 model
                                   model
Savings in road user costs         (1) Reduced vehicle operating           1. Reduced vehicle operating costs
                                         costs (VOCs) calculated per         (VOCs) calculated per vehicle
                                         vehicle type based on a Road        type based on a Road User Cost
                                         User Cost Study of 1991              Study of 1991 updated to 2000 using
                                         updated to 2000.                    HDM-4 Model.
                                   (2) Reduced passenger travel time       2. Reduced passenger travel time
                                         based on per capita income of        based on per capita income of
                                         average passengers, by vehicle       average passengers, by vehicle
                                         type.                                type using HDM-4 Model
                                   (3) Reduced cargo travel time, with     3. Reduced cargo travel time, with time
                                       time value based on the Road          value based on the Road User Cost
                                       User Cost Study cited above.          Study cited above using HDM-4
                                                                             Model.
Savings in maintenance costs                                               Based on the prevailing NHAI
                                                                           guidelines.


                                                       24
            Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
 A. K. Swaminathan            Highway Engineer                   SASIN    Highway Engineer
 Anil Bhandari                Highways Adviser                   SASIN    Institutional Strengthening
 Anil H. Somani               Environmental Specialist           EASES    Environnent
 D. C. Mishra                 Procurement Specialist             SARPS    Procurement
Douglas Gray                  Program Assistant                  SASIN
Guang Zhe Chen                Transport Economist                SASIN
Irene Christy                 Program Assistant                  SASIN
Manvinder Mamak               Financial Management Specialist    SARFM    Financial Management
Mridula Singh                 Social & Resettlement Specialist   SASSD    Social and Resettlement
N. Raman                      Procurement Specialist             SARPS    Procurement
N. S. Srinivas                Team Assistant                     SASIN
Piers Vickers                 Transport Specialist               SASIN
Rajat Narula                  Financial Management Specialist    SARFM    Financial Management
Reidar Kvam                   Social & Resettlement Specialist   SASSD    Social and Resettlement
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao       Technical Specialist               SASIN    Economic Analysis
Sangeeta Anand                Team Assistant                     SASIN
Sonia Kapoor                  Environmental Specialist           SASEN    Environment
Stein Lundebye                Sr. Transport Specialist           SASIN    Road Safety
Zhi Liu                       Transport Economist                SASIN    Task Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
Arnab Bandyopadhyay           Sr. Transport. Engr.               SASDT
Debabrata Chakraborti         Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS
G. George Tharakan            Lead Transport Specialist          SASDT
Gaurav D. Joshi               Environmental Spec.                SASDI
Isabel Chatterton             Senior Infrastructure Specialist   CSFSD
Manmohan Singh Bajaj          Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS
Mridula Singh                 Senior Social Development Spec     SASDI
Nupur Gupta                   Transport Specialist               SASDT
Parthapriya Ghosh             E T Consultant                     SASDI
Piers Antony Vickers          Sr. Transport. Spec.               SASDE
Priya Goel                    Sr. Financial Mgmt Specialist      SARFM
Rajesh Bahadur Singh Dongol   Program Assistant                  SASDO
Rajesh Rohatgi                Transport Specialist               SASDT
Ritu Sharma                   Program Assistant                  SASDO
Sally L. Burningham           Sr. Transport Spec.                 EASIS
Sonia Chand Sandhu            Sr Environmental Spec.             SASDI
Sujit Das                     Sr. Transport Engr.                SASDT
Suneeta Singh                 Consultant                         SASHD
Tapas Paul                    Sr. Environmental Spec.            SASDI
Tawia Addo-Ashong             Sr. Transport Spec.                SASDT
Venkata Rao Bayana            E T Consultant                     SASDI

                                                 25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including travel
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                 and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                  54                           155.93
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:        54                           155.93
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                  30                           104.13
  FY03                                  24                            79.44
  FY04                                  22                            83.41
  FY05                                  31                           126.33
  FY06                                  27                            92.43
  FY07                                  33                            81.16
  FY08                                  21                            73.27
  FY09                                   2                             0.00
                          Total:       190                           640.17




                                             26
           Annex 5. Socio-economic Impact of National Highway on Rural Population


An important feature of the GTRIP project was the first stage of a major socio-economic study of
the impact of the inter-city highway on poverty and the lives of the rural population more
generally within a 10-km zone of influence, as compared with control zones 2 km beyond the
zone of influence on each side of the highway, comprising a linear band extending along NH2
between Agra and Dhanbad for a distance of 995 km spanning the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar,
and Jharkand. The study has already established a theoretical framework and a rigorous
methodology for empirical validation that promises a new landmark in socio-economic impact
studies.

The baseline survey was completed in 2003, and the study should be repeated first after one or
two years have passed since completion of 4-laning and at least once more at a later date to
capture longer term adjustments to the road enhancements.

The baseline survey, encompassed a carefully selected sample of 3200 households in 200
villages (out of 1697 villages in the zone). By comparing status of those living within the
hypothesized 10-km zone of influence with those living up to 2-km beyond on either side, the
baseline survey by itself offers considerable insights into the impacts of the old two-lane NH-2
on the lives of the roadside inhabitants, as illustrated by the following brief excerpt:

       "The results clearly suggest proximity to NH-2 has a significant relationship with (i)
       incidence of poverty (proportion of poor households); (ii) transport and mobility (per
       capita trip rate, per capita trip rate for work, and per capita trip rate involving travel on
       NH2); (iii) extent of income and employment in non-farm activities (share of income
       from self-employment in non-agricultural activities and proportion of income and
       proportion of non-agricultural workers in the total working household members); (iv)
       asset holding (proportion of landless households); and (v) attitudinal responses
       (proportion of households which rate themselves poor or very poor and proportion of
       households which expect that the employment situation will improve after 4-laning of
       NH-2)...

       The results confirm that proximity to NH-2 would help a poor rural household by giving
       its members a greater scope for employment thereby raising its income level, improving
       its well-being and ameliorating its poverty. These beneficial effects result primarily due
       to the fact that proximity to NH2 would enhance the mobility of the rural poor for every
       purpose ­ be it access to the job market, to the market for sale and purchase, to the health
       centres, or to the educational institutions. These positive results gain more significance
       because the study area covers some of the poorest districts of rural India." xxxix, Socio-
       economic Impact of National Highway on Rural Population (Asian Institute of Transport
       Development, New Delhi, 2003).




                                                27
                           Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                                    Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
                                   Summary of the Stakeholder Workshop
                                       Hotel Ramada Plaza, Varanasi
                                              17 October 2008

The Workshop was in fact well attended with 59 registered attendants in addition to the 8-member World
Bank Mission (Attachment 2), representing a fairly broad cross-section 12 of the various stakeholder
groups. As planned, formal presentations were kept to a minimum, and there was a lively discussion
throughout the day, which was not quelled till well past the scheduled closing of 4:30 PM.

Opening Remarks

Mr. Rajesh Rohatgi first introduced Mr. H.C. Arora, NHAI Chief General Manager as Chairman of the
Workshop, and then Dr. Clell Harral, who briefly outlined the purpose and structure of the meeting.
NHAI General Manager, Mr. LP Padhy, then made a presentation including many photographs providing
an overview of the NHDP program in general and the Grand Trunk Road Improvement (GTRIP) Project
in particular.

The floor was then opened to discussion, with the highway user and Project Affected Persons (PAP)
groups invited to speak first on the on the key question13:

I. How has the road widening affected long-distance travel and daily life alongside the road and
within a few kilometers of the road?

The lively discussion that ensued may be summarized by speaker groups in the order it occurred as
follows:

1) Varanasi Transport Association (both local and long distance operators)

Negative factors and further needed improvements
       Traffic signs and signals are inadequate. No informative and cautionary signs and traffic signals
       could be provided in certain junctions.
       Overloading a major issue not being given due attention by local authorities despite Supreme
       Court ruling. Accidents one of the main fallouts of overloading.



12
      The participant grouping was as follows: 9 PAPs, 3 R&R assistants, 3 NGOs, 3 transport operators, 1
     Contractor's representative, 20 Supervising Engineers, 13 NHAI staff, 1 MORTH representative, 1 local
     government, and 4 whse affiliation was not identified, in addition to the 8 members of the Bank mission. The
     primary omission in the Workshop per se was the absence of Design Engineers, and the presence of only 1
     Contractor's representative, but several of these groups were met during the GTRIP, TNHP, and ABP road
     inspections and subsequently.

13
     This discussion was conducted largely in Hindi, led by Mr Rohatgi, as needed to encompass the wider audience
     of PAPs who were not fluent in English. English notes of the Hindi dialogue were kindly provided by AK
     Swaminathan and Nupur Gupta.


                                                        28
        Toll taxes are very high. When the roads have been built with our taxes (cess of Rs2/= per litre of
        diesel) why should tolls be levied as well? Also, it is unfair that tolls are not charged by the
        distance traveled. For a 50 km stretch the charge is Rs. 35 irrespective of whether you travel the
        entire 50 km or only part of it.
        The service lanes are not safe and often cannot be utilized since the roadside dwellings harness
        their cows and buffaloes on the road and also use it for sleeping on cots, parking their vehicles etc.
        Illegal encroachments should be stopped.
        Moreover, the secondary roads leading to National Highways are kept in poor condition thereby
        negating many benefits derived from an improved national highway travel.
        The link roads into the city from the highway have not been similarly upgraded resulting in large
        traffic jams outside the city. Benefits in time savings on the highway are largely depleted owing
        to the wait times outside the city. A Ring Road is being talked about for the last 8 years with still
        no movement. NHAI should try to ensure appropriate link road development as well.
        Situation of potholes is very bad in some of the newly constructed bituminous stretches while the
        earlier completed sections are performing very well. NHAI and contractors should be held
        responsible for such poor quality works.

Positive aspects
        Huge savings in time as a result of the new highway. Travel time more than halved. Allahabad-
        Varanasi section earlier took up to 7 hrs to cover and today it can be done in 3-3.5 hrs. However,
        faster roads do not mean faster transportation. The queues for entering the destination towns and
        some of the other towns which do not have bypasses have increased manifold. More congestion
        within towns which do not have bypasses. Therefore delays happen.

2) Carpet Industry Representative

Large benefits of the highway improvements
       Accidents have been reduced (less fatalities)
       Congestion has gone down, with significant travel time savings. Delhi to Kolkata now in 3-4 days
       while before this road came it used to take 6-7 days.
       His business has increased since travel between the city and airport has reduced from 3 hrs to 1.5
       hrs only.

Land Acquisition/R&R problems
      Some 250 people affected but about 9 have not yet been properly compensated. The meager
      Economic Rehabilitation Grant was inadequate to construct new dwellings and relocate
      themselves. New buildings should be constructed for them.

3) Roadside petrol pump owner

Land Acquisition/R&R problems
      Lost land and received LA/R&R assistance. However, due to shifting backwards and to conform
      with the franchisee agreement of the oil company, I had to remodel the pump for which I was not
      compensated.
      No permanent approach has yet been given from the NH to my pump. There is a drain and a
      service road in between and only a temporary crossing over the drain has been given. While
      NHAI has been responsive, a permanent solution must be provided.
      I lost some income when my petrol bunk was closed for re-modeling. Assisted by the R&R
      package but not sufficiently.


                                                     29
        Overall, as of now the business has not improved but I expect it to increase in the near future
        when the whole road is completed.

4) Bagodhar Market (NGO and then a shopkeeper)

Land Acquisition with major R&R effort by NHAI
      A big new complex has been created and 300 shopkeepers shifted from old market acquired for
      NH2 right of way. A special area has also been created for the vegetable vendors on the other
      side of the road. Shopkeepers affected by the project have been rehabilitated.
      The new facilities are good, with the main advantage that they are dust-free and pucca.
      About business prospects: it has just been opened and hence too early to make a comparative
      statement today.
      Electricity connections not yet given to some. (NHAI clarified that electric connections have not
      been given to people who have not paid and cleared previous arrears.)

5) Roadside resident near Allahabad bypass

Gains and losses in access to land, social services, and markets
       The other side of Ganga is now very near due to the new bridge.
       Schooling and hospital access has improved for people on the other side of Ganga to be able to
       approach Allahabad.
       Loss of very fertile land and many fruit bearing trees and orchards at the Ganga bridge site. Could
       have been compensated better.
       R&R assistance not released for some people yet.
       Near guide bund area of the Ganga bridge: access problems for the remaining land with the owner.
       Rates not satisfactory.
       Why not construct a new market complex like Bagodra for displaced shopkeepers of Gopiganj
       instead of paying them compensation asking them to fend for themselves. (NHAI clarified that no
       alternative land at a mutually agreeable location was available for building a market complex.)

6) Some common views on road safety problems

Absence of traffic control
      Safety during construction is bad ­ no advance warning sign or hazard light for lane closures and
      switching of carriageway etc.
      Even on completed sections, vehicles often travel in wrong direction on one-way carriageways.
      Poor cyclist and pedestrian discipline causes a lot of problems, traffic impedance, and accidents.
      Cattle and other animals, some tethered to the median, many untethered, frequently obstruct the
      right of way, including driving lanes.
      Parking of trucks on road side without reflectors or parking lights cause accidents.
      Differential carriageway heights ­ headlight glare. Short bushes could mitigate this danger.
      Difference in height between the approach road and the main NH causes the traffic from
      approach road to stand on an incline till it gets its way on the NH.
      The RTOs and Police often stand at the middle of the road at locations with poor sight distance
      and create unnecessary panic among the truck drivers thereby causing accidents at times.




                                                   30
II. Project Preparation: Challenges Faced and Lessons Learned

Following the lunch break, Mr. A.K. Swaminathan-- who was a member of the World Bank team that
originally prepared and appraised the GTRIP and subsequently monitored its implementation-- made a
brief presentation on the issues faced in this key project in the early days of NHAI development. The
floor was then opened for discussion on issues related to project preparation and implementation from the
perspective of the highway providers, encompassing the issues raised in the earlier presentation of Mr.
Padhy as well as that of Mr. Swaminathan.

The discussions centered around the following problems and potential solutions:

1)    Deficiency in quality of DPRs was the most repeated issue, leading to additional work for
supervision consultants, revised designs, and the attendant variation orders, claims and disputes.

Causes for deficient designs:
       Insufficient time for preparation
       Poor/inadequate surveys, resulting in inadequate identification of right of way to be acquired and
       associated requirements for land clearance, resettlement and rehabilitation
       Insufficient time for consultations with all stakeholders

Suggested solutions
      Combine design and supervision consultancy contracts to reduce the problems arising (NHAI
      representatives expressed skepticism about this, they feel that consultants try to hide mistakes ­
      experience in other projects is not positive)
      Request design consultant to appoint external checker and safety auditor and charge them for
      mistakes but pay for good performance.
      Peer review for design should be completed before bidding even takes place or supervision
      consultant comes on board. (NHAI notes this now commonly being done.)
      Representative of DPR consultant should be placed on supervision team.
      Consultant liability ­ NH has put system in place to make consultants more accountable.
      Handing responsibility for utility shifting and tree cutting over to the contractor, with utility
      company acting as supervisor; this has been found to be successful.
      There was a common reaction from the consultant community that time for DPR preparation
      should be increased. It was noted that in China for a project cycle of 6 years about 3 years is
      given for DPR preparation and about 3 years for actual construction.

2)      Deficiencies in public consultation

Problems
       Public meetings are organized, but decisions which are taken are often not properly minuted.
       Emphasis is more on physical design issues (realignment etc) and less on impacts. Local
       highways/access roads/side roads are not included in design and benefits from construction of the
       highway may be somewhat limited for local inhabitants.
       Level of awareness among many beneficiaries is low, and there are no systems to create
       awareness in advance.
       Consultation efforts often not taken seriously by the public due to the slow movement of project
       implementation; participation is often not very good; local authorities do not take lead, and
       organization of consultation falls on consultant. (NHAI disputes this. As far as NH2 is
       concerned, NHAI has been strong in participation, and, based on this participation, developed
       EWS housing scheme, participation was good 100- 150, beneficiary training was well taken up--


                                                   31
        but accepts there is room for improvement and that public consultation can be a very effective
        tool.)
        Confusion is caused because different states have different rules, and there are a myriad of
        players in the consultation process.

Suggested improvements
       Central government guidelines should be prepared. These should be strictly adhered to which
       will allow for more effective and more efficient consultation.
       --       Commissions set up for project, press notifications should be made, knowledge of local
                systems should be known (Consultation was done at two stages preparation and
                finalization of design)
       --       Consultation should be repeated, emphasis should be placed on beneficiary training, and
                benefits of project should be emphasized.
       Records of consultations should be shared with supervising consultants and contractors who can
       assist in resolution of conflicts.
       NHAI should make more use of its own Stakeholder Advisory Council. Intervals between
       meetings have been rather long, but meeting held recently in May/June ­a copy of minutes will
       be provided to WB.
         Efforts should be made to encourage local authorities to take up the improvement of local
       access roads simultaneously. Better organization of the public consultation process would help
       NHAI Design Engineers to understand and deal more effectively with these needs.
         Provision of busbay/truck lay-bys/rest stop/handpump/water points/wayside amenities should be
       considerably increased (NHAI noted that these are part of the corridor management plans for the
       constructed NH2).

Note: Allahabad Bypass has had a positive experience. Due to survey errors and associated design
errors, the wrong land segments were acquired, but substantive consultation allowed timely purchase of
the correct segments for the right of way, allowing the project to move forward without delay. In fact, the
project is now set to be completed ahead of schedule.


III. Project Implementation

Key problem areas

1)      Time delays were a serious problem in GTRIP, as in TNHP

Major causes
       Delays most commonly emanated from poor quality DPRs, starting with inadequate surveys
       which too frequently failed to properly delineate the right of way, while also failing to identify
       obstacles to prompt clearance of the right of way, giving rise to many design changes, and
       frequent disputes.
       Failure of detailed designs to accommodate the precise terrain conditions.
       Failure of detailed designs to accommodate reasonable needs of PAPs (e.g. vehicle, animal and
       pedestrian underpasses, other pedestrian and animal safety measures).
       Slow decision making by NHAI in approving necessary design changes.
       Slow action by third parties responsible for land clearance activities (e.g. tree cutting, utilities
       relocation).
       A general shortage of well qualified engineering staff in light of strong competition from more
       rewarding opportunities in the Middle East and other overseas markets, which commonly
       overtaxed the capacity of many consultants and contractors alike.

                                                    32
         Insufficient profitability of the Indian markets also dissuaded international consultants and
         contractors from establishing much more than reconnaissance level involvement in India. QCBS
         selection used for consultants reduces profitability and quality firms will not normally make a
         substantial commitment of staff unless there is a shortage of work elsewhere.
         Institutional weaknesses that provide powerful incentives for delay in many contractual contexts,
         i.e. where delays are more profitable for individual participants on either side of the contractual
         relationship.

Potential solutions
       NHAI officials at the conference argued that the principal solution to most, if not all, of the
       problems experienced with implementation of the GTRIP and TNHP projects will be avoided in
       the future by conversion of future projects to BOT or other forms of PPP contracts because the
       private sector would thereby have ownership of the entire project planning and implementation
       process, and would thus have an incentive to avoid or resolve the problems without delay.
       Only for those projects which fail to attract bids from prospective concessionaires after two
       unsuccessful tenders as PPP (either BOT or Annuity form) will EPC procurement then be
       engaged.
       Where EPC is used, more time for preparation of the DPR will also be provided.
       Appointment of the Supervision Engineer will be effected at an earlier point and an overlap with
       the Design Engineer will be provided.
       For necessary ROW / ROB clearances, NHAI will engage earlier with state forestry departments,
       utility companies, and Indian Railways as appropriate. Wherever feasible, the Contractor will be
       employed to deal with the clearance under supervision of the responsible authority.
       Where disputes arise, NHAI is now beginning to honor awards of Dispute Resolution Boards as a
       general rule. However, it is noted that Contractors generally do not accept DRB decisions which
       do not favor them, and the tendency now is for disputes to be routinely referred to arbitration and
       beyond to the courts.
       NHAI institutional structure and efficiency could be streamlined by having 4-5 regional offices
       which are also staffed in a lean manner to avoid all contractual and administrative decision
       having to go to NHAI HQ.

2)    Disputes are mushrooming, and being escalated from the lowest level through Dispute
Resolution Boards to Arbitration and beyond to the Courts, imposing further delays and escalating costs.

Causes
         Poor quality DPRs.
         Several Supervising Engineers noted that their authority to resolve disputes at the local level has
         been undermined, and even relatively minor decisions are referred to NHAI headquarters, where
         lengthy delays are incurred.
         Contractors have found it profitable to escalate disputes to NHAI and beyond.

Potential remedies
       Better quality DPRs will avoid many disputes.
       Re-empower the Supervising Engineers to settle disputes up to 1% of contract for any one change
       subject to cumulative total of 10% of contract.
       Reduce the incentives for all parties to haggle over disputes by better governance.

3)      Improved management of environmental issues was in many aspects a positive feature of
the GTRIP Project, but there were exceptions. The respective contract packages of GTRIP have: (i)
incorporated relevant EMP items (including enhancement measures) in the contract documents, as a
separate item eligible for payment to the contractor; (ii) conducted enhanced community consultations to

                                                     33
identify and carry out enhancement measures at appropriate places; and (iii) implemented innovative
conservation measures for the protection wild life in Gautam Budha Wild Life Sanctuary - GBWS
(Package VB).

Management of environmental issues was in many aspects a positive feature ofthe project. Mr. Ashutosh
Gautam, General Manager, NHAI highlighted the positiveimpacts of implementing cultural properties
conservation measures andworking together with local people and industry in integrating local issues
(suchas conservation of Shukla Talab, contribution of the project for the safedischarge of industrial
effluents from Rania Industrial estate in Package IIA). Mr.Gautam also said that, the experience of having
implemented such measures hashelped NHAI practice such measures in subsequent projects.

Dr.Mukhopadhyay, DGM (Env), NHAI indicated that NHAI is in the process ofoperationalising the
'Environmental and Social Management System' developed aspart of the GTRIP project and now
conducts EIA studies for all its projects,irrespective of the requirements of environmental regulations in
India.

Discussions with the contractors and consultants during the road inspection and during the Stakeholder
workshop further confirmed that these initiatives have generally resulted in better implementation of EMP
and environmental management by the project. Instances of borrow areas being developed as water
bodies with recreational facilities (Packages II C, III C), enhancement of religious structures and
archeological monuments (Packages IV B, II B), demonstrates some of such best practices of
environmental management by the project.

However, there remains scope for further improvement in implementation of construction safety and
environmental management measures. For example, closure of various construction sites (borrow areas,
camp sites, plant sties, etc.) is not yet satisfactory in the incomplete project packages (such as Package I B,
IV A).

Problem resolution

Considering the continued requirement of EMP compliance, Bank has requested NHAI to re-mobilize the
EOs in all the ongoing packages, and the Bank's safeguard team will be providing guidance to NHAI in
ensuring the satisfactory implementation of EMPs by the project. Further necessary actions include: (i)
operationalization of Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) at NHAI; (ii) End of
project Target (EoT) plantation of 210,000 trees in various project packages; and (iii) carrying out a study
to evaluate the effectiveness of EMP measures in GBWS - Package VB.




                                                     34
                                                                                            Attachment 1
                          India: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
                                      Stakeholder Workshop
                       Venue: Hotel Ramada Plaza , Varanasi 17 October 2008



                                               AGENDA

09.45 - Tea/Registration
10.00 - Welcome Address by the World Bank - Objectives and Agenda of the Workshop
10.30 - GTRIP Project - Objectives, Components, and Progress - NHAI
11:00 ­ The Project Impacts -- OPEN DISCUSSION

How has the road widening affected long-distance travel and daily life alongside the road and within a
few kilometers of the road?
     Transport improvements: travel time, costs, frequency, reliability
     Access to markets ­ on-farm prices
     Access to social services ­ schools, medical care, family & friends, festivals
     Land use patterns and values
     Resettlement and mitigation measures
     Road accidents
     Other environmental impacts (positive, negative and mitigation measures)

                               11:45 ­ Tea Break

12:00 ­ continuation of open discussion re project impacts
12:30 Project Preparation
 Improving stakeholder consultation in project preparation

                               13:30 -14:30 Lunch Break

14:30 Project Preparation ­ Challenges Faced + Lessons Learned
         A.K. Swaminathan, World Bank team member

OPEN DISCUSSION

                               15:30 Tea Break

15:45 Project Implementation ­ Key Issues

    Deficiencies in DPR ­ how to improve?
    Land acquisition & clearance for construction
    Environmental management issues
    Disputes prevention & resolution
    Other improvements in contract management

IV. Lessons Learned and Way Forward

4.30PM Close


                                                    35
               Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

              GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT WORLD BANK PROJECT
                               (LOAN NO. 4622-IN)

                               Implementation Completion Result Report
1. Brief on the project:
Improvement of part of National Highway No. 2 for a length of about 420 km., connecting Delhi with
Kolkata, which forms one of the arms of the Golden Quadrilateral connecting four metropolitan cities of
the country, was taken up under loan assistance of World Bank termed as Grand Trunk Road
Improvement Project (GTRIP). The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), an autonomous body
under Ministry of Shipping, Road, Transport & Highways (MoSRT&H) Govt. of India, is the
implementing agency for this project.
The project loan assistance named as loan No 4622-IN is envisaged for widening and strengthening of
420 km. of National Highway (NH-2) from 2-lanes to 4/6-lanes divided carriageway falling in the states
of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand along with Institutional Strengthening and Training as well as
Corridor Management and Road Safety Works.
2. Objectives and Benefits of the Project
The basic objectives of the project are to reduce transport constraints on economic activity and reduce
transport costs along with the improvement of the institutional capabilities to manage road programs,
assets and service. Overall scope of project includes the following:
        Widening and strengthening of National Highway of about 420 km.
        Construction supervision with the help of international consultants
        Institutional strengthening, training, equipment, corridor management & road safety works etc.

The following benefits were aimed in the project
        Lower freight and transportation costs
        Improved environment along the project roads
        More effective management and sustainable maintenance of National Highways
        Reduced travel time
3. Key performance indicators:
The key performance indicators as given in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) that measure the
achievement of the project development objective included:
(a)     Reduced travel time by about 25-30% on project roads by end of project.
(b)     Reduction in vehicle operating costs on project roads by about 10% by end of project.
(c)     Reduction in incidence of road deaths by about 20% on project roads by end of project.
(d)     About 1200 km of National Highways maintained under contract with the private sector and
        managed by the Corridor Management Units by EOP.
Assessment of one of the basic objectives of the project i.e. extent of reduction of transport constraints on
economic activity and reduction of transport costs such as Time of Travel, VOC and other related
parameters are being evaluated by the World Bank by way of economic analysis through a Consultant
engaged by the World Bank. Other project development objective pertains to improvement of institutional



                                                     36
capabilities to manage road programs assets and services, on which there has been, marked improvement
as evident from below:
I.       NHAI has been mandated with expanded NHDP program under various phases of NHDP as under:
(a)       Four-laning of existing two lane National Highways (27,000 km) under NHDP Phases I, II, III &
          SARDP-NE.
(b)       Six-laning of existing four lane highways (6,500 km) under NHDP Phase V.
(c)       Construction of access-controlled expressways (1,000 km) under NHDP Phase VI.
(d)       Construction of service roads, ring roads and bypasses (30 ring road/bypass and 6 grade
          separator/elevated projects) under NHDP Phase VII.
(e)       Management of the corridors entrusted to it.
II.       The project/phase wise achievements of works as on 30th Sept, 2008 are as given below:



           Name of the Project             Total      Length          Under      Balance to
                                          length     completed    implementation be awarded
                                           (km)        (km)            (km)         (km)

      Golden Quadrilateral (NHDP-I)        5846           5698          148               -

      North-South East West corridors      7142           2838         3483             821
                  (NHDP-II)

             Port Connectivity              380           203           171               6

              Other Projects                962           671           271              20

      Four-laning on BOT (NHDP-III)        12109          551          1524            10034

           Six-laning (NHDP-V)             6500            25          1005             5470

                  Total                    32939          9986         6602            16351

III.      Wherever 4/6 laning works under NHDP are in implementation, to keep the existing roads in
traffic worthy condition, the maintenance of existing roads are carried out by the
Contractor/Concessionaire as part of their obligations under contract/concession agreement. In case of
sections identified under NHDP, 4/6 laning of which have not yet started, the maintenance of existing
roads are being carried out directly by NHAI or through State PWDs through funds provided by NHAI.
After completion of 4/6 laning works, the comprehensive maintenance are regularly carried out. A
dedicated wing named as Corridor Management Division has been established in NHAI for exclusively
the maintenance and management of the 4/6 lanned corridors. Under this, apart from routine and periodic
operation and maintenance of highways, engineering improvement as required for better road safety are
also taken up as and when necessary.




                                                     37
IV.       In view of ongoing /completed four/six laning works under various phases of NHDP and efforts
through continuous maintenance measures on existing roads, there has been marked improvement in
condition of core network of road under NHAI and hence, it can be safely construed that the objective of
improvement of institutional capabilities to manage road programs assets and services has been achieved.
4. Components
The Project (GTRIP) has four main components e.g. Up gradation of Highway, Road Safety and Corridor
Management, Public-Private Partnership in road concession and Institutional strengthening. Allocation of
fund, projected for these components and financing considered by the World Bank, while grant of loan is
as under:


           Component                    Sector         Indicative   % of       Bank-      % of Bank
                                                          costs     Total    financing    financing
                                                        (US$ M)               (US$M)
1) Highway upgrading of 420 Km       Highways              685.30    90.60       527.40          89.50
of NH-2 to four or six lanes
including construction,
supervision, land acquisition and
resettlement, and environmental
management.
2) Road Safety and Corridor          Highways              20.20      2.70        16.20           2.80
management works.
3) Public-private partnership in     PSI                   25.60      3.40        20.60           3.50
road concession, including
technical assistance, funding
NHAI's share of public-private
financing of Pilot BOT project on
NH-45.
3) Institutional strengthening     Institutional           19.00      2.50        18.90           3.20
                                   development
                              Total Project costs         750.10     99.20       583.10          99.00
                                    Front-end fee           5.90      0.80         5.90           1.00
                       Total Financing projected          756.00    100.00       589.00         100.00

During implementation, the above projection of US$589 million had been revised as under as per actual
construction cost with concurrence of the World Bank.

              Category                Original Amount of the Loan       Revised Amount of the Loan
                                         Allocated (US$ Million)          Allocated (US$ Million)
   Civil works                       510.72 (80% of cost)               531.04 (80% of cost)
   Consultancy                        52.85 (100% of cost)               35.00 (100% of cost)
   Front end fee                       5.89                               5.89
   Unallocated                        15.00                               0.00
   Goods                               4.54 (100% of cost)                4.54
   Total                             589.00                             576.47




                                                  38
5. Output of each component:
The target of 420 km of National Highway set for widening to four lanes, including planting of trees
(along full length) and satisfactory safety audit was achieved for an equivalent length of 416.76 km
widened to four lanes till loan closure date as on June 2008 (details are as per Annexure A). Component
wise achievements can broadly be summarised as under:


 Component             Output Indicators as given in PAD               Present Status
 1. Cost effective 1.1. Ex post ERRs of the 420 km. project            Evaluation being done by the
 delivery of increased roads are on average above 26%.                 World Bank by way of economic
 traffic capacity and                                                  analysis through a Consultant.
 improved quality on
 National Highways.
                       1.2. All civil work contracts delivered to      As per Annexure-A enclosed.
                       time, budget, cost and safety constraints.

                         1.3. 100% delivery of entitlements to         Completed
                         PAFs and restoration of common property
                         resources as and when planned in RAP.
                         1.4. All EMPs carried out in accordance       Completed
                         with contract clauses.
                         1.5. Level of users' satisfaction with road   Users are satisfied
                         infrastructure on project roads increased.
 2. Improved road        2.1. Safety audit and hazardous location      This component has been dropped
 safety, maintenance     improvement works conducted on                as part of the restructuring of the
 and management of       selected sections of NHDP network.            loan, due to the recent GoI
 National Highways.                                                    decision for six-laning of these
                         2.2. A comprehensive road safety action       corridors.
                         plan implemented on a pilot basis.
                         2.3. Two new CMUs established by
                         MTR.
 3. Expanded public-     Public-private partnership successfully       This component has been dropped
 private partnership in  executed to support large scale (over 50      as NHAI is taking up of all future
 promoting private       km) BOT projects.                             projects on PPP basis in ongoing
 investment on large                                                   development programs.
 BOT projects.
 4. Improved            4.1. All technical assistance in effect;       Achieved
 institutional capacity
 in social and
 environmental
 aspects, road safety,
 corridor management,
 public-private
 partnership, and,
 managing traffic
 efficiency.
                        4.2. NHAI HQ and field office staff            Ongoing
                        trained;



                                                    39
   Component              Output Indicators as given in PAD            Present Status
                          4.3. Options to eliminate cross-state        Policy dialogue with relevant
                          border freight delays analyzed and policy    states to be initiated.
                          dialogue with relevant states initiated;
                          4.4. Over 120,000 trees planted by MTR        Looking at the proposed 6 laning
                          and over 200,000 trees planted by EOP;        of the already completed 4 lane
                          4.5. Over 70% tree survival rate achieved     stretches under NHDP Phase V,
                          by EOP.                                       the plantation work has been
                                                                        suspended for the time being.


5. Major factors affecting implementation:
Major factors, which affected the implementation and consequently contributed in slow disbursement of
the loan amount, has been conceived as under.
        Delay in completion due to:
        1.        Land acquisition (LA) - the land acquisition plan prepared by the DPR Consultant was
                  seemed to be not matching with the ground condition.
        2.        Shifting of utilities- Most of the utilities were needed to be shifted during execution
                  which were over looked by the DPR Consultant
        3.        Tree cutting coordinated through respective State Government- Due to the non-uniform
                  forest policy of different states there was delay in cutting of trees.
        4.        ROB - Substantial delay in getting clearance from the Rly. Authorities.
        Slow mobilisation and poor/non-professional management by some Contractors, non effective of
        JV partners, frequent changes in the key persons of the contractor and poor liasoning with PIU,
        Supervision Consultant and local authorities.
        Law and order problem in certain States.
        Quarry related problem leading to non-availability of road materials in sufficient quantity.
         Problems from supervision consultants e.g. late decision making, delay in approval of drawings,
        tests, frequent replacements of professionals and poor liasoning etc.

The following efforts were made to overcome the problems and expedite the progress of projects.
        The matter related to delays due to acquisition of land and shifting of utilities was pursued at the
        highest level in the concerned state governments through designated Nodal Officer and some of
        the issues were taken up with Committee of Secretaries (COS) under Chairmanship of Cabinet
        Secretary.
        In order to solve the Law and Order problems, the regular meetings were held with the
        Administrations of the concerned state government to provide adequate security to the personnel
        and equipment involved in the execution of the projects. This issue was also taken up with
        Hon'ble Chief Minister of Bihar and Jharkhand.
        Liquidated damage was imposed against the contractors as per conditions of contract, wherever
        delays were attributable to the Contractors
        Termination of one contract package (I-B) due to delay in completion by the Contractor and re-
        award to another agency.

6. Lessons Learnt

In light of the aforesaid constraints experienced in implementation of the projects, the following subjects
have been identified for serious consideration in the upcoming projects of NHAI.
·        Public Consultations at the stage of DPR preparation.

                                                    40
·       Involving the state administration in providing feedbacks to the DPR consultant for taking in to
        account all sorts of issues/pending grievances of the public being affected due to the project.
·       Provision of more vehicular under passes at an average interval of 4-5 km against 10 km in GQ
        and pedestrian underpass at internal of about 2-3 km.
·       Provision of more service roads.
·       Solve the issues related to ROBs well in advances of the project award.
·       Peer Review of DPR.
·       Proof checking of design of major structures.
7. Bank Performance
Overall performance of the bank was satisfactory. The project team focused on relevance, making sure
that the project objectives were in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy and met the
Government priorities. Similarly the assistance of the bank in project preparation was highly satisfactory.
The bank assigned a highly qualified team with appropriate skill mix in the areas of Engineering,
planning, highway construction, institutional development and training.

In supervision of the project also the bank's contribution was huge; the good approach in the
identification of the problems and constructive advice of the banks team had a lot advantage in effective
implementation of the highway project.

The assistance provided by the bank ensured quality at entry, supported at implementation through
responsive supervision and ensured adequate transition arrangement for regular operation of the project.
7. Data for Economic analysis
The feasibility report of the highway projects under taken with the bank assistance, has been already
submitted to the bank while preparing the ICRR for TNHP. The Bank has made the economic analysis for
TNHP from the feasibility report. Bank may like to make economic analysis for GTRIP also from this
feasibility.




                                                    41
                                          Annex A: GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (GTRIP)
Sl.    Name of works       State   Length    Contract   Month of Scheduled      Anticipated     Physical   Comple       Present status & reasons for delay
No.     and location /              (km)      value     commenc month of         month of       progress   ted four
       package no. for                        (INR        ement  completion     completion       ending      lane
       four laning and                        crore)               as per                         June      length
        strengthening                                             contract                        2008       as on
                                                                                                             June
                                                                                                             2008
1     Km 199.66 ­          UP      50.8      328.49     March       March       Dec 2008        97.67      49.89       The balance work mainly comprises of
      250.50 (Agra-                                     2002        2005                                               one ROB of one carriage way at
      Shikohabad) ­ IA                                                                                                 Tundla (after dismantling of existing
                                                                                                                       ROB), for which CRS clearance has
                                                                                                                       been received in mid of February
                                                                                                                       2008.
2     Km 250.50-307.50     UP      59.0      236.95     Sept 2005   Sept 2007   Aug 2008        95.50      58.60       The project is almost completed except
      (Shikohabad-Ikdil)                                                                                               for 400 m work of approach of
      ­ IB                                                                                                             Shikohabad ROB, which needs about
                                                                                                                       15 working days with dry spell
3     Km 321.10-393.00             72.8      323.95     March       March       Substantially
      (Sarai Ikdil ­                                    2002        2005        completed in
                                                                                                                   Substantially completed
      Bhognipur /                                                               Dec 2007
      Sikandra) - IC
4     Km 470.00-483.33             51.5      496.12     March       March       Substantially
      and km 0/0 to                                     2002        2005        completed in                       Substantially completed
      38.00 ­ II B                                                              June 2008
5     Km 317.00-328.00     UP &    76        396.48     March       March       Dec 2008        88.81                    73.97               The balance work
      Km 0/0 to 65.00 ­    Bihar                        2002        2005                                                                     mainly comprises
      IVA                                                                                                                                    of three bridges
                                                                                                                                             i.e. at
                                                                                                                                             Karmanasha,
                                                                                                                                             Durgawati and km
                                                                                                                                             58/2. The
                                                                                                                                             mobilization by
                                                                                                                                             contractor,




                                                                                42
Sl.    Name of works        State   Length   Contract   Month of Scheduled    Anticipated     Physical   Comple     Present status & reasons for delay
No.     and location /               (km)     value     commenc month of       month of       progress   ted four
       package no. for                        (INR        ement  completion   completion       ending      lane
       four laning and                        crore)               as per                       June      length
        strengthening                                             contract                      2008       as on
                                                                                                           June
                                                                                                           2008
                                                                                                                                         especially in
                                                                                                                                         bridge work, is
                                                                                                                                         very slow. Several
                                                                                                                                         review meetings
                                                                                                                                         held at the level of
                                                                                                                                         M (T), where the
                                                                                                                                         contractor (PCL ­
                                                                                                                                         Suncon JV) has
                                                                                                                                         given assurance to
                                                                                                                                         complete the
                                                                                                                                         work.
6     Km 110.00-140.00      Bihar   30       197.95     March     March       Substantially
      Sasaram Bypass                                    2002      2005        completed in                     Substantially completed
      Sone River ­ IVC                                                        July 2008
7     Km 240.00-320.00      Jhark   80       434.68     March     March       Substantially
      (Barachetti-Gorhar)   hand                        2002      2005        completed in                     Substantially completed
      - VB                                                                    July 2007
      Total                         420.10                                                                           416.76 km




                                                                              43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               44
                             Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
1.    GTRIP Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 22169-IN), May 30, 2001
2.    TNHP Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20219-IN), May 12, 2000
3.    TNHP Project Implementation Completion Report, October 1, 2008

Project Status Reports/Implementation Status and Results Reports

4.    PSR Sequence No. 1, 06/29/2001
5.    PSR Sequence No. 2, 12/20/2001
6.    PSR Sequence No. 3, 06/23/2002
7.    PSR Sequence No. 4, 12/20/2002
8.    PSR Sequence No. 5, 06/25/2003
9.    PSR Sequence No. 6, 12/15/2003
10.   PSR Sequence No. 7, 06/22/2004
11.   PSR Sequence No. 8, 12/17/2004
12.   ISR Sequence No. 9, 05/25/2005
13.   ISR Sequence No. 10, 11/23/2005
14.   ISRS Sequence No. 11, 05/31/2006
15.   ISRS Sequence No. 12, 10/31/2006
16.   ISRS Sequence No. 13, 05/14/2007
17.   ISRS Sequence No. 14, 09/28/2007
18.   ISRS Sequence No. 15, 06/30/2008

Aide Memoire/Letters

19.   Special Implementation Support Mission, August 2005
20.   Combined Implementation Support Mission, December 2005
21.   Combined Implementation Support Mission, August 24-September 19, 2006
22.   Interim Review Letter, February 9, 2007
23.   Combined Implementation Support Mission, June 28-July 18, 2007
24.   Combined Mission, January 31-March 12, 2008
25.   Letter to DEA on final disbursements, November 26, 2008

Reports

26.   Indian Road Construction Industry: Capacity, Issues, Constraints & Recommendations, (draft,
      October 2008)
27.   Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects, (draft, June 7, 2007), Consulting
      Engineering Services (India) Ltd,
28.   Post Economic Analysis for ICR Report for Agrato Barwa Adda Section of NH-2, August 2008
29.   Quantification of Time Overrun in Pre-Construction (draft 2007)
30.   Activities of National Highway Packages Funded by World Bank and Asian Development Bank




                                                45
NHAI Documents

31.   GTRIP Project: Objective, Component and Progress (Power Point Presentation), GTRIP Project
      Implementation Completion Report, November 6, 2008
32.   Request for Proposal, Consultancy Services for Automated Data Collection, Updation and
      Management of Road Information System for NHDP Corridors (138 pages), March 23, 2007
Government of India

33.   Report of the Inter Ministerial Committee
34.   Restructuring of National Highways Authority of India, March 2008




                                               46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 31387

                                                                                                                                                                            82°
               HIMACHAL                               78°                                                          80°                                                                                                               84°                                                                        86°                                                         88°


                PRADESH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                           GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                             C H I N A




   PUNJAB
To Jalandhar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2        NATIONAL HIGHWAY UPGRADING UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                         Chandigarh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CITIES, BY POPULATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2        NATIONAL HIGHWAY UPGRADING UNDER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gorhar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT                                                                               <100,000
                        Ambala                              Dehra Dun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Katihar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8        NATIONAL HIGHWAYS ALREADY 4-LANED,                                                                             100,000­250,000

                                                                    UTTARANCHAL
                                     Yamunangar                                                                                                                                                                             OR 4-LANING IN PROGRESS                                                                    Gaya               250,000­500,000
                                             Saharanpur                                                                                                                                                       24           NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Agra                                                              30°




                     A
       30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                500,000­1,000,000
                                                                 Haridwar




                                   na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Patna


                   AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,000,000­2,500,000




                                     u
                                 Yam
                   Karnal                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS
                                               Muzaffarnagar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kolkata                          >2,500,000

           HARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
                   Panipat
                                                                                                      Haldwani
                             1
                                               Meerut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Patna
 10
                    Sonepat
                                                                   Amroha
                                                                                Moradabad                                                            N E P A L                                                                                                                                                                      STATE CAPITALS

    Rohtak          New                           Hapur
                                                            24
                                                                                        Rampur
                                                                                                               Pilibhit                                                                                       0                       100                                       200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   Delhi
                   Gurgaon               Ghaziabad                 Sambhal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                   Bulandshahr                                       Bareilly
                   Faridabad
               8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          28°                                                                             Budaun                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                             Aligarh                                               Shahjahanpur                                                                                                                          on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                              28°
To Jaipur




                                                                                          Ga                                                                                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                         2                                                     nga
       RAJAS




                                                  Hathras                                                                                                                                                                                                acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                     Bahraich




                                                                                                                                                            Gha
                                                                                                                                       Sitapur
                                                                                                                           Hardoi
                                               Mathura




                                                                                                                                                             gha
                                                                                            U T T A R 24




                                                                                                                                                              ra
                                 Bharatpur
                                                                     Firozabad
                                                                                               Fategarh
                              11                          Agra                                                                                Lucknow
                   THA




                                                                                    Etawah                                                                              Faizabad                                      Gorakhpur
                                                                 Chambal                                                                                                                      28
                     N




                                                                        Bhind                                     Kanpur            Unnao                                                                                                                                                                                                             Biratnagar
                                                                                                 2          Pratappur

                                                                                                                                     P R A D E S H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ga
                                                                                                 Sikandra
                                                                                                                                                        Rae Bareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29                                                              28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Darbhanga
                                             Gwalior                                                                                                                                                                                          Gh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ak
                                                                                                               Bhognipur                                                                                                                           ag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ha                Muzaffarpur                                                                                                    26°
       26°                                                                                                                                  Fatehpur                                                                                                         ra                                                                      Saharsa
                                                                                         25                                                         Khaga                                          Jaunpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maunath Bhanjan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chapra                                                                      Purnea                      BANG.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Arrah                      B I H A R                                                      Katihar
                                                                    Jhansi                                                                              Kokhraj            Allahabad                                                                                              Patna                31         Begusarai
                                                                                                                                                                                   Handia          Varanasi                                                   30                                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                                           Naini                                                                                                                                                   Monghyr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mohania                                                                 Bihar Sharif
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mughal
                                                                                                                                                                                               Mirzapur       Sarai                                     n                                                                                      Bhagalpur
                                                                                                                                                                     27                                                                            So
                                                                                                                                                                                   7                                                               Dehri
                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sasaram                                            Gaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31                                 31                                            BANG.
                                                                                                                                            Satna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ga
                                                                                                                                                       Rewa                                                                                   Aurangabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sherghati                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Barachatti    2                                                                                     34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Giridih
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Berhampore
                                                                        26                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
        24°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gorhar                  Barwa                                                        24°
                                                                                Sagar                                           Murwara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JHARKHAND                                    Bokaro Steel City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bermo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Adda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dhanbad                            WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kulti    Asansol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23                                Da Andal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ranchi                                                             mo  Durgapur
                                         Bhopal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32                            da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Barddhaman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bankura
                                                                                                                        Jabalpur
                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BENGAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Krishnanagar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jamshedpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Howra
                                                                                                                                                                           CHHATTISGARH                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Midnapore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kolkata
                                 MADHYA PRADESH                                                      7                                                                             Bilaspur
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Korba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rourkela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kharagpur            (Calcutta)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
        22°                                           78°                                                          80°                                                      82°                                                 ORISSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     84°                                                                       86 °                   5                                     88°          22°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JUNE 2001
