                                             CONFORMED COPY



                                          CREDIT NUMBER 4815-XK




      Financing Agreement
(First Sustainable Employment Development Policy Operation)


                         between


                REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO


                           and


   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                   Dated March 11, 2011
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4815-XK

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated March 11, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF
KOSOVO (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association? or “IDA?), for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework.

        WHEREAS the Association, acting as administrator of the Trust Fund, the
Kosovo Sustainable Employment Development Trust Fund, established pursuant to
Resolution No. 2008-0005, IDA No. 2008-0003 of the Board of Directors of IBRD and
IDA (TF 071152) and financed from surplus funds provided by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (“Bank? or “IBRD?), entered into the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement (“SEDPO Trust Fund Grant Agreement?), of even date herewith, to co-
finance the Program.

         WHEREAS the European Communities, the Government of the Swiss
Confederation, the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of Finland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, the
Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the
United States Agency for International Development (“Donors?, individually referred to
as “Donor?) have agreed to co-finance the Program on the terms and conditions set forth
in the administration agreements entered into or to be entered into between the respective
Donor and the Association, as administrator of the funds provided by the respective
Donor, and in the grant agreements to be entered into between the Association, as
administrator of the funds provided by the respective Donor, and the Recipient.

        The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.
                                           -2-


                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to four
        million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,300,000)
        (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.    The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Euro.

                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                           -3-


              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

        The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                         ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

5.01.   The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

        (a)     the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient
                in carrying out the Program, and that the Recipient’s macroeconomic
                policy framework is appropriate; and

        (b)     the SEDPO Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and
                delivered, and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right
                of the Recipient to make withdrawals under it (other than the
                effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                Mother Teresa Street
                10000 Pristina
                Republic of Kosovo

                                                          Facsimile:
                                                          +38 138 213 113

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                                           -4-


           Cable address:        Telex:                  Facsimile:

           INDEVAS               248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
           Washington, D.C.


           AGREED at Pristina, Republic of Kosovo, as of the day and year first above
written.


                                          REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO




                                          By /s/ Bedri Hamza
                                                         Authorized Representative



                                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                          ASSOCIATION




                                          By /s/ Jane Armitage
                                                         Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient has approved the Public Financial Management Reform Action
        Plan, in form and manner satisfactory to the Association.

2.      The Recipient has enacted the Law on the Civil Service No. 03/L-149 and the
        Law on Civil Service Remuneration No. 03/L-147, with a completed analysis of
        cost implications, and published such laws in the Official Gazette dated June 25,
        2010, all in a form and manner satisfactory to the Association.

3.      The Recipient has: (i) established a permanent inter-ministerial committee on
        sustainable employment; and (ii) approved an employment strategy. The
        Recipient’s inter-ministerial committee on sustainable employment has approved
        an action plan based on the employment strategy and included actions with
        budgetary implications for 2010 in the 2010 budget, all in a form and manner
        satisfactory to the Association.

4.      The Recipient has: (i) approved the Kosovo Cadastre Agency’s strategy and
        business plan; and (ii) enacted the Law on Leasing No. 03/L-103, dated July 17,
        2009, and published such law in the Official Gazette, dated August 10, 2009;
        both satisfactory to the Association.

5.      The Recipient, through the Kosovo Accreditation Agency, has completed an
        accreditation review of all private tertiary education institutions, in a form and
        manner satisfactory to the Association.

6.      The Recipient’s Cabinet has taken decision 02/51, dated January 23, 2009, to
        increase the level of social assistance and pension benefits to cover the cumulated
        inflation since calendar year 2005, but without resorting to higher labor taxes, in
        a form and manner satisfactory to the Association.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
                                       -6-


     Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
     in the table below:

                                             Amount of the Financing Allocated
               Allocation                           expressed in SDR

      Single Withdrawal Tranche                           4,300,000


      TOTAL AMOUNT                                        4,300,000


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition.

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

     1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
             Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
             to the Association; and

     2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
             Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
             Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
             Association.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.
                                         -7-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                                                     Principal Amount of the IDA
                                                           Credit repayable
              Date Payment Due                       (expressed as a percentage)*

On each April 15 and October 15:


     commencing October 15, 2020
     to and including April 15, 2030                              5%




* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the IDA Credit to
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b)
of the General Conditions.
                                          -8-


                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                        Group               Sub-group              Description of Item

                        112                                        Alcoholic beverages
                        121                                        Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                   tobacco refuse
                        122                                        Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                   (whether or not containing
                                                                   tobacco substitutes)
                        525                                        Radioactive and associated
                                                                   materials
                        667                                        Pearls, precious and
                                                                   semiprecious stones,
                                                                   unworked or worked
                        718                 718.7                  Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                   thereof; fuel elements
                                                                   (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                                   for nuclear reactors
                        728                 728.43                 Tobacco processing
                                                                   machinery
                        897                 897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                   platinum group metals
                                                                   (except watches and watch
                                                                   cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                                   silversmiths’ wares
                                                                   (including set gems)
                                           -9-


                         Group               Sub-group              Description of Item

                         971                                        Gold, non-monetary
                                                                    (excluding gold ores and
                                                                    concentrates)

        (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
                consumption;

        (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
                which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
                agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

        (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
                Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
                United Nations; and

        (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
                collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
                Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
                Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
                action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
                occur.

2.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
        through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
        Appendix.

3.      “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
        referred to in the letter dated July 6, 2010, from the Recipient to the Association
        declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
        requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
        execution.

4.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:
                                      - 10 -


1.   The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
     Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.   Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
     in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
     accordingly.

3.   Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                    If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of
            the proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or
            the Bank (“Preparation Advance?), the Association shall, on behalf of the
            Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the
            Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and
            outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal
            from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if
            any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
            amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
            cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.?

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
                                     - 11 -


            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.

     (a)    The term “Program Preparation Advance? (renamed as such pursuant to
            subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance?
            and its definition is modified to read as follows:

            “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
            Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.?
