                                                       CONFORMED COPY


                                                 GRANT NUMBER TF097759




            USAID Grant Agreement
      (First Sustainable Employment Development Policy Operation)


                                 between


                        REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO


                                   and


          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


acting as administrator of the USAID Trust Fund for the Kosovo Sustainable
                 Employment Development Policy Program




                          Dated March 11, 2011
                                                         GRANT NUMBER TF097759

                           USAID GRANT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated March 11, 2011, entered into between:

REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO (“Recipient?); and

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank?), acting as
administrator of funds provided by the US Agency for International Development
(“USAID?), for the purpose of providing a Grant (as hereinafter defined) in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).

WHEREAS the World Bank has entered into a Financing Agreement (the ‘SEDPO
Financing Agreement’) and a Sustainable Employment Development Trust Fund Grant
Agreement (‘SEDTF Grant Agreement’), in its own capacity and as the administrator of
the Kosovo Sustainable Employment Development Trust Fund, respectively, for the First
Sustainable Employment Development Policy Operation, of even date herewith, in
support of the Program. The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b)
the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework; and

WHEREAS the European Communities, the Government of the Swiss Confederation, the
Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech
Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Finland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, the Norwegian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (“Donors?,
individually referred to as “Donor?) have agreed to co-finance the Program on the terms
and conditions set forth in the administration agreements entered into between the
respective Donor and the World Bank, as administrator of the funds provided by the
respective Donor, and in the MDTF Grant Agreement, of even date herewith between the
World Bank, as administrator of the funds provided by the respective Donors, and the
Recipient.

The Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

                                      Article I
                           Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01.   The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various
        Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions?), with the modifications set
        forth in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral part
        of this Agreement.
                                         -2-


1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                     Article II
                                     The Grant

2.01.   The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to nine
        hundred thirty eight thousand three hundred thirty-three United States Dollars
        Dollars ($938,333) (“Grant?) to assist in financing the Project.

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                                     Article III
                                     Program

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end and further to Section 2.08 of the Standard Conditions:

        (a)    the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request
               of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
               framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
               World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
               achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank
               shall reasonably request; and

        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any
               proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which
               would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
               Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
               specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement.
                                           -3-


                                       Article IV
                                  Additional Remedies

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the
        Standard Conditions consist of the following:

        (a)     a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
                or a significant part of it, will be carried out; and

        (b)     Event prior to Effectiveness. The World Bank has determined after the
                Effective Date referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement that, prior to
                such date, but after the date of this Agreement, an event has occurred
                which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the Recipient's
                right to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had
                been effective on the date such event occurred.

                                       Article V
                              Effectiveness; Termination

5.01.   This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the
        World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified
        below have been satisfied:

        (a)     the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient
                have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
                action;

        (b)     the SEDTF Grant Agreement, of even date herewith, has been executed
                and delivered, and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the
                right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under it (other than the
                effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled; and

        (c)     the World Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient
                in carrying out the Program, and that the Recipient’s macroeconomic
                policy framework is appropriate.

5.02.   As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be
        furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank
        of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a
        certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Member
        Country, showing the following matters: on behalf of the Recipient, that this
        Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
        its behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.
                                           -4-


5.03.   Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement
        shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the
        Recipient notice of its acceptance that the conditions under Section 5.01 have been
        met (“Effective Date?). If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which
        would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make
        withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the
        World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section
        until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.

5.04.   This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has
        not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the
        delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank
        shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.

                                      Article VI
                        Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
        Conditions is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

        Ministry of Finance
        Mother Teresa Street
        10000 Pristina
        Republic of Kosovo

                                                          Facsimile:

                                                          +38 138 213 113

6.03.   The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                   Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
                                            -5-


           AGREED at Pristina, Republic of Kosovo, as of the day and year first above
written.



                          REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO




                          By /s/ Bedri Hamza

                                                                Authorized Representative


                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                          ASSOCIATION
                          acting as Administrator of the USAID Trust Fund for the
                          co-financing of the First Sustainable Employment
                          Development Policy Operation




                          By /s/ Jane Armitage

                                                                Authorized Representative
                                           -6-


                                      SCHEDULE

                  Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient has approved the Public Financial Management Reform Action
        Plan, in form and manner satisfactory to the World Bank.

2.      The Recipient has enacted the Law on the Civil Service No. 03/L-149 and the
        Law on Civil Service Remuneration No. 03/L-147, with a completed analysis of
        cost implications, and published such laws in the Official Gazette dated June 25,
        2010, all in a form and manner satisfactory to the World Bank.

3.      The Recipient has: (i) established a permanent inter-ministerial committee on
        sustainable employment; and (ii) approved an employment strategy. The
        Recipient’s inter-ministerial committee on sustainable employment has approved
        an action plan based on the employment strategy and included actions with
        budgetary implications for 2010 in the 2010 budget, all in a form and manner
        satisfactory to the World Bank.

4.      The Recipient has: (i) approved the Kosovo Cadastre Agency’s strategy and
        business plan; and (ii) enacted the Law on Leasing No. 03/L-103, dated July 17,
        2009, and published such law in the Official Gazette dated August 10, 2009; both
        satisfactory to the World Bank.

5.      The Recipient, through the Kosovo Accreditation Agency, has completed an
        accreditation review of all private tertiary education institutions, in a form and
        manner satisfactory to the World Bank.

6.      The Recipient’s Cabinet has taken decision 02/51, dated January 23, 2009, to
        increase the level of social assistance and pension benefits to cover the cumulated
        inflation since calendar year 2005, but without resorting to higher labor taxes, in
        a form and manner satisfactory to the World Bank.

Section II.     Availability of Grant Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance
        with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Schedule; and (c)
        such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
        Recipient.
                                        -7-


B.   Allocation of Grant Amounts. The Grant is allocated in a single withdrawal
     tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Grant. The
     allocation of the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below:


               Allocation                  Amount of the Grant Allocated

      Single Withdrawal Tranche                        $938,333

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                     $938,333


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition.

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World
     Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and (b)
     with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Grant Amounts. Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:

     1.      all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World
             Bank into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
             World Bank; and

     2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
             Grant into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
             Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
             World Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank
     determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment
     for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
     World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
     World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard
     Conditions is October 31, 2011.
                                        -8-


                                    APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the World Bank
               has financed or agreed to finance, or which the World Bank has financed
               or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                        Group               Sub-group            Description of Item

                        112                                      Alcoholic beverages
                        121                                      Tobacco, un-
                                                                 manufactured, tobacco
                                                                 refuse
                        122                                      Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                 (whether or not containing
                                                                 tobacco substitutes)
                        525                                      Radioactive and associated
                                                                 materials
                        667                                      Pearls, precious and
                                                                 semiprecious stones,
                                                                 unworked or worked
                        718                 718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                 thereof; fuel elements
                                                                 (cartridges), non-
                                                                 irradiated, for nuclear
                                                                 reactors
                        728                 728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                                 machinery
                        897                 897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                 platinum group metals
                                                                 (except watches and watch
                                                                 cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                                 silversmiths’ wares
                                                                 (including set gems)
                                         -9-


                        Group                Sub-group            Description of Item

                        971                                       Gold, non-monetary
                                                                  (excluding gold ores and
                                                                  concentrates)

       (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;

       (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
               which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
               agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

       (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
               Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
               United Nations; and

       (f)     with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt,
               fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by
               representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds,
               without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and
               appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such
               practices when they occur.

2.     “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
       promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
       referred to in the letter dated July 6, 2010, from the Recipient to the World Bank
       declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
       requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of the Program during its
       execution.

3.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Grant allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions

The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:

1.     Sections 2.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 2.07 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

2.     Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
                                      - 10 -


3.   Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1
     above) is modified to read as follows:

             “Section 2.04. Documents; Records. The Recipient shall ensure that:

             …       (c)      all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are
             retained until two years after the Closing date;?

4.   Paragraph (b) of the Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1
     above and relating to Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation) is
     modified to read as follows:

             “Section 2.05. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. The
             Recipient shall:

             …        (b)     ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank,
             not later than six months after the Closing Date, a Completion Report of
             such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably
             request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the
             Recipient and the World Bank of their respective obligations under the
             Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.?

5.   Sections 3.05 (Designated Accounts) and 3.06 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
     in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered
     accordingly.

6.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard
     Conditions are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and
     definitions are added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the
     terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
     follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Grant is put in
             support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
             pursuant to the Grant Agreement.?

     (b)   The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
     Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
     modified to read as follows:

             “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in
             support of which the Grant is made.? All references to “Project?
                       - 11 -


throughout these Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to
“Program?.
