FILE COPy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 228a-IC
APPRAISAL OF
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
ICELAND
September 25, 1973
Agriculture Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by t)he Bank G roup. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorizati'on. The gank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1 = IKr 8&.5 .
IKr 1 = US$ 0.0113
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)      = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilogram (kg)  =  2.2046 pounds
1 Ton            =  2,204.6 pounds
Water Depth      = Meters at Mean Low
Water Spring Tides
(MLWST)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
FLF    - Fisheries Loan Fund
FPEF   - Fish Price Equalization Fund
GNP    - Gross National Product
GRT    - Gross Registered Tons
M[fWSr - Mean High Water Spring Tides
MLWST  - Mean Low Water Spring Tides
GOVEBMENT OF ICELAND
FISCAL YEA-R
January 1 to December 31



J
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABLLITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .. ...........*0***** ........         i-i
I.   INTRODUCTION .                                              1
II.   BACIGROUND . ................
A*  General  *.*. *.*......*.................a.. ,          1
B.  The Fishing Industry ...*...................            2
C.   The Volcanic Eruption at Vestmannaeyjar  **            3
D.   Alternative Fishing Port Sites ..............         5
E.   Administration of Fishing Harbors .... ........        6
III.   THE PROJECT ................. ...., .............           7
A.   General Description...........,..7.
B.  Detailed Features   .  .....................            8
C.   Implementation Schedule        ....................    9
D.   Cost Estimates         ...............                 9
E.   Financing            ..............                   10
F,  Procurement e*1
G.  Disbursement                      t1
H.   Accounts and Audit .....12
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....................          12
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............         12
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION *.......              13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Iceland in June 1973, consisting of Messrs. D. Marti±nusen,
A. Fateen, L. Liberman (Bank), W. Guckien (FAO), G. Gerhardsen
and J. Koppernaes (consultants), all of whom contributed to its
preparation.



-2-
1.  Fisheries Sector
2.  Marine Resources
S.  Icelandic Harbors Authority
4.  Project Size and Economic Analysis
5.  Phasing Chart
6.  Cost Estimates
7e Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
MAPS
10597R    Project Locations
10602     Effects of Volcanic Eruption
10600     Thorlakshofn Alternative A
10601     Thorlakshofn Alternative B
10598R    Grindavik:  Improvements to Basin and Approaches
105991    Hornafjordur:  Proposed Landing Quay Extension
0
0



ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUNKARY AN]D CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to rehabilitate Iceland's southwest
coast fisheries which have been seriously hampered by the volcanic eruption
in Vestmannaeyjar.  Total cost over a three-year investment period is esti-
mated at US$11 million, toward which a Bank loan of US$7 tillion is proposed
to cover the foreign exchange component (62% of total cost).
ii.       The volcanic eruption in Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland's most important
fishing port, on January 23, 1973 forced the evacuation of the island's
entire population of 5,200 and its fishing fleet. Lava and volcanic ash
have destroyed or seriously damaged much of the town's housing, infrastruc-
ture and fish processing plants. Government has calculated the replacement
value of the property damaged or destroyed at about US$100 million, equiv-
alent to 13% of the forecasted GNP for 1973.  The Vestmannaeyjar fishting
fleet (the largest in Iceland) has had to relocate in the various ports along
the southern coast and in Reykjavik. Severe congestion in these ports and
longer distances to fishing grounds have seriously limited the operations of
the Vestmannaeyjar fishermen. Fish account for about 80% of Iceland's total
exports but as a result of the eruption, fish exports have been reduced by
an estimated US$5.5 to 11 million.
~iii.             The project would provide emergency harborage for the entire
Vestmannaeyjar fleet during the remainder of the emergency and reasonably
safe, efficient and accessible fishing harborage for the one-third to one-
half of the Vestmannaeyjar vessels that are expected to remain permanently
on the mainland.
iv.       The project would include construction of a new breakwater, basin,
and quays at Thorlakshofn; navigation aids, new quays, and dredging of the
basin at Grindavik and rock blasting and dredging of the channel and entrance;
and a new quay at Hornafjordur.
v.        Civil works at Thorlakshofn and most rock removal at Grindavik (re-
presenting 70% of the estimated cost of civil works under the project) would
be procured through international competitive bidding. At Grindavik, the
works inside the basin and a small amount of rock blasting in the channel
would be carried out by the Icelandic Harbors Authority under force account;
both would be ready for the next winter cod season (January-May 1974). Be-
cause of its small size the quay at Hornafjordur would also be constructed
by force account.
-         vi.        The Icelandic Harbors Authority of the Ministry of Communications
would be responsible for implementing the project. The Authority is exper-
ienced in planning and executing small harbor improvements in Iceland. How-
ever, it has not had experience in carrying out a project of the size pro-
*       posed.  The Authority has-hired a firm of engineering consultants to make
_       soil surveys, prepare the detailed engineering and tender documents and
assist in tendering and constructior supervision.



- ii -
vii.      Project benefits are estimated at US$2.2 million per year due to
reduced vessel damage, increased number of fishing days as a result of safer
harbor entrances which would enable vessels to enter in bad weather, and a
reduction in waiting time to unload vessels thereby enabling fishing for a
longer period each day. The rate of return to the economy is estimated at 28%.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of USS7 million.  The
Borrower would be the Government of Icaland and the loan would be for 15
years including four years' grace.
0



ICELAND
FISHING HAORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. INTODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iceland has requested a Bank loan of US$7.0 mil-
lion to meet the foreign exchange costs of a project to rehabilitate the south-
west coast fisheries which have been heavily hampered by the volcanic eruption
in Vestmannaeyjar, the main fishing port in the area. The project involves
the improvement and enlargement of three ports on the south coast - Thorlakshofn,
Grlndavik and Hornafjordur - which would accommodate part of the displaced
Vestmannaeyjar fishing fleet.
1.02      This would be the third Bank loan in the agricultural sector.  Two
small loans totalling US$2.4 million were made for farm improvemene (53-IC
and 79-IC) in the early 1950's.
1.03      The request for emergency assistance was received by the Bank on
February 26, 1973 and shortly thereafter a reconnaissance missior, composed
of FAO and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program staff, visited Iceland. The mission
found that because of the excellent records available on all aspects of the
fisheries industry (see Annex 1) it was possible to prepare a project on the
basis of their visit. This report is based on their proposals and on the
findings of an appraisal mission that visited Iceland in June 1973g, consisting
of Messrs. D. Martinusen, A. Fateen, L. Liberman (Bank), W. Guckien (PAO),
G. Gerhardsen and J. Koppernaes (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Genetal
2.01      Iceland is an island of volcanic orgin, situated in the North
Atlantic Ocean close to the Arctic Circle.  Of its area of 103,000 km2, only
about 20% is suitable for agriculture and livestock; 12% is covered by gla-
ciers and the rest is a highland plateau of volcanic rock. Most of its
210,000 inhabitants live in the coastal areas with about half of them in and
around Reykjavik, the capital city.  Its ?rincipal resources are the nearby
fisheries, large amounts of potential hydroelectric and geothermal power
and the grasslands which support a livestock industry.
2.02      The economy is heavily depe-ndent on fishing and fish processing
which account for about 14% of GNW and 80% of exports. Fluctuations in
catches and prices continue to have a major impact on the country's economy.
The economy has generally been fully-employed over many years and a relatively
high rate of domestic inflation (12% average per year over the last decade'
kas been a continuing problem.  The unexpected depletion of the herring stock
in the late 1960's was reflected ir. a reduction of real GNP of some 20% during
1967-68. Since 1969, however, the economy has grown at an average of 7% per
year. In 1971, GP per capita reached US$2,500.



-2-
2.03      The obectives of Government economic policy have been full employ-
ment and diva::¢ficatiov of economic activity and exports.  The potentials
for agricultural anS mineral development are, however, limited. Economic
diversification thus implies the development of heavy power intensive export
industries. However, t8is does not mean. that further development of the
fishing industy is to be neglected as it 4s still a very profitable activity.
A prog,am to modernize the fishing fleet is being carried out.  At the scme
time, fish processinig and freezing plants are being expanded and improved to
meet new health stanrarEs of importing countries and to increase their effi-
ciency.
B. The Fi ;hinindustry
2.04      Some 5,000 people ere employed directly in fishing, catchirg some
700,000 tons yearly in  recent years; cod and other demersa-' specVes account
for about two-thirds of the tonnage and over 70% of the value of the totrl
catch.  Most of the cod is frozen and exported as fillets.  Capelin, which
in 1971 accounted for 27% of the tonnage and 5% of the total value, is con-
verted into fishmeal, also mainly for export. The fishing industry is
further described in Annex t.
2.05      Because of the dominant role of the1 fisheries industry in her econ-
omy (see Annex 1) Iceland is gravely concerned with the management and, con-
servation o4: fish resources iln nearby waters0  Iceland claims juriscaiction
over the fisheries within a 12 mile lirit. Hoowever, 4n 1972 the Goverrment
announced that it Intended to control the fisher.es within a 50          lmle Iimwt.
This decision. triggered a dispute with the U.K. and the Fe1deral RepubAlc of
Gemrany whiclc has not yet been resolved. However, the proposed project has
no relevance to thIs dispute sIrne the ports which would be lmporied service
fisheries on the spawning groundz o2 the soe r coast wher,as the  iuroieaa
nations are mainly concerned wnith trawl"ing in the nurse-y grounds to the
north of the island.
2.06      Tne areas close to the south and southwest coast (map  E.D2R  30597L)
are rich fishing3 grounds, prov£Lrng most of the capelin and over 40% of
the cod and rel-ated species taken by Icelar.ders. This cod fishery, which
is malrly by gillnet, has seen carried out for centuries during Jamuary-
April betweer Hcorna l2ordur or, th2 southes  zoast and BreidarfJorur on
thie southwest coast.  f-,e tccitcr cf thIs fis5iery charnges from year to year
but the pr_nci-pal south coast ;..rbo-s each yvar receive considerable direct
landings, both 2rom boa"-s -rois tered ia these harbors and from boats from
other areas.
2.07       --ause the catcaes ara large \g5bout *0 tons average pe-. day per
boat), often    -ttiZ a botttlcaL 'n one- day and as the season ls winter,
the  i-sh aze romz '_a  or gutted, thereby saving much time on board. However,
the boats require a :-sear-by .harbor for daily fisl-h landings and shelter during
bad weather.  Unloadig wr        Yaxe Ya LEa.y area (Reykjavik and vicin-ity) is not
practical for th§Ls da-y :=ish,r arc ~mpossiba for the small and medium-sized            0



0                                             -3
boats, which are unable to negotiate the difficult waters around the Reykjanes
Peninsula in bad weather. Available harbors on the south coast are either too
small, too exposed or have difficult entrances. Only Vestmannaeyjar had a rea-
sonably safe entrance and anchorage.
2.08      During 1972 and several seasons prior, some 40,000 tons of demersal
fish (cod and related species) were landed annually in Vestmannaeyjar, mainly
by the 70-80 boats registered ehere,  The processing plants were able to han-
dle the entire catch.  In the capelin season landings varied considerably from
year to year but in 1972 amounted to 89,000 tons or 38% of the capelin catah
for the whole country.
2.09     lThe central location of Vestmannaeyjar permitted a year-round fish-
ery in nearby waters. Because of nearness to harbor the Vestmnannaeyiar boats
tended to be smaller than those from other ports.  However, with, the develop-
ment of the capelin fishery, the need for larger purse seiners has resulted in
a move towards larger vessels.  The ownership pattern for the fishing fleet
was about the same as on the mainland, with considerable vertical integra-
tion with the processing plants. The harbor being on ana island meant that
few boats from other parts of Iceland landed their catches there and thus
no problems of congestion existed.  The Vestuannaeyjar harbor Pwas sufficient
for ordinary cargo ships to enter and most of the,fish products were exported
directly from Vestmannaeyjar.
C. The Volcanic Eruption at Vestmannaeyjar
2.10      On January 23, 1973, a volcano erupted on Vestmannaeyjar, forcing
the evacuation of the island's entire population of some 5,200. Volcanic
lava and ash have totally destroyed 400 of the 1,340 dwellings in the town
and seriously damaged a great many others (Map IBRD 10602). The fishing fleet,
Iceland's largest, was removed undamaged and was instrumental in the success-
ful evacuation, but considerable damage was caused to the fish processing
plants.  One of the two fishmneal plants and one of the five freezing plants
were totally destroyed and two other major processing facilities were severely
damaged. The town's underwater freshwater pipelines, power cable and sewerage.
system were also seriously damaged. The replacement value of the property
either damaged or completely destroyed has been calculated at lKr 10 billion
(about US$100 million), equivalent to 13% of the forecasted GNP for 1973.
2.11      The Vestmnannaeyjar fishing vessels have had to relocate in the
various ports along the southern coast and in Reykjavik. Thus, virtually
the entire population is on the mainland, mostly in the Reykjavik and
Reykjanes area  d  in the southern region. Temporary prefabricated houses
provided by bilat6xL aid are now being completed for the Vestmannaeyjar
people in these areas.  Seriously congested ports and longer distances to
fishing grounds have seriously limited the operations of the Vestmannaeyjar
fishermen. The country's total catch during February-May 1973 was lower
than it might otherwise have been.



-4-                                                   0
2.12      For the first time anywhere, massive pumping of seawater was applied
to the leading edge of the lava in an attempt to form a crust and thereby slow
or stop the advance of the lava on the town. Aided by this the Lava flow
stopped short of closing the harbor entrance and so far has provided a useful
additional breakwater. The volcanic eruption stopped at the end of June and
experts consider that a further eruption is unlikely. However, experience
has shown that volcanoes are unpredictable; for example, Surtsey (about 12
miles south of Vestmannaeyjar) erupted three times in a space of two years.
Therefore, resettlement in Vestmannaeyjar has not been allowed. One of the
five freezing plants has been permanently relocated in the Reykjavik area
and it is uncertain whether a second would return to the island even if fur-
ther eruptions do not occur. Some 300 workers are currently involved in
clearing the volcano ash which has covered the whole town and it will be
sometime before the surviving processing plants can be started up. Because
of the delays which will be experienced in reviving the economic base and
complementary services of the island it will be a long time before Vestmannaeyjar
can support its original fishing industry.  Many peopLe will not wish to
return to the island because of fear of the volcano. Barring further eruption,
a few people will likely move back for the 1974 winter and spring fishing
season and within two to five years about one-half to two-thirds of the popu-
lation will return. Thus nearly all of the Vestmannaeyjar fleet of 80 vessels
Mas to be relocated for the next two to five years and facilities are required
for a permanent base for about 30 to 40 vessels.
2.13      Government estimates that the decrease in the Vestmannaeyjar fleet's
catch will cause a loss of IKr 500 to 1,000 million (US$5.5 to 11 million) in
exports during the current season and a decrease of 2% in real GNP in 1973.
In addition, large amounts of resources have been diverted into relocating
the Vestmannaeyjar people on the mainland, salvaging property, and reconstruc-
tion. To meet the costs of the dislocation created by the eruption, the Althing
(Parliament) enacted a law on February 7, 1973, creating the Emergency Fund
which is to raise IKr 2,000 million (US$22.5 million, about 2.5% of this
yearts estimated gross natioual income) over a 12-month period. The revenue
is estimated as follows:
IKr million
(1)  2% additional general sales tax                   900
(2)  Addition to the business tax on enterprises       300
(3)  30% surcharge on the net wealth tax                80
(4)  10% surcharge on the municipal income tax         400
(5)  Direct contribution from the Treasury             160
(6)  Grant from the Unemployment Insurance Fund        160
2,000



5
In a small, fully-employed economy this diversion of resources will have a
major impact on the country's future real economic growth.
D.  Alternative Fishing Port Sites
2.14      The south coast of mainland Iceland has, unfortunately, no natural
harbor.  Hornafjordur, at the eastern end of the south coast, has a very dif-
ficult entrance (impossible in gale conditaons) that cannot be improved at
other than prohi.bitive cost and is not central to the principal fishing grounds
in most years.  Thu', it would be unsuitable for major immediate development.
It is, however, near the western edge of the summer trawling grounds and is
becoming increasingly important for capelin.  The berthing facilities are in-
adequate for its 18 registered vessels (including four from Vestr...nnaeyjar)
plus vessels visiting seasonally.
2.15     'Jest of Hornafjordur there are no natural harbors or bays urtil
VestmannaeyJar; sand drifts would make very difficult the construction and
maintenance of port facilities at any point on this stretch of coastline.
The closest existing landing places, west of Vestmannaeyjar, are Stokkseyri
and Eyrarbakki which have difficult entrances, offer doubtful shelter from
strong southwest gales, and have narrow basins which cannot be readily ex-
panded.  The only two ports whose improvement could be considered would be
Thorlakshofn, located 40 nautical miles from Vestmannaeyjar, and Grindavik,
another 30 nautical miles further west.
2.16      Thorlakshofn (population 600) is relatively close to the major
fishing grounds in most years and is linked to the capital, Reykjavik, by
good roads most of the way. The present port (consisting of a small basin
with 200 m of berth and depth of 2 to 4 m) is too small, offers insufficient
shelter from southern swells and is exposed to some silting. In gales the
berths are untenable and their use has caused much damage to boats.
2.17      Cod and capelin landings at Thorlakshofn are heavy during the peak
seasons, both for the local processing plants (one freezing and fishmeal
plant and several salting plants) and for plants in the Reykjavik area to
which, during recent years, about one-half of the raw fish landings have
been trucked. The normal home-based fleet consists of about 1I vessels,
though another 15 registered at nearby Stokkseyri and Eyrarbaklti, where
landing facilities are even less safe in extreme weather conditions, also
frequently use Thorlakshofn.  In the cod season up to 50 vessels land their
catches on peak days.
2.18      Construction of breal:waters sufficient to provide adequate shelter
and entrance for vessels would require sizeable initial inlvestment and almost
two years to fully plan and implement. However, the center of the winter cod
fishing grounds can generally be fished daily from this port.  It is also
conveniently placed near the peak season capelin fishing grounds.  Shorward,
Thorlakshofn offers all the necessary space for development of processing
industries, storage and housing.



-6-
2.19      Grindavik (population 1,300) has a well sheltered basin but a very
difficult entrance with a narrow channel surrounded by lava rock outcrops and
exposure to southwest winds and swe'lss  All improvements to date have been
concentrated on deepening and enlarging the baylet by forming two basins sep-
arated by a landing quay and rec'laimed area. Some additional protect'on has
been given to these basins by construction of rock breakwaters on top of the
natural rock barriers.  The exiLsting quay facilities (landing quays 2&0 L lon:g
and 4.5 m deep at ItWST 1/ and berthing quays 270 m long and 2 to 3-1/2 m deep)
are totally inadequate for the approximately 45 vessels now permanently based
there and the over 30 vessals landing there during the peak cod season,  In
19739 with the additional vessels from Vestmannaeyjar, vessel total reached
130 daily on occasion.
2.20      Grindavik has a number of fish processing plants, including one
fishmeal plant.  Landings are also made at Griridavik for transport overland
to processing plants in the Keflavik and Reykjavik areas, to whichl there
are good road connections.
2.21      The difficult entrance channel-, with direction chianges at critical
points, has resulted if damage or loss to numerous vessels (including two
last winter). The channel is particularly difficult for visiting vessels,
especially in gales.  Some widening, deepening and straightening of the chan-
nel is essential.  However, unlike Thorlakshofn, due to hard roclk in its en-
trance, Grindavik's harbor could not be sufficiently improved at accaptable
cost to provide a safle entrance in all ticdes and weather.
2.22      Possibilities for basin expansion and for shore develop-ment are
somewhat more limited than in Thorlaksholn.  However, important improvements
to the basin (dredging of soft materials and construction of additional quays)
and to the entrance (installation of improved navigation aids and some dredg-
ing) could be effected in time for the next winter cod season.  this would
alleviate some of the congestion caused by tVe volcano at Vestm aaeyjar aad
improve navigation for vessels normally using Gzrindavik.
2. Adm-_:nistration o'~ Fishing Harbors
2.23      Apart from thse Ex:t    l y'KjvI   wrich- has  lts  .. separate authority,
all ?orts in Iceland ar, c,-D-:ated aither by Government (a small r;wi'ber iancludILng
Thorlakshofn) or                    Captftal r,provements at the state- owed ports
are financed `00% by Cover-imnt; :z zicpa!y-owned, 75%752   Gover=naent sometimes
lends to =nici:pa!J^Ucs thetL ir  _ -har,-c O.. -v. ¢nvestment out Iays; sparm-ent re-
cords on such loans have beers mi.  .  harbor works are the respornsibi_ity of
the Icelandic Earbors Authoritty of the Xiuis'try of Co=unicatiana (further
desc.!b_eE 'n Annex 3)   The H:arbors Avthority must approve, and usually plans
and implemerns, capoial Improvements at both the state- and municipally-owned
ports.  Te. annal 1idget of the Harbors Alzthority for head office and capi-
tal works is small ecurrentliz about LKr 300 million - some US$3.3 million)
and must cover the neecs cf 73 sites _n Ice'and.  In the current year most         
I/   Mean low water spriaL ticeL.



-7-
of the Authority's budget has been concentrated at Grindavik in order to pro-
vide some relief from the emergency caused by the volcano at Vestmannaeyjar.
Tariffs for use of fishing harbors are uniform for the entire country and
historically have been kept relatively low.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would provide emergency harborage for the entire
Vestmannaeyjar fleet during the remainder of the emergency and reasonably
safe, efficient and accessible fishing harborage for the one-third to
one-half of the Vestmannaeyjar fleet expected to remain permanently on the
mainland. Paras 2.04-2.22 and Annex 4 provide an analysis of project size
and location.
3.02      The project would include:
(a)  Detailed engineering (including a hydraulic model study)
and construction of a new breakwater, basin and quays at
Thorlakshofn;
(b)  New quays and dredging of the basin at Grindavik (much
of which would be completed by loan signing) and rock-
blasting and dredging of the channel and entrance; and
(c)  Construction of a new quay at Hornaflordur.
The Icelandic Harbors Authority of the Ministry of Communications, assisted
by consultants, would be responsible for project implementation.
3.03      The ports at Thorlakshofn and Grindavik ideally require investments
to provide vessel capacity for the average daily landings at those ports dur-
ing 1970-72 (a daily average of 70 vessels), plus one-third to one-half of the
daily landings at Vestmannaeyjar (15 to 23 vessels), for a total of 85 to 93
vessels. However, the project would actually provide a daily estimated capacity
for 81 vessels, which is near the desired capacity if one-third of Vestmannaeyjar
vessels stay on the mainland (para 2.12). Because of the uncertainty of the
percentage of Vestmannaeyjar vessels that will return to Vestmannaeyjar and
the imprecision in the definition of capacity, the amount of investment has
been kept to the lowest possible level. Many more than 81 vessels could be
accommodated during peak days, but with delays in unloading that would be
expensive in terms of lost fishing time. Additional unloading quays could be
provided later as the situation warrants. At Thorlakshofn, once the break-
waters are completed, additional quays could be built at costs that could be
*        met by the Harbors Authority's regular capital budget.



-8-
B. Detailed Features
Thorlakshofn
3.04      The project would consist of:
(a)  Construction of a new breakwater and possible extension
of an existing breakwater to provide a safe entrance and
basin;
(b) Construction of about 400 a of landing and berthing quays;
(c)  Dredging of soft material adjacent to the new quays to
a depth of about 5.5 m below MLWST;
(d) Detailed engineering, including a hydraulic model study
to determine the most satisfactory layout of breakwaters.
3.05      The project would provide a safe entrance and shelter for both the
new quays and improved entrance and berthing in the existing small basin.
The new berths could be used for vessels of up to 500 GRT. The basin would
provide space for possible future expansion of berthage, a slipway, additional
processing facilities and other transport berthage.
3.06      Selection of the exact layout of breakwaters and berths can only be
determined after hydraulic model studies by a suitably experienced hydraulic
laboratory (para 4.01). Two possible layouts are shown in maps IBRb 10600
and IBRD 10601.
Grindavik
3.07      The project would consist of:
(a)  Construction of about 250 m of new landing and berthing quays;
(b)  Improvements to existing quays and breakwaters;
(c) Dredging of soft material and loose rock in the basin;
(d) Provision and installation of navigatior. lights and beacons
in the channel and entrance;
(e) Removal of rock from the basin and approach channel; and
., ?rovision of consulting engineering services, including soil
studies.
.



-9-
3.08      Dredging in the basin would be to a depth of about 4.7 m below MLWST,
which would be satisfactory for vessels up to 250 GRT. Consulting services
would include a small model as a basis for improving navigation in the
channel. The proposed improvements are shown in map IBRD 10598R.
Hornafiordur
3.09      The project would include a new quay about 90 m long with a depth
of about 5 m at MLWSTR (map IBRD 10599R).
C. Implementation Schedule
3.10      A phasing chart is attached as Annex 5.  The works inside the basin
and navigation aids at Grindavik would be largely ready for the next winter
cod season (January-May 1974); this is possible only because Government de-
cided, shortly after the eruption at Vestmannaeyjar, to immediately carry
out improvements that had been scheduled for implementation over many years.
Some rock work in the entrance would be started during 1973 but most would
be carried out during the spring and simmer of 1974. The model studies and
detailed engineering for Thorlakshofn would be largely completed in 1973 to
permit construction to start in 1974. The works would be partially completed
and provide some benefit during the January-May 1975 cod season, with the re-
maining works to be completed later in 1975. The works at Hornafjordur would
be completed in early 1974.
D. Cost Estimates
3.11      Total project cost would be about IKr 994 million (US$11 million),
and the foreign exchange about IKr 616 million (US$7 million), or 62% of
the total. An overall physical contingency of 14% has been added (15% at
Thorlakshofn and Hornafjordur; 10% at Grindavik, where some of the works
are completed or substantially underway). Cost estimates are based on June
1973 prices. A price contingency of 7% per year on foreign and 15% per year
on domestic purchases has also been added. Physical and price contingencies
together comprise 19% of the estimated total project cost. The following
table summarizes cost estimates (see Annex 6 for details).
.



- 10-
Percentage
Foreign
IKr.millions          US$ millions       Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
A. Civil Works
at Thorlakshofn        187    247    434   2.11   2.79    4.90        57%
at Grindavik.           99    178    277   1.12   2.01    3.13        65%
at Hornafjordur         10      15     25   0.11   0.17    0.28       61%
Subtotal             296    440    736   3.34   4.97    8.31       60%
B. Navigation Aids at
Grindavik                 3      10     13   0.03   0.11    0.14       78%
C. Consulting Services
at Thorlakshofn          4     31      35   0.05   0.35    0.40       87%
at Grindavik             5     15      20   0.06   0.17    0.23       74%
Subtotal               9     46      55   0.11   0.52    0.63      83%
D.  Contingencies
Physical                22      83    105   0.25   0.98    1.23       80%
Price                   48     37      85   0.56   0.42    0.98       43%
Subtotal              70    120    190   0.81   1.40    2.21       63%
TOTAL (A+B+C+D)      378    616    994   4.29   7.00   11.29        62%
E.  Financing
3.12      Since the project is much larger than previous fishing harbors
projects in Iceland, the municipalities would be unable to meet immediately
their 25% contributions to project cost. In order to ensure that provision
of financing would not delay the start of emergency work, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would provide loans to Grindavik
and Hornafiordur, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to cover
the 25% of the project cost normally borne by these municipalities.
3.13      In order to provide some improvement at Grindavik prior to the
next winter cod season (January-May 1974), force account work had to com-
mence soon after the eruption at Vestmannaeyjar (para 2.10). Between March
and October 1973, an estimated US$1.3 million in foreign exchange will have
been spent.  These costs incurred prior to loan signing would be financed
from the pr?zaeds of the loan because they cover works that provide some
relief for the next cod season.
3.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$7 million to the Republic of Iceland
would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project.  Many project



- ii -
items such as stone breakwaters have a very long life, others such as wooden
piers and steel sheet piling will need replacement after 10 to 20 years. The
terms of the loan would be 15 years including four years' grace.
F. Procurement
3.15      Civil works at Thorlakshofn and rock removal at Grindavik subse-
quent to January 31, 1974 (representing 70% of the estimated cost of civil
works under the project, US$5.8 million) would be carried out by contractors
selected through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The tender documents, contractors and contracts
would be subject to Bank approval. In the interests of providing the maximum
improvement at Grindavik prior to the January-May 1974 cod season, the civil
works inside the basin and the installation of navigation aids would be carried
out by the Icelandic Harbors Authority under force account. The equipment for
the navigation aids would be procured by the Harbors Authority after request-
ing at least three quotations from international suppliers.  A summary of bids
or quotations, an analysis report, and a brief justification of the contract
award would be sent to the Bank at the time the award is made. A small amount
of rock blasting (about IKr 13 million or US$150,000) in the channel would be
carried out prior to next winter's cod season by the Icelandic Harbors Author-
ity using equipment hired locally, the contract for which would be subject
to Bank approval. The rock work remaining after January 31, 1974 would be
carried out by a contractor selected through international competitive bidding.
The tender documents, contractor and contract would be subject to Bank appro-
val. The works at Hornafjordur would be too small to attract international
firms and local firms are not equipped or experienced in this type of marine
work; the work would be carried out by the Icelandic Harbors Authority under
force account, the common practice for such work in Iceland. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the above procurement procedures would
be followed.
G. Disbursement
3.16      Disbursement for all civil works included in the project, whether
by contractors or force account, would be on the basis of 60% of the cost,
representing the estimated foreign exchange component. Disbursement for
navigation lights and beacons at Grindavik, including their installation,
would be at 75% of total expenditures, representing the foreign exchange
expenditure. Disbursement for consulting services would be on the basis
of actual foreign exchange expenditures. An estimated schedule of Bank
disbursements is showt in Annex 7. Any amount unspent on completion of the
project would be available for related harbor development works at the three
sites.
0



- 12 -
H.  Accounts and Audit                                      0
3.17      The State Auditor is responsible for auditing the accounts of
all Government departments and agencies, including the Icelandic Harbors
Authority. Adequate records exist of expenditure proposed to be financed
retroactively under the project. The State Auditor has adequate independence
and would be satisfactory; during negotiations assurances were obtained that
the State Auditor would be responsible for auditing expenditures under the
project, and that audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within four
montns of the end of the financial year.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND XANAGEMENT
4.01      The Icelandic Harbors Authority of the Ministry of Communicatibns
would be responsible for implementing the project. It would also carry out
the force account work, for which it has considerable experience in virtually
all the fishing harbors of Iceland. The Authority is well-experienced in
planning and executing small harbor improvements in Iceland. However, it
does not have experience in carrying out a project of the size proposed and
would therefore hire a firm of engineering consultants, suitably experienced
in marine works, to carry out detailed soil investigations, prepare the de-
tailed engineering and tender documents, assist in tendering, and supervise
construction.
4.02      The selection of consultants was reviewed with the Harbors Author-
ity during appraisal and a short list of suitable firms and laboratories was
agreed upon. The Harbors Authorit7 subsequently hired, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, the Danish consulting firm of J. Hostrup-Schultz and
Sorensen to perform the consulting services outlined in para 4.01. As part
of the consulting contract, the consui'tEnt would be assisted by the Denish
Hydraulic Institute in carrying out the hydraulic modies
4.03      Maintenance on project works is expected to be minor but would be
carried out by the 1celandic Harbors Authority from its regular budget. As-
surances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
V.  ECONNOQI  B.ENITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The proposed  zmsrovement and expazisior. of the ports at Thorlakshofn,
Grindavik, and Hornafjordur would provide emergency harborage Lor the e-,tire
Ves=mannaey7ar fleet during the ramainder of the emergency created by the
voIzazi  _ruption, and reasonably safe, effJlcient and accessible fishing
harborage on "he south coast mainland for the one-third to one-half of the
Vestmannaeyiar fleet that is ex'ected to remain permanently on the mainland.
.



° 13 
5.02      Quantifiable benefits accruing to the project are estimated (Annex 4)
at US$2.2 million (IKr 203.5 million) per year at full development (fourth year
after commencement of the project), due to:
(a)  reduced vessel damage (a benefit of US$0.2 million per
year - 11r 20 million);
(b)  increased number of fishing days as a result of safer
harbor entrances which would enable fishing vessels to
enter in bad weather (US$0.5 million - IRr 44.3 million);
and
(c)  reduced waiting time to unload vessels, thereby enabling
fishing for a longer period each day (US$1.5 million
1Rr 132.8 million).
The project would result in an increased catch of bottomfish of about 6,000
tons per year (about 1% to 2% of Iceland's total annual catch of thece species),
for which export market prospects are excellent.
5.03      The running of boats and plants is carried out by private companies,
fishermen and cooperatives; Government extends its influence in the industry
through regulations and coordination. While some boats are owned by the proc-
essing plants and cooperatives a significant number are owned by master fisher-
men alone or in partnership with other crew members.  Regardless of the owner-
ship, crew members are paid a share of the catch value after deduction of cer-
tain cost items. Therefore the benefits of the project, including those
attributed to decreases in vessel damage, will be widely distributed.
5.04      The economy would realize a rate of return of 28% from the project
investment including physical contingencies. By increasing the cost of the
project by 25% without increasing the value of benefits, the rate of return
would be reduced to 21%. Decreasing the incremental catch per hour of fishing
by 25% would yield a rate of return of 22% and decreasing all benefits by 25%
would result in a rate of return of 19%.  All these returns are satisfactory.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were obtained
from the Government of Iceland that it would:
(a)  provide by way of loan to the municipalities of Grindavik
and Hornafjardur, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, the 25% of project cost normally required to be put up
by these municipalitles (para 3.12);



- 14 -
(b) properly maintain the harbor works provided under the
project (para 4.03).-
6.02      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$7 million to the Government of Iceland for a 15-year term,
including four years of grace.



ANNEX l
Page 1
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fisheries Sector
A. Importance of Fisheries to the Economy
1.        The living resources in the sea are Iceland's most important na-
tural resource, and fishing has been carried out since the first settlement
of the country in 874 A.D. However, until the introduction of decked fish-
ing boats and new fishing techniques towards the end of the 19th century, agri-
culture was the dominant means of livelihood. Agriculture has remained a
source of employment, but since the turn of the century fisheries has become
an important means of foreign exchange earnings, and fisheries development
has become the chief vehicle for modernization of the economy at large.
2.        Iceland's semi-arctic location limits the number of species.  Cod
has always been ->as mainstay of the fishery and still is; in 1971, with re-
lated species and other bottom-feeding fish (whitefish or demersal fish), cod
constituted 68% of the quantity and 73% of the value of all catches (Table 1)
by some 5,000 Icelandic fishermen operating from 875 fishing boats.  For the
last 50 to 100 years herring fishing was of great importance but the Atlanto-
Scandian herring stock has virtually disappeared. In the late 1960's a fishery
for capelin developed and in 1971 constituted some 27% of the total quantity but
only 5% of total value. As in most countries with fisheries, there are fre-
quent uncontrollable fluctuations in catches and market prices.
3.        In 1972, fishing and fish processing provided some 14% of gross
national product and about the same percentage of total employment (Table 2).
Over most of the post-war period the fisheries sector has contributed 90 to
95% of merchandise exports. With the growth of power-i-ntensive industries
the fisheries share of exports has shrunk during the last five years to about
80% (Table 3).  Iceland's catches in its record year, 1966, constituted 2.2%
of the world's catch and Iceland ranked fourth in export volume of marine
products and fifth in export value. The annual catch per fisherman is very
high (some 136 tons in 1971) and fish catch per inhabitant is second to none
(3.2 tons per capita as compared to 0.8 tons in Norway and 0.06 tons in
Canada).
4.        After the depletion of the Atlanto-Scandian herring stock in the
1960's, the cheaper and more transitory species of capelin gained ground,
while the quantity of demersal species declined. Total landed value of the
catch was IKr 5,710 million in 1971 and final product value (including whal-
ing) IKr 12,320 million (Tables 4 and 5).
5.        Iceland's Economic Development Institute estimates that two-thirds
of economic growth in Iceland has been generated by the fisheries. This sec-
tor employs relatively little expert manpower. Fishing is a high-earnings



ABNEX 1
Page 2 
industry relative to the grades of labor employed; fish processing, however,
is a rather low-earnings industry, employing substantial numbers of part-time
female and young workers.
6.        The percentage of the gainfully employed population engaged in fish-
ing, fish processing and trade has dropped steadily from 20.6% in 1930 to 14.2%
in 1971, due to mechanization of the expanding fishing fleet. The percentage
of the labor force employed in fishing shrank from 15% prevailing until 1940
down to 6% in 1971. At the same time, with the growth of a large-scale fish-
processing industry, mainly with the advent of the freezing industry during
World War II, the percentage of the labor force employed in processing plants
rose from 3 to 6% in the pre-war decades to a maximum of 10% in 1960, but as
a result of further mechanization it declined to 8% in 1971.
7.        The fish stocks vary in concentration at different locations.  Thus,
the regions have different and complementary roles regarding fish species, sea-
sons and range of operations. All the coastal regions are dependent on marine
catch of one type or another (Table 6).
8.        Table 2 compares the fisheries sector with other sectors in the econ-
omy and traces the chain of processes utilizing the fisheries resources through
different stages. The fisheries sector is the only industry engaged in large-
scale production from domestic resources and because of its size it forms a
large market for metalworking, shipbuilding, fishing gear and packaging in-
dustries. It also provides an overwhelming part of the nation's foreign ex-
change earnings for raw material imports for other industries as well as for
imports of capital and consumer goods.
9.        The one-sidedness of the economy carries with it considerable risk
of economic fluctuations and stagnation. Furthermore, it has been realized
that even with a successful preservation of the fish stocks, the growth ca-
pacity of the fisheries may be seriously limited.
10.       The prospective industrial development in Iceland will be insuffi-
cient to take the place of the fisheries sector, and the only major source
of investible national resources for this transformation will have to be
derived from the fisheries. But gradually the relative weight of other
basic industries must be expected to increase so that the economy may be
better secured against a setback of the fisheries or any single main in-
dustry. This will not, however, reduce the absolute role of the fisheries.
On the contrary, a further development is needed, especially a fuller util-
ization of raw materials and higher degree of processing.
B. Organization and Management of the Fishing Industry
Role of Government
11.       Because the fishing industry is the dominant factor in Iceland's
economy, the Government has taken an active role in its development.   The



AINNEX 1
@                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3
small size of the country has led to a pragmatic approach in meeting partic-
ular needs as they arise.  The Government mairly leaves the actual running
of boats and plants to private fishermen, companies and cooperatives but ex-
tends its influence in the industry through regulation, coordination and fi-
nancing.
Regulation
12.       The Covernment enacts and enfotces variotis fishinrac regulations for
resource management, quality control and efficiency.  There are numerous re-
strictions on the use of various gear. Special fishing grounds are reserved
for the use of long-lines and gilinet; fishing is controlled by regulating
the numbers of nets and fishing areas that can be used.  Trawis and Danish
seines are nermitted in some areas inside the fishery limit at certain times
of the year. There are also restrictions on vessel size inside the limits.
Purse seining for cod and saithe is also controlled with regard to mesh size,
time of fishing and composition of the catch.
Research, Advisory Work, and Other Government Services
13.       The Marine Research Institute has been considerably strengthened
in recent years. The Institute now operates one old and two new and modern
oceangoing research vessels which are active ir. international research on
the North Atlantic fisheries resources, organized by the International Coun-
cil for the Exploration of the Sea. Extensive marine biological and hydro-
graphical investigations are carried out by these three research vessels and
a staff of scientists and their assistants. Surveys of distribution and
abundance of commercial stocks of fish and vertebrates have been of great
importance to the fishing industry and have led to formulation of extensive
conservation measures. Much time is spent in advising fishermen on the
availabillty and extent of resources and this, which is known as "fish search",
has come to be a very popular service.
14.       This institute has its counterpart in the field of fish processing
in a technological institute established for the purpose of research and ad-
visory services to the processing industry.
15.       The Ministry of Fisheries initiates and supervises fisheries leg-
islation and statutory regulations in collaboration with the semi-governmental
Fisheries Association of Iceland (Fiskifelag Islands), the head of which is,
in effect, the Director of Fisheries. He and his staff maintain an informa-
tion and statistics service and render advice to fishermen on boat design,
engines and fishing equipment. They are instrumental in the operation of
tie Minimum Share Scheme and cooperate witli the Fisheries Loan Fund in re-
viewing loan applications; they also function as coordinators for a number
of fisheries activities.
16.       ixports of frozen fish products are handled solelv by tw-7o Government-
approved autonomous organizations:  (a) the Tcela:ndic Freezing Plants Corpora-
tion, representing the privately-owned fish plants and handling about 75% of
exports; and (b) Samband, representing the plants owned by cooperatives and



ANNEX 1
Page 4
handling about 25% of exports. The cooperatives were mainly established in
the agricultural sector and later established fish plants as subsidiaries.
The freezing plants at Hiornafjordur and Thorlakshofn are owned and opetated
by cooperatives while all the plants at Vestmannaeyjar and Grindavik are in
the private sector.
Business Yanaaement and Organizations
_     _   O                    . . ___i n
17.       The authorities do not normally interfere in business management,
but where private initiative is not forthcoming, the Government or the munic-
ipalities may own boats and plants.  Also, where earnings are not considered
sufficient, Government may grant subsidies, although the preference is clearly
to provide investment funds (at real interest rates which are in fact substan-
tially negative), to advise on technological improvements and availability
of resources, and to regulate and equalize prices and earnings through various
levies imposed on the export trade. Also, the legislation has been provided
to support and/or license various export organizations.
18.       In theory, fish prices are fixed in negotiations between buyers
and sellers, i.e., the processing plants negotiate with fishing boat owners'
and fishermen's organizations. However, if no agreement is reached, a Gov-
ernment-appointed Board of Arbitration determines the prices for each season
and adjusts them as it sees fit. This has now been the case for a number of
years.
19.       A number of fishing boats are still owned by master fishermen and
often in partnership with other crew members. There may also be joint owner-
ship with processing plants or a processing plant may be the sole owner, or
a number of boat owners may own a processing plant. In most cases, the op-
eration of the fishing fleet is integrated with the processing plants either
through ownership or through special contracts. In advocating their views
fishing boat owners work jointly through a special Fishing Boat Owners Asso-
ciation and crew members have their own organization which is affiliated with
other labor organizations.
C. Fishing Operations
Production
20.       Iceland's fleet, wnich is mar.ned by some 5,000 fishermen. falls
into two broad categories:  large-size trawlers which trawl on a year-round
basis; and othler mostly rmul.tpurdose boats of which some have Ieeni partic-
ularly designed for purse se`ning. Because of -he emphasis on herring
fisheries in the 1960's, the fleet of big deep-sea trawlers declined while
the fleeW  - small and medium-sized fishing boaLs increased substantially.
From 1960 to 1972, total fleet tonnage (Table 4) increased from 71 ,000 to
d2,000 gross registered tons (GRT).  By the end of 1972, the fleet consisted
of 32 trawlers (average i96  RT)M, 214 other boa.s of more than 100 GRT (aver-
age 192 GRT) and 626 bcats a  less than 100 GRT (average 32 CRT).  In addition,
there are four whale-catchers averaging 336 GRT.



ANMEX 1
Page 5
21.       T7he Vestmannaeyjar fleet had no big trawlers but one was delivered
in 1973 and now operates from Reykjavik. There were 19 boats of more than
100 GRT and 57 smaller boats. Average size was 75 GRT as compared with some
100 GRT for boats registered in Thorlakshofn and Grindavik (Table 7).
22.       Icelandic vessels fish mainly in coastal waters on the continental
shelf, but during the last 10 years trawlers and purse seiners also have
fished in more distance waters, for example off Greenland and (for herring)
in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea.
23.       As the Atlanto-Scandian herring stock was depleted and the fishing
for it virtually came to an end (para 4), investment in new boats was made
mainly with an eye to further development of the trawl fishery for other
species, with big vessels - mostly 400-500 GRT but in some cases 1,000 GRT -
and with medium-sized and small coastal boats, the trend being towards a
somewhat bigger size for the coastal fishing boats.
24.       Of the total catch in 1971, about 32% was taken with trawl, 37%
witlh gillnet, 17% with long-line and the rest, 14%, with various other me-
thods as shown in Table 8. Difficulties in finding boat crews to some ex-
tent influenced the choice of fishing methods so that in some cases there
was a shift from tne labor-intensive gillnet fishin- to, say, long-lining
or trawling. However, in the winter fishery for cod, the predominant gear
is still gillnet.
25.       The warm waters off the south and southwest coast are rich fishing
grounds where important fish stocks come for spawning (Annex 2).  A cod fishery
has been operating for centuries from January to April between Hornafjordur
on the southeast coast and Breidafjordur on the southwest coast.  The center
of the fishery changes from year to year but the principal south coast harbors
each year receive considerable landings (Table 9) in the cod fishing season
from boats from many areas. The main gear in the south coast cod fishery is
gillnet; the average boat, of some 70 GRT, usually carries 90 to 110 nets and
a crew of 14 to 16.
26.       Because thie catches are large (5 to 15 tons average per day per
boat, often permitting a boatload in one day) and the season is winter, the
fish are not iced or gutted, thereby saving much time on board. tiowever,
the boats require a nearby harbor for daily fish landings and shelter during
bad weather.  Unloading in the Faxa Bay area (Reykjavik and vicinity) is
not practical for this day fishery and impossible for the small boats, which
are unable to negotiate the difficult waters around the Reykjanes peninsula
in bad weather.
27.       The capelin fishery (which in 1971 yielded 27%' of the total quan-
tity of fish caught ernd 5% of the value) takes place mainly off the south
and southwest coasts. The south coast harbors are important as a base for
the fleet (Table 10); as many boats as possible will try to unload there.
Vestmannaeyjar, which had two fishmeal plants. took 74,000 and 89,000 tons,
or some 30% in 1971 and 1972, respectively. After the eruption, these plants
ceased operations for a considerable time and operated for only three weeks
in 1973, so that Vestmannaeyjar took only 23,000 tons or 5% of the total
catches (Table 11).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
28.       In 1973, 92 boats took part in the capelin fishery; average catch
was 4,750 tons and the most successful boat had 18,800 tons for the season.
As shown in Table 10, the south coast harbors took 18% of total capelin land-
ings in 1973 as compared with 41% in 1971 and 44% in 1972. As a result of the
closure of plants in Vestmannaeyjar in the 1973 season, fishing boats were
paid extra for the transport of their capelin catches to fishmeal plants in
the more distance parts of the country.
Processing and Trade
29.       Prior to World War II, the bulk of Iceland's whitefish catches was
salted. Some catches were landed directly as fresh iced fish in foreign
ports. Since the war, a considerable trade in frozen fish, mainly fillets,
has developed, catering to expanding markets in a number of countries, par-
ticularly in the United States. In 1963, nearly one-half of the whitefish
catch was frozen as compared to two-thirds in 1971 (Table 12). Production
of salted and fresh fish has stayed at a constant level over the last 10
years.
30.       Stockfish production, which in 1963 was about equal to salted fish
production, declined to a negligible quantity in the 1970's because of the
closing of the Nigerian market.
31.       Most of the landings of pelagic species - herring and capelin -
have for the last few decades been converted into meal and oil. As long as
there was a herring fishery, certain quantities were also used for salting
or curing into a variety of products (Tables 12 and 13).
32.       Since cod fishing in the south is seasonal, Grindavik and Thorlakshofn
were never equipped to process the entire catch which is landed there; some
50% or more is trucked away (Table 15) to processing plants in the nearby
villages, such as Selfoss, but mainly to the Faxa Bay area plants.
33.       Freezing plants are located all over the country but the bulk of
the freezing capacity is in the Faxa Bay area. Reykjavik and vicinity could
process 766 tons in a 10-hour working day; Keflavik and other harbors on the
north side of the Reykjanes peninsula, 407 tons; Grindavik, 84 tons; Thorlakshofn,
132 tons; and Vestmannaeyjar, 446 tons (Table 16). In hornafjordur a new plant
is being completed with a capacity of 110 tons.
34.       Being on an island, the town of Vestmannaeyjar has sufficient ca-
pacity to process all landings made there, and the growing sumner trawl
fishery for lobsters and other bottom-feeding species has helped to keep
its plants in operation year-round. However, in an attempt to provide a
more regular supply in the slack seasons, a 500-ton stern trawler was added
to the Vestmannaeyjar fleet in early 1973. In the capelin season Vestmannaeyjar
also received landings from boats registered in other harbors. Most of Ice-
land's fishmeal plants are actually located in former herring fishing areas
in the northern and eastern part of the country (Table 17).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
35.       The most recent product ir; Iceland's fishery export is frozen capelin
for the Japanese market. In 1973, some 20,000 tons were exported, and there may
be a further development toward using more capelin for human consumption at a
higher return to producers.
D. Financial Aspects of the Fishing Industry
Prices, Costs and Earnings
36.       The arbitration boards, which in recent years have set the prices
paid fishermen, have gradually increased producer prices in line with in-
creased export values. Table 18, giving average prices by species for 1968-
72, shows that cod and capelin prices more than doubled over the period. A
considerable part of the increase was due to inflation. The development of
fob export prices in terms of foreign currency is shown in Table 19, with price
indices for the main commodity groups. With 1963 = 100, the index number in.
1971 for frozen products was 190.9; salted whitefish products, 178.4; salted
herring, 251.5; and fishmeal and oil, 170.7.
37.       Iceland's Economic Development Institute prepares aggregate operat-
ing accounts for the fishing fleet and processing plants (Tables 20 and 21).
Estimated gross profits of the freezing plants (before depreciation and direct
taxes) amounted to about IKr 464 million in 1971 and, according to a recent
estimate for 1972 and forecast for 1973, some IKr 451 million and IKr 669
million, respectively. For the fishing fleet, the corresponding figures
were:  1971 - IKr 364 million; 1972 - IKr 169 million; 1973 - !Kr 612 mil-
lion. Average annual earnings for fishermen in 1972 were IKr 554,000
(US$6,225 at the June 1973 rate of exchange), as compared with IKr 460,000
and IKr 576,000 for unskilled and skilled workers, respectively. Remunera-
tion of Icelandic fishermen is, on average, relatively high. Most fishermen
are paid with a share of the catch value after deduction of certain cost
items. Therefore, the range of personal income is very wide: a downward
limit has been fixed by a special minimum income guarantee scheme estab-
lished for the fisheries industry. Even though any fisherman may be lucky
and well rewarded, this probability does not always constitute sufficient
incentive to work on a fishing boat, as evidenced by the crew shortage for
some boats and seasons.
Government Programs and Financial Support
3S.       Government supports the fisheries through a variety of indirect
means. These include (with amounts budgeted for 1973 in brackets): a catch
equalization fund (IKr S4 million), various direct subsidies (1kr 46 million),
support for research and other services (IKr 258 million), and loan funds
(iKr 83 million). These are detailed in Table 22.
39.       The Fish Price Equalization Fund (FPEF).  This fund was established
* in 1969 as a statutory body for the purpose of evening out prices obtained by
processing plants and, when-necessary, subsidizing the fisheries. Its board



ANNEX 1
Page 8
consists of three members from the buyers (processors), three from the sellers
(fishing boat owners and fishermen) and one independent chairman. The board's
decisions are subject to the approval of the Yinistry of Fisheries. Its op-
erations and funds are handled by the Central Bank.
40.       In 1969 there were no transactions, but in 1970 three departments
were set up within FPEF - one for frozen fisheries products, one for meal
and oil (from capelin) and one fot salted products - and FPEF started to
collect money.
41.       Once or twice a year the board establishes reference prices for
products processed from the past season's catches. Reference prices are
changed according to changes in production cost. Fifty percent of the dif-
ference between actual cif prices obtained and the reference price is paid
into FPEF (or paid out by FPEF if cif prices fall below the reference prices).
Since fishing is the lead sector of the economy and its fortunes are quickly
transmitted throughout the economy, FPEF, which stabilizes the industry's
fortunes, is a stabilizer for the economy as well.
42.       During FPEF's short life some payments have been made (notably
to meal and oil producers during a slump in 1972), but generally it has
grown rapidly. Deposits in the first three years of operation are sum-
marized below:
1970             1971           1972
(final)       (provisional)   (estimates)
…_____________TIKr'OO0--------…----
Frozen fisheries products           325,039           541,866        32,000
Salted fisheries products             37,983          137,783         3,500
Capelin products                      31,742            17,079           -
Total                     394,764           696,728        40,500
By December 1972 the assets of FPEF amounted to IKr 1,254 million and as
export prices continued to rise, l1Cr 700 million was expected to be added
in the 1973 season. Thus, by the end of 1973, FPEF wou'ld have assets of
almost lKr 2,000 million (about 3% of projected GNP for 1973).
43.       Credit and the Fisheries Loan Fund (FLF).  Practically all banks
in Iceland (most of which are Government-owned) are concerned with the
fisheries in one way or another, but as a substantial part of longer-term
investment credit is obtained from a Government-owned fund., commercial banks
confine their lending operations largely to shorter-term operational credit.
The bank: are entitled to rediscount short-term commodity bills in associa-
tion with- fi..iaeries exports.  Tneir sending, to the fisneries industry and
loans grantecG by the Fisheries Loan Fund (FLF) for 1969-72 are shtown below:



ANNEX 1
Page 9
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972
1.  Bank lending to fisheries (IKr million) -   2,633  2,125  2,843  3,590
2. As % of total bank lending                 -    19.6% 13.2%  14.5%  15.3%
3. Lendings to fisheries by
investment credit funds (IKr million)  384    483    485    988  1,487
4. As % of total loans granted by
investment credit funds /a             24.4%  24.2% 23.4%  34.4%  36.8%
/a   Other important investment credit funds are the Agricultural Loan Fund,
the Municipal Loan Fund and the Regional Development Fund.
44.       Much of the financial aid to the country is provided through in-
vestment loans - either loans guaranteed by the Icelandic Treasury such as
those for building trawlers, or loans granted by FLF mainly for investment
in fishing boats and processing plants. FLF is virtually the only source
of long-term credit for fishing vessels or shore plants in Iceland. The
two most important commercial banks (Landsbanki and Utvegsbanki) each have
two representatives on the board of FLF and a representative from the Cen-
tral Bank (Sedlabanki) is the chairman.  Government, Central Bank and FLF
cooperate in drawing up the annual lending budget. All funds were formerly
derived from levies on exports of fisheries products, but in 1973, for the
first time, FLF will also get some money raised by the Government Develop-
ment Fund via indexed bonds; the portion on-lent to FLF will also be indexed. 1/
45.       Following favorable development of the fisheries up to 1966 and
corresponding increases in investments, there was a noticeable recession with
smaller demands for investment credit. However, by 1973, since export fish
prices had improved considerably, there was a strong demand for loans for
building boats and plants and for improving plants to comply with the stricter
hygienic standards which are now demanded by Iceland's main export markets.
46.       FLF lends for construction of fishing boats, covering up to three-
fourths of construction cost for boats built in Iceland and up to two-thirds
for boats built abroad. For boats built in Iceland some additional loans
may be obtained from a Regional Development Fund. Amortization period is
up to 20 years and the interest rate is 5.5%. Loans may also be granted
at the same rate of interest for one-half of the cost of rebuilding and
reconstructing fishing boats and for two-thirds of the fob value of new
engines (but no fitting expenses). For sonar, navigational and other
equipment up to one-half of the cost may be granted as loans.
1/   In 1972 the Development Fund lent !Kr 595 million to the Fisheries Loan
Fund.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
47.       For processing plants, loans may be granted for up to 60% of the
total cost of buildings and machinery. Normally, however, suppliers' credit
is arranged by Landsbanki for all imported machinery and equipment.  Repay-
ment period is 12 to 15 years for loans granted by FLF to processing plants
and the interest rate is 7%. Some loans are also granted for constructing
shipyards and slipways.
48.       All loans are secured by mortgage in assets.  With foreign loans,
the ultimate borrower carries the foreign exchange risk. An increase of
about 2% in the interest rate for all categories of loans is now being con-
sidered.
49.       Balance sheet and profit and 1oss account for the Fisheries Loan
Fund for 1972 are reproduced in Table 23. Export levies accounted for 14%
of the Fund's income while Treasury's counterpart contribution accounted for
10% and interest earned 75%.
50.       The distribution of loans granted by the Fund in 1971 and 1972 was
as follows:
1971                  1972
IKr M        %        IKr M            %
Fishing vessels                   763.8        47.1     932.3            73.8
Processing Plants                 850.2        52.4     302.9            24.0
Shipbuilding yards and other        7.3         0.5       28.1            2.2
Total                1,621.3       100.0   1,263.3           100.0
51.       Outstanding loans at the end of 1972 amounted to IKr 4,333 million.
Total equity capital amounted to IKr 1,746 million, 31% of the Fund's total
assets.
52.       The collection record has improved considerably since 1969 with
the introduction of a special fund to which 10% of gross catch values is
automatically paid directly to Sedlabanki to be used for debt service only.



IGELA.ND                                          .4N1 .X 1
FISHING HARBORS PREHABILITATION PROJECT                           Table 1
Quantity and Value of Fish Catches by Individual Species 1969-1971
Is                                                    (Tons sid IKr 100O
1969                     1970                      1971
Species                                   Quantity      Value       Quantity      Value       Quantity      Value
Cod                                       286,603      1,794,881    308,336       2,246,o06    254,977    2,470,186
Haddock                                    35,040        327,860     31,833         346,485     32,377       446,764
Pollock                                    54,007.       356,235     63,907         444,313     60,177       494,525
Whiting                                       367          2,683        232           2,187        331         2,460
Norway Pout                                   886          1,576 /    2,890           5,027      3,030         5,401
Ling                                        8,689         48,175      8,344          53,866      8,869        74,669
Blueling                                      339          4,596        394           6,114         705        6,950
Tusk                                        4,250         23,145      4, 413         26,995      3,864        32,551
Catfish                                     7,675         45,854      5,717          39,418      5,292        49,198
Catfish Spotted                                44             50         16              24         36            87
Monk                                          957          5,930        601           4,393        606         5,413
Redfish                                    28,521        221,470     24,809         250,980     31,706       321,835
Halibut                                       898         24,401      1,12L          32,201      1,301       141,89 4
Greenland Halibut                           5,881         50,820      7,345          77,191      5,022        66,068
Plaice                                     10,770        156,025      8,117         131,682       7,179      114,116
Lemon Sole                                    453          8,228        328           7,579        283         5,942
Witch                                          166           842        169             933         125          829
Megrim                                         172           794         117            932          6,          520
Dab                                            76            359         11              94          12          115
Skate                                         631          2,7214       470           2,273         468        2,622
_ogfish                                        14             81          19            103         35           197
Greenland Shark                                22            103         26             115         51           632
Porbeagle                                       1             42           7             98          -           -
Unspecified                                 14,039         9,333      4,937          13,178      4,4154        9,803
Total Whitefish Catch                450,501     3,086,207    474,162        3,692,187    420,961    4,152,777
Herrirg                                    56,588        442,242     51,371         715,924     61,341       829,335
Capelin                                   171,009        139,501    191,763         230,712    182,882       283,684
Total Herring Catch                  227,597       581,743    243,134          946,636    244,223    1,113,019
Lobster                                     3,511        120,251      4,026         162,516       4,657      210,923
Shrimp                                      3,276         39,295       4,510         68,960      6,500       128,702
Total Crustaceans                      6,787        159,546      8,536         231,L76     11,15'7      339,625
Scallop                                       402          3,065/1   2,L32           20,606       3,658       33,687
Squid                                                          1 
Total                                    1402         3,066      2,432          20,606      3,658        33,687
Lump Fish                                   3,012         33,130 A    3,762          65,478 /1   3,543        61 I103
Mackerel                                      612          1,273      1,582           9,214         743       1a,18L
Silver Smelt                                   -           -            -              -            -          -
Total Other Catch                      3,624         37,403      5,3414         74,692      L,286        71,287
Grand Total                     688,911     3,867,965    733,608       4,965,606    684,285    5,710,395
/j Estimated Value



F:SHIN'. VAfii5ihS PXHAPF.k,IT 'AI   ON PEiJC'CT
Economic Significance of Natural Resources  lf iceland 1371
( 1Kr i,dllionl)
Factors              - Production at
sf Production               Factor Cost                  Allocation at Market Prices
Man-    Capital1        Value  2            2         T
ResouCres and  Industries                                   years    Assets           Added        Outputt          Total         Exports      Zosestic /3
1.  Resource-based Industries
1.  Fishing, fish-processing
and whaling                                     12,071    13,497           6,131.5    10,894.3        12,350.1      21,056.0         1.294.1
2.  Agriculture and its
processing indusries                            11,162    15,079           4,0o0.7      6,875.6        5,960.3          789.5        4,698.5
3.  Power and energy-based
induetr-ies                                      I ,573    19,697          2,341.6      3,677-i        3,97'1.1        8n  6         3,063.5
4.  Minerals (and enerey)
'industries                                        529        822            375.0        837.4          855.3          157.2          698.1
Fesource-based Industries
Total                                         _ 5i_22.±a,°95             12,928.8    22,254.4         23,136.8      12,890.3        9,774.2
II.  Non-resource-based Irndustries
5.  Manufacturing industries
other than I.                                  1l1,975     6,082           5,360.5    11,508.0        12,277.4          166.3      12,111.2
6.  Construction                                     9,6p32       588          5,850.0    10,250.0        10,500.0           -          10, 500.0
7.  ('ommerce                                       12,686      9,60           6,o400.o        -               -          1,200.0
8.  T ansportation and communi-
cations                                         '7,273    31,84o           3,'700.0        -              -          4,950.0
9.  Services                                        17,634    16,283           0,300°.         -                            555.°
10.  Residential housing end
unspecified                                      _713    54,021              4oo.7                                   2,490.0 o
Non-resource-based
Industries Ibtal                                5,813   118,424          30,611.2    21,758.0         22,277.4       9,482.3 L5   22,6t11.2
National Economy Total                          85,208   167,519-         43,540. o    44,012.4       45,914.2      22,372.6 /4   32,385.4
peoruducible capital assets, coniorming to asset formation definitions.
/2   Excluding accruals to price equalization iund, JICr 687.1 nillion, ahich Is to he considered part of value added and ontput.
T3   Tncluded in dornestic allocation is increase in export stoeks in categorio I1 - 4 in the aerount o0 TyY  1,483 million.
Thiereo!' merchandise exports IKr 13,173 million anrd ser-rices TKr 9,195 Tdiii iC
77   T-luding IK-' 121 millior ungpectried merchandise exports nno  entered uwior a:,; nuc-]  *'.,
n,,i roe:  Fconomni r Be-re upme t Insu itutte
*                                                                                 * 



ANNEX 1
ICELAND                          Table 3
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Export Trade 1968-72
(IKr million)
1968        1969        1970         1971       1972
Total Exports                    7,236       9g1466      12,915       13,175    16,695
A.  Total Marine Products        6,357        7,736      10,111       11,o56    12,318
'Whitefish                  4,126         5,597       7,300        8,289     8,925
Frozen                       2,194        3,109       4,535        5,330     5,558
On Ice                        315           513         724          403       402
Salted                      1,042         1,027       1,163        1,677     2,075
Stockfish                     228           411         240          247       292
Meal                           267          439         522          525       531
Oil                             80           98         116          107        67
Herring and Capelin         1,579         1,267       1,1484       1,341     1,538
Frozen                          54           18           9           148       80
On Ice                          74          215         427          614       535
Salted                         868          420         456          143       168
O          Meal                           378          375          493         457       622
Oil                            205          239          g9           79       133
Lobster, Shrimp, and
Other Shellfish              255          345         568          806     1,175
Canned Fish Products           93           123         143          177       230
Miscellaneous                  304  -       404         616          443       450
B.  Total Agricultural Products   626           591          423         400       515
Meat                           225          296         189          154       185
Dairy Products                 57            35          57           82        94
Other                          344          260          177         164       236
C.  Total Manufactured Products   109           850       2?228        1,600     3,651
Aluminurm                       -           519       1,708          888     2,716
Diatonite                       -            65         127          157       194
Hides and Skins                 43           69         166          195       267
Wool Products                   66          121          154         194       325
Other                           -            76           73         166       149
D.  Miscellaneous                  144          289          153         119       2t1
0
Source: Economic Development Institute.



ICELIAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Some Indicators o  Fisheries Development 1963-72
1963      196h      1965      1966      1967      1968      1969    1970       1971      1972
A.  Total Quantities landed              782.0    971-5  1 199.0  1.240.3    86.            91           9    729.9    680.7    7
('6                                                                                      -      __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_2  _~9_ Z3
Whit-fish (demersal Sp.)             379.9    415.3    381.7    339.4    333-5    373.1    450.7    b,!5.7    421.7    399.2
Herring (demersal Sp.)               395.2    54.14    762.9    770.7    461.5   1143.1           57.0      51.4     61.3       43.3
aipelin (demersal Sp.)                 1.1       8.6      49.8    124.9      97.2      78.2    171.0    191.8    182.9    277.7
Lobster,  Shrimp and shellfish         5.8       3.2       4.5       5.3       4.2       5.0       7.2      11.0      14.8      15.5
B. Value of Total Landings
(at 1962 Prices){TKr MJ            1,608.1  1,825.!t  1,992.4  1,954.8  1,57/5.7  1,419.9  1,593.4  1,680.0  1,575.8   1,473.4
C._Dispsition of Total. Lardin_s
( '000 tons )
Fmh and frozen                       2614.2    253.      261.2    221.6    228.7    29L4.2    3148.8    386.o    373.7           -
Salting and drying                   223.41   231.1    2014.3    201.4    183.14    159.3    146.6    137.9    111.5             -
For reductiun                        279.2   1472.6    718.8    3C6.1   1475.7    137.2    180.0    197.7    188.5               -
Other utilization                     15.2      14.3      14.7      11.2       8.6       8.7      10.5       8.3       7.0       -
D    . Fishing Fleet ('000 GRT)              -         -      8n.8      80.3      86.1      84.i      79.3       78.7     78.9      82,5
E.  Production of Marine Products
Total Ihr M                        3,761.2  3,959.7   ,5,05.14  14,362.3  3,392-6  2,866.9  3,337.0  3,531.4  3,3142.8
F.  Gross Lendings to Fisheries by
Investment  Funds   IKr M                -     33L.0    293.0    226.O    2142.0    389.0    511.0    496.0    8142.0  1,190.C
Based on ccnstsnt f'ob  orices of 1963.
*                                                              0                                                               0



ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fish Landings2/ and Their Value./ by Species Groups 1963 - 1972
Estimates
1963        1964        1965        1966         1967        1968        1969         1970        1971        1972
Thousand Tons
Total Quantities Landed             782.0       971-5      1,199.0    1,240.3        896.4       599.4        685.9       729.9       680.7        735.7
Wthitefish                          379.9        415.3       381.7       339.4-   333.5           373.1       450.7        475.7       421.7       399.2
Herring and capelin                 396.3        553.0       812.7       895.6        558.7       221.3       228.0        243.2       244.2       321.0
Herring                          395.2        544.4       762.9       770.7       461.5        143.1        57.0         51.4        61.3        43.3
Capelin                            1.1         8.6         49.8       1244.9       97.2         78.2       171.0       191.8        182.9       277.7
Lobster, shrimp and shellfish         5.8          3.2         4.6         5.3         4.2          5.0         7.2         11.0        14.8        15.5
IKr million at !962 Prices
Value of Total landings           1,608.1    1,825.4       1,992.4     1,954.8     1,575.7     1,X419.9                 1,68.0       1,575.8     1 473 4
Whitefish                         1,075.8     1,170.7      1,071.0       962.9       936.3      1,035.6     1,262.4          -           -
Herring and capelin                 484.4       629.9        888.6       954.2       605.5        349.0       278.7          -           -
Herring                          483.7        625.1       861.0       899.2       551.9        305.3       183.14         -           -
Capelin                            0.7         4.8         27.6        55.0        53.6         43.7        95.3          -
Lobster, shrimp and shellfish        47.9         24.8        32.8        37.7        33.9         35.3        52.3          _
IKr million at Current Prices
Value of o                        1,683.2    27127.5       2,678.3     2,702.1     2,106.9      2,285.2     3,101.1     3 991.3      4,797.5 _
Whitefish                         1,147,8      1,353.7     1,338.5     1,363.2      1,396.7     1,769.1     2,505.5      3,029.9     3,491.9         -
Herring and capelin                 1488.7       749.0     1,293.5     1,283.6       659.2        451.0       473.1        763.4     1,001.7         -
Herring                          488.o       745.8      1,265.4     1,204.9       619.1        417.4       363.o        572.7       767.3         -
Capelin                            0.7         3.2         28.1        78.7        40.1         33.6       110.1       190.7        234.4         -
Lobster, shrimp and shellfish        46.7         24.8        38.3        55.3        51.0         65.1       122.5        198.0       303.9         -
Indices ol' Total Catch                                                   1963 = 100
The catch                           100.0       124.2        153.3       158.6       114.6         76.(        87.7         93.3        87.0        94.1
The value at 1962 prices            100.0       113.5        123.9       121.6        98.0         88.3        99.1        104.5        98.0        91.6
The value at current prices         100.0       126.4        158.6       160.5       125.2        135.8       184.2        237.1       285.0         -
E Excluded is the catch of lumpfish.
E    The value at share prices, which after 1968 exclude a certain percentage paid by the processing plants to boat-owners.
_    Preliminary figures.
/4   The value of catch 3971 and 197? is based on changes in quantity as measured at fish prices prevailing at the beginning of 1972.                             oD



ICELAND
FISHING HABORS REHABILiTATION PROJECT
Total LandingsLI of Demersal Species by Ports
January-May, 1964-72
1264                                 1 j6               1967               1968               1969               1970               1971               1972
Habor  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~          '"'~~'~~~'          '~~'~             ~     ~            000 tons           OOOtton
Halrborrns   7                             tons    _    3000 tolls 1000         t o   tons  '000 tons            '1000 tons  o                         000 tons '_
Hotnafj5-dur                      4.     1.8           5.4   2.9        5.0     3.1        5.7     4.3       7.3      5.2       6.7      4.1       7.2       3.7     7.0      4.5         6.7    4.5
Vestmwnnaey;ar                   46.8    20.7         39.3  21.1      26.8    16.5       26.9    20.5       28.3    20.0       33.6    20.2       41.o      20.8    25.9     16.6        22.7   15.2
Stokkseyri                        2.5      1.1         2.4   1.3        2.1     1.3       1i6      1.2       1.7      1.2       3.8      2.3       3.7       1.9     3.3      2.1         2.7    1.8
b)rrarbpkki                       1.7     0.7          2.3   1.2        1.7     1.1       1.9.    1.5        1.9      1.3       2.8      1.'!      2.9       1.5     2.7       1.7        2.4    1.6
Thorliksh;fni                    11.9      5.3         7.1.  3.8        4.6     2.8        5.1     3.9       4.3      3.0       7.9      4.7       9.6       4.9     8.8       5.7        7.7    5.2
Grindavlk                        22.3     9.9         18.7  10.0       19.0    11.7      16.1    12.3       19.8    14.0       18.9    11.4       20.2      10.3    18.6      12.0       17.5   11.7
Sandgerdi                        12,9      5.7         7.4   4.0        7.7     4,7       4.7      3.6       7.5      5.3       7.9      4.8      10.7       5,4     7.3       4.7        6.8    4.5
G5rdur,                           5.1      2,2         3.9   2.1        4.7     2.9        4.5     3.4       7.0      5.0       7.9      4.7       8.3       4.2     7.3      4.7         7.5    5.1
Kef'lavik                        22.5    10.0         16.2   8.7       14.1     8.7      13.9    10.6       14.7    10.4       21,2    12.8       26.0      13.2    21.0      13.5       18.5   12,4
Njardvikur                        3.3      1.5         3.0   1.6        3.5     2.2        2.4     1.8       3.3      2.3       2.7      1.6       4.6       2.3     3.6       2.3        2.9    2.0
Vogar                             1.8      0.8         1.8   1.0        1,6     1.0        1,0     0.8       1.9      1.3       2.6      1.6       2.5       1.3     2.3       1.5        2.1    1.4
HafnarfiOrdAur                   22.0      9          15.4   8.3       14.0     8.6        9,7     7.4        5.3     3.8       7.0      4.2      10.2       5.2     8.0       5.1        7.3    4.9
Heykjavik                        34.9    15.4         30.1  16.1       24.7    15.2       13,5    10.3      16.o    11U3       23.4    14.1       22.0      11,1    14.7       9.5       12.3    8.3
Akranes                          13.6      6.o         9.1   4.9        8.4     5.2        8.0o    6.1       8.3      5.9       8.9      5.4       9.6       4.9     8.4      5s.4        7.5    5.0
Rif og Helliss                    4.0      1.7         5.1   2.7        5.3     3.2        4.6     3.5       4.0      2.8       3.0      1.8       4.7       2.4     4.2       2.7        6.0    4.0
Olafsvfk                          8.8      3.9         9.4   5.0        9.9     6.1        6.6     5.1       6.3      4.5       4.4      2.7       7.8       3.9     7.7       4.9       11.2    7.5
G'undarfjordur                    4.11    1.8          5.3   2.8        4.2     2.6        2.2     1.7       2.0      1.4       2.0      1.2       3. 3      1.7     2.6       1.7        3.9    2.6
Stykkishblmur                     3.9      1.7         4.7   2.5        5.1     3.1        2.7     2.1        2.0     1.4       1.4      0.8       2.8       1,4     2.3       1.5        3.4    2.3
Total                        226,2   100.0        186.4 100.0     162.2   100.0      130.9   100.0      141.5   100.0      166.3   100.0      197.0    100.0   155.8    100.0        .49.3  100.0
ILandingsby  Trawln                           _- G     e       .                       _____              ___________________ __
t; Iandings by Trawlers of more than 500 GRT excluded.



ICELAND                          ANNEX 1
Tmo.Le *f~
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATON P1QJECT
South Coast Fishing FleetZi
GRT
Group                Hornafjordur    Vestmannaeyjar    Thorl2ksh5fn    Grindavik
----------------------Number of Boats----------------------
0  -12                     2                 7                2                7
13 -25                     -                 7                -                1
26 -50                                     1)4                1                4
51 -100                   11               29                 6               1)4
101-150                    4               12                 7                9
151-200                    _                4                 3                8
201-250                     1                2                -1
*      251-300                    1                 1                -                3
Total                 19               76               19                47
GRT                1,768            5,723            1,8)4)4           4,689



ANNEX 1
Table 8
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Landings of Demersal Fish by Catching Methods 1971
Total
Iceland                   Vestniannaeyjar
Tons          %             Tons          %
Longline             59,383         17.1           1,718        4.0
Gillnet             126,355         36.5          16,363       38.2
Shore seine
Purse seine         6,875          2.0             424        1.0
Line-and-hook        29,982          8.7             989        2.3
Drifting gillnet      5,712          1.6             -           _
Trawl               109,382         31.6          21,610       50.4
Lobster trawl         8.,721         2.5           1,760        4.1
Total
All Methods         346,410        100.0          42,864      100.0
Source:  "Aegir", biweekly newsletter issued by the Fisheries-Association
of Iceland.



0                                                                                                                                                              0
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Landings of Fish (excluding capelin) by Ports and Months
in the Soath and Southwest Area 1971 - 1972
Horns-     Vestmanna-      Stokks-    Eyrar-      Thorlsks-    Grinda-    Sand-       Kefla-               Hafnar-     Reykja-
fjordur          ar         eyri      bakki         h6fn          vik      gerdi       vik       Vogar    fjordur        vik        Akranes     Tot e
1971
January               475           884          123          26         452         2,676      1,089     1,068       178          549         731         885      9,136
February              636         2,535          158          49       1,700         4,711      1,006     1,338        199         197         953         755     14,237
March               2,854         8,435          959         475       4,573        10,770      3,092     4,689       687        1,439       3,368       1,781     43,122
April               2,735         9,152        1,782       1,133       9,515        16,026      4,914     4,427        860       1,395       4,320       3,844     60,102
MAy                   429         5,575          321         223       2,332         6,532      3,520     3,206        262       2,086       6,675       1,996     33,157
June                  476         6,403          208         189       1,221         2,201      1,325     1,o26         32       1,728       4,661       2,256     21,726
July and August       585         7,100          261         259       1,639         2,553      1,834     1,536         74       2,547      11,192       2,143     31,723
September             176         1,504           60          41         397           752        757       491        14        1,245       4,425         783     10,645
October               114         1,082           -           24         261           868        504       447         -         888        2,336         399      6,923
November              142           773                       17         375           430        374     1,021         33         377         728         176      4,446
December                2           367                       -          1              445       248        466        17      _ 53             6         272      3430
Total catch Jan. Dec.  8,624        43,810        3,872       2,436      22,659        47,963     18,663    19,715     2,356        2,4        40.355                238,64-
1972
January                83           876            9          -          238         1,446        859     1,276        174          66         907         437      6,371
February            1,147         2,753           34          87       2,120         3,599      2,267     4,050        231         787       2,170       1,020     20,265
March               2,691         8,255          529         576       4,948         7,915      3,222     6,692        205       1,971       5,533       2,164      44,701
April               2,670         9,295        1,096         790       5,232        12,800      4,086      5,475       621       2,195       5,698       2,424      52,382
May 1 - 15             99         1,201          132         153         791         2,850      1,413      1,664        85       1,101       4,924       1,608     16,021
May 16 - 31 and June  275         5,431          109         167       1,760         2,455      1,184        696       125         990       4,218       1,212      18,622
July and August       588         5,899          221         301       1,553         3,254      1,990     1,345         31       2,899       9,985       2,144      30,210
September             239         1,085           -           50         408           664        546        541        18         898       2,785         562      7,786
October               113         1,030           -           -          120           913        374        865        39         559       1,572          185      5,770
November               64         1535            13          21         340       _,366           343     1200         34         227       1,269          528     6,940
Total catch Jan.-Nov.  7,969        37,360        2143        2,145      17,510        37,252    16,284    23,804       1,563         693       9,061      12,284   209,o68
Source:  Fisheries Association of Iceland



ANNEX 1
ICE LND                    Table 10
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Capelin Landings by Ports 1971 - 73
Ports                                1971                 1972                  1973
Tons       %         Tons        %         Tons         %
Raufarhofn                                 -           -         -         .6,386      1.5
Vopnafjordur                                -          -         -         5,800       l.3
Seydisfjordur                   2,466     1.3        1,421     0.5        28,500       6.5
Neskaupstadur                  12,307     6.7        9,278     3.3        38,662       8.9
Eskifjordur                    10,065     5.5       15,091     5.4        29,477       6.7
Faskrudslfjordur                3,703     2.0        3,093      1.1       13,795       3.2
Stodvarfjordur                 3,061      1.7        6,127     2.2        13,901       3.2
Djupivogur                     3,543      1.9        2,244     0.8        10,089       2.3
Breiddalsvik                      610     0.3          529      0.2        6,485       1.5
Reydarfjordur                     226     0.1          -         -        16,214       3.7
Hornafjordur                    7,654     4.2       13,388     4.8        16,621       3.8
Vestmannaeyjar                54,331    29.7        89,158    32.1        23,299       5.3
Thorlakshofn                   6,242      3.4       10,256     3.6        21,150       4.8
Grindavik                       4,144     2.3        8,330     3.0        18,961       4.3
Sandgerdi                       7,773     4.3       14,132     5.1        14,765       3.4
Keflavik                       13,390     7.3       23,616     8.5        38,321       8.8
Hafnarfjordur                  14,332     7.8       13,44.     4.8        22,803       5.2
Reykjavik                      27,162    14.9       39,187    14.1        51,252      11.7
Akranes                        11,134     6.1       20,714      7.5       27,205       6.2
Patreksfjoniur                    -         -          -         -         3,300       0.8
Talknafj ordur                                                   -         1,016       0.2
Bolungarvik                         3      -         5,376      1.9        9,975       2.3
Sigluffjorlur                     -        -         2,246     0.8         8,102       1.9
Krossanes                         -        --                   -            760       0.2
Others                            734     0.4          -         -           -          -
Total                         182,880   100.0      277,648   100.0      436,839      100.0



ANNEX I
Table 11
ICELAND
FUMTSHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Capelin Landings by Fishing Ports
on the South and Southwest Coasts
by Weeks, 1972 and 1973
('000 Tons)
Horna-     Vestmanna-      Thorlaks-      Grinda-       Sand-      Kefla-     Hafnar-      Reykja-
Week       fj6rdur        eyjar           hofn           vik         gerdi      vik        fj8rdur       vl'k        Akranes      Total
1972
24/1-30/1        3.5         17.4             0.1            -            -          -            -                 -                 20.9
31/1-6/2          -           9.4             1.3           2.3          2.6        4.2          3.3        6.8           4.1         34.l
7/2-13/2         1.2         18,2             3.2           2.3          3.4        7.3          4.7       15.2           6.3         61.9
14/2-20/2        4.9         12.1             2.0           1.6          1.8        2.6          0.9        5.7           3.4         35.0
21/2-27/2        1.1         17.0              1.4          1.4          2.8        3.2          0.7         4.7           3.7        36.1
28/2-5/3         o.6           9.1             2.0          0.7          1.7        2.0          2.8         3.3          1.7         24.0
6/3-12/3         1.0           5.8             0.3            .          0.8        4.1          1.1         3.5          1.6         18.,
13/3-19/3        1.1           0.1              -             -          0.9         _-                       -             -          2..
20/3-24/3         -             -                                        -          -                         -           -
Total 1972      13.4         89.2             10.3          8.3         14.1       23.6    ,  13.4          39.2         20.7        232.2
1973
O        24/1-3/2         2.1            _-                                        -                 -                 - _                       2.1
4/2-10/2         4.2            -              3.6          1.3          0.4        1.0          0.4         0.3           0.4        11.6
11/2-17/2        2.0          0.2              2.4           2.3         0.4        0.8          1.8         1.0           0.4        11.3
1le!s-24/2       1.0          1.0             2.5           6.1          2.3        3.1          1.6         5.1           3.3        26.0
25/2-3/3         2.3          2.8             2.2           3.1          2.6        5.8          8.7        10.4          10.7        48.0
4/3-10/3         1.7          6.1             2.9           2.8          3.3        8.6          3.2         6.7           4.8        40.1
11/3-17/3        0.9          7.3              1.3           1.7         1.7        4.9          1.1         7.8           2.9        29.f
18/3-24/3        0.3          6.o             2.3           1.8          1.3        5.7          2.0         6.1           1.6        2il.,N
25/3-31/3        o.6            -              0.8            -          1.0        3.3          0.8         4.1           2.3         1'
1/14-7/4          -             _              1.1            -          1.3        3.2          2.8         7.2           o.8         If".I
1/4-14/4         12-                           2.2            -          0.5        1.8          0.4         2.5            _           4.0
s/4-2i/4         0.3                            -             -           -                       -          0.3
Total 1973      16.6         23.3            21.2          19.0         14.8       38.3         22.8        51.3          27.2       234.4'
Source:  Fisheries Association of Iceland



ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fish Landings_by Species Groups and Processi   Methods
Species and Mode
of Processing,                            1963       1964       1965        1966       1967       1968       1969        1970
--                     - ------  WnguttedWight in '000 Tons -----------
Whitefish
O)n ice                                40.2       39.9       35.4       26.1        25.5       28.8       39.9       49.5        23.0
Frozen                                174.5      183.8      185.4      163.4      167.2       202.2      269.4      284.0       277.5
Stock-fish                             74.3       84.1       54.4       54h0        59.4       15.2       44.9        31.2       -3.3
Salted                                 72.5       89.7       88.8       82.8        70.5      115.2       82.3       96.2       101.7
Fo-' reduction                          3.6        3.7        3.2        2.2         2.5        4.6        7.3         7.7       10.2
Domestic consumption                   14.9       14.0       14.5       10.9         8.5        7.0        6.3         5.5        6.o
T'otal                            380.0      415.2       381.7      339.4      333.6      373.0       450.1      474.1      421.7
Herring and Capelin                                                        _
Herring salted                         76.6       57.3       61.1       64i.6       53.5       28.9       19.4        10.5        6.5
Herring frozen and iced                43.6       26.5       35.5       26.5        31.6       57,0       32.3        38.3.      52.8
Capelin frozen and canned               0.1        0.1        0.4        0.3         0.3        1.2        2.1         3.2        5.6
Herring canned                          0.3        0.3        0.1         0.3        0.1        1.3        1.5         1.2        1.0
Herring for -eduction                 267.1      46o.4      666.2      679.2       376.4       55.7         3.8        1.4        1.0
Capelin for reduction                   8.5        8.5       49.4      124.7        96.8       76.9      168.9      188.6       177.3
Total                              96.           .1      812.7      895.6      5587        221.0      228.0      243.2      244.2
Shrimp, Lobster and Shellfish           5.8        3-2        4.5         5.3        4.2        5.0        7.2        11.0       14.8
Other Fish                               _          _           _                     -         2.4         3.6        5.3        3.6
Total rate-h                      782.0       971 5   1,198.9  1]240.3         896J5       601.4      688.9      733.6       684.3
Source:  Economic Development Instituite
*                          *                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



ICELAND
FI25 023 00RS2 RHABITZTATION PROJC2
Utilization of the Fish Ladings by Individual                     T      b 3
Tuociso and ?rooeenilc lMethode 1963-71
(Tooc)
Yr.sh On                                          Lo,etic
seds,                      ICe      Frozeo   Stovkfish   Canned Salted   Cone,upt.  Oilhal Soke              Total
Cod                              7,256    153,807     2,910        49    88,979     1,926        50        -      254,977
Haddock                          2 918     25,630         69       30       107     3,406         17       -       32,377
Pollook                          6,796     42,869         75        -    10,343         7        87        -       60,177
Whiting                             39        202         -         -         -         3         87       -          331
Nor-ay Pont                          -          -    -         -              -         -      3,030       -        3,030
Ling                               144      6,S13          1        -     1,480        31         -        _        8,869
Bla. Ling                           94        391          -                220         -         -        -          705
Tusk                                87       3,203       155        -       400         17         2       _        3.864
Catfish                            450      4,708         72        -         2        52         12       _        5,292
Honk                                22         583         _ -                -          1         -       _          606
Reddish                          1,931      26,761         -        _         -        81      2,933       -       31,706
Halibut                            236        950          8        -         2       105         -        -        1,301
Oreenland Halibut                    -       4,970         -                 49         -          3                5,022
PlaieG                           1,668       5,382         _        _         -        112        17       -        7,179
CaMOOSOla                           88         195         _        _         _         _          _       _          283
Other Flat Fiah SP.                 130        166         -        -         -          2         -       _           198
Skate                               63         271                           8 87      43          4       -          468
Unspecified                        136         272         6        _         6        158     3,998       _        4,576
Total lhitefieh  Catch 1971     22,258    277,469      3,296       79   101,675      5,941    10,240       -      420,961
Whit.fi.h Catch:
1970                            47,871    283,943    31,178       316    96,190     5,302      9,206      156     474,162
1969                            40,047    269,387    44,819       182    82,406     6,341      7,277       41     450,500
1968                            28,812    202,237    15,174       179   115,178     7,003      4,431        3    373,017
1967                            24,355    167,203    59,396        18    70,454     8,540      2,515        4     333,805
l966                            26,116    163,371    54,021        27    82,751    10,936      2,171       18     339,407
1965                            35,378    185,409    54,365        32    88,832    14,581      3,159       -      381,756
1966                            39 892    183,849    84,118        27    89,686    18,086      3,687       -      415,305
1963                            40,174    178,486    74,256        47    72,458    14,907      3,573       -      379,896
R-rring,
1971                            48,326      4,468         -       978     6,445        14      1,124       _       61,341
1970                            33,672      8,662         _    1,189    10,468          -      1,365       -       S1,370
1969                            27,773      4,177         -    1,451    19,379          -      3,808       -       56,588
1968                            49,203       7,776        _    1,226    28,834          11    55,712       18     142,820
1967                            16,165      15,390        -        65    53,469         9   376,420        15    1861,533
1966                             1,898      24,655        -       336    64,602         -   679,207        -      770,698
1965                             2,950      32,599        _       963    61,081         -   665,337        -      762,930
1964                             1,394      26,420        -       270    57,297         -   460,409        -      545,790
1963                             5,802     37,723         -       296    76,642         -   274,704        -      395,167
Capelin,
1971                                         5,572s       -       -                     -    173,310      -       182,882
1970                                         2,922        -       229         _         _    188,612      -       191,763
1969                                         2,109        -        14         -         -    168,886      -       171,009
1968                                 -       1,248        -       -           -         -      76,918     _        78,166
1967                                 -         345        -                   -         -      96,820     _        97,165
1966                                           267        -       -           -         -    124,666      -       124,933
1965                                           363         -                                   4 _  _  89,372  -   49,735
1964                                           133        -       -           -         -       9,507     -         8,640
1963                                           188         -      -           -         -         889     _          1,077
1971                                 -       4,657         -      _           -         -          _      _         4,657
1970                                         4 h,025       -      -           -         -           -     -         4,026
1969                                 -       3511                                                                   3,511
1968                                         2,486        -       -                                                 2,489
1967                                 -       2,731        -       _           _         _          _      _         2,731
1966                                 -       3,459        -       _           _         _           -     -         3,465
1965                                 -       3,706        -       -           -         -           -     -         3,706
1964                                         3,387        -       _           _         _          _      _         3,387
1963                                  2      5,177        -       _           _            _                        5,179
Shrisp.
1971                                 -      6,455                  21        -           21         3     -         6,500
1970                                 -      4,384          -      109        -           17         -               48,510
1969                                 -      3,211         -        57        -            8         -     _         3,276
1968                                        2,339         -       113        -           -          -     -          2,h52
1967                                 -       1,424        -        84        -           _          _     _         1,508
1966                                        1,727                  63        -           _          _                1,790
1965                                 -        711         -       190        -           -          -     -           901
1964                                 -        344          -      198        -           -          -     -           542
1963                                 -        507         -       141              -                -     -           648
Shellfiahs
1971                                         3,658        -       -          -            -         -     _          3,658
1970                                 -      2,432          _      _          _           _                           2,432
1969                                 -         402         -      -          -           -          -     -            402
Oth*r Catch
1971                                724         19         -      _          _            _         _     _          43866 /
1970                             1,582          -          -      -          -            _         _      _         5,3447
1969                               612          -         -                                                          3,624
1268                               352          -         -       -          -           -          -     -          2,817
1967                               105          -          -      -          -            -         -      -         1,291
1966                                                                    -                                            2,778
Total Catch
1971                            71,308    302,296      3,296    1,078   180,120      5,965    188,677     -       680,742
1970                            82,505    302,368    31,178    1,843   106,658       5,318    199,184    156       729,211
1969                            68,432    282,797    44,819    1,704   101,785      6,349    179,971      41       688,910
1968                            78,367    216,086    15,174    1,558   148,012       9,081    137,062      21      601,361
1967                            41,625    187,093    59,396       167   123,923      9,713    475,755     12       897,691
1966                            28,014    193,479    54,021       426   147,353    10,943    806 044       18    1.240,294
1965                            38,328    222,7837    54,365    1, 185   149'913    14,581    n717e69      -     1,199'028
1%64                            41,286    214,314    84,1l8       494   146 984    14,046    472'602       -       973,664
1 963                           45,975    218,081    74,256       484   149,100    14,907    279,166       -       781,969
Source, pihwbeies bsoteation of Iceland
1l Incuded in tho  ige  are 3,5413 natrlt  tone  fO   pfbih ,hiCh cannot be ttaohed to a certaln uttl-atio-
process -a tn met oaee  otnly the 1u.pVfih roee  re utili od.  If total figure.,  re rdded together they do not
oceonro to the total Catch bcause of thle.






FISHING 1130BS OEhAILITATION P'OJOFT
-000t of  is Otoocc,Q     -.ottisoa-o 1960 - 1971
(Tons sod IF: OGO)
1966                                          1900~~~~122  -L            1911
*  -RtitY  -Value         Qusutity                         tQuhity l90l19
I Frzsen Frod,-ts
7i 11t1                                53,035    1,434,630        70,365    3,023,975       74,033    3,923,749        74,230     5.41S,936
ini-od. quic Ftro.e-                    6,891       97,944        8,155       171,255       10,39        226,7-98       9,045       230,647
OFFal                                   i45,036     1 7393         6, 70       33,525       3S,662                      2.607        12, 04
1,066       016 396       1,667        52,009        2:,730      10295          2,74        1093,936
Milt                                      -            -             -            _             414        1,904          _             -
TociI    -oors,h,t-sOlh Prodt otc   66,338    1,570,709        86,8s2    3,20,644        93,063    6,289,481       06,G88    5,770.981
0                                     2. ~~~~~~~~H-orlnof-looOl
1..F. 4& filisto                        4,430       38,791           416        4,992            5           113
BPit he -i                                _            -           2,426       24,260         4,420       72,930         3,11O       51,315
0aobrlio                                  -            -            750         5,850        2,622        20.533        5,44S        65,985
OtotS 12noon loccioc  vo-ductc       4,o30       38,791         3,592       35,010         7,047       93,576        8,586       110,904
9. ASalo pooduots:
-Ph.Ls, -et                             1.740        19.408        2,353       37,648         2,575       55.105        2,362        51,964
Total f-otec  bdle pood-cos          1,740        09,408        2,353       37,648         2,575       55,105         2,362       51,964
4  Otht, F-      od.,rts
i hster                                   568      140.027           866      277,120        1,003       333,999        1,226       476,464
Rh,ir2                                    398       44,353           564      103,212          802       190,074        1,289       328,695
Softal.p                                   -           -             41         9,225          240        6o,96o          380        92,720
TotSL cothe f-c, pr2dotcs              966       164,380        1,471      389,557         2,045      585,093         2,897      697,879
TotSL V-o-ec Prod-cts                      73,474    1,7939288        94.268    3,743,151       104,930    5,023,202      101,905    6,838.124
II. Salted coducto
1. GOtefish ptduc-s:
1r1-d                                   4,900      140,011         3,250      123,500         4,600      216,200         6,300      336,810
let                                    28.599       649 086       23,060      60990 0        25,000      925,000        26,500    1,404,500
.lcgs                                     328        6,263           639       24,570           305        7,930          183         6,356
Ros-                                    1,890       39,066         3,324      13,924          4,517      162,238        2,401        89,874
Tota i chitu tlh 0,cducis           35,616      834,426        30,393      965,994        34,422    1,311,366        35,364    1,837,540
2. 7,rc   ,001
S atsd 5e,in=                          17,550       338,050       15.500      511,567         6,271      269.653        5.167       255,0
TotVL hlor-.  -rcdccts              17,500       336,050       15,567      511,500         6,271      269,653         5,100      255,010
3. 0011, pccacco
I-pp2lsi cl                               600       18,94          1,674       53,850         1,254      109,130        1,181       101,836
Tota cthlr pocd-ocs                    600        18,994        1,004       53,850         1,254      109,130         1,181      101,836
TotS Salted Pcodocts                       53,763    1,191,30o        46,897     1,591,344       41,947    1.690,151       41,665    2,194.378
III. F       d Foo  Ic 1 t --o
1. 00ctefush pr2dcoic
24,907      229,475        33,259      631,474       39.621       811,826       19,257       523,569
TOtal ohitoOish p'-octo             24,077       229,475       33,259      631,474        39,621      811,826        19,057      529,569
2  7o.riv= troll Lod 0,I 67 cc Ocs         26,819       9340.5        28,479      209,017        35.024      523,466       47,544       653,173
otL1 h-erriog proOdlts              26,819        93,405       28,479      209,617        35,224      523,466        47,544      653,178
Teolt.oo L  ch FL' o sh ons F .ocks        50,696      322,860        61,738      841,291       74,845     1,335,292       66,801    6,176,767
1r. D-ie Fi.h -rdMt.
1. StcdfiOS                                 2,200       96,16         5,806      293,700         4,30      245,609          450        34.200
Total Dried Fish Food-cts                   2,200       96,116         5,800      296,700         4,800      249,6oo          450        34,4
1. Fr2  hf:tfshli
r2d Ii-s, cLl                          46575        34,058         4,964       54,768         5,403      106,979        4,216        96,968
PeFOs.I cc>                             ,90          6,695         122         u,692           672        11,694        1,107        17,0315
FisOca-                               62,566       157 975        207         3610212        31,693      525,799        04,06       466,916
04e01ci coal                           39809        25,786         3,403       44 239         3,315       54, 366        4,442       60 ,55
LotoiFo ,o_SL                            3896        2,609          506         7,056          709        11,82           920        14.720
liver -Sal                                445         3,214          933       1i,160           581        8,134          476         6,426
Tota 0.00 olitetfol                 32,870       230,339       39,364      489,117        42,543      719,094        41,L47      681,257
F- Fr2d borIng edd o-Pelin:
He-c14 oIl                             12,071       67,967           696        7,632           257        4,215          152         1,769
OaocOOn, oIl                           0222,488     1i,657         6,927       54 ,90         5,767       95,735        4,50        86 1.06
Nerrln=  alee8 11,791                               65,383           765        9,100           511        6,640           736        5,174
01pclioal                              11,972       79,227        26,396       31,473        90,177      691,905       27,723       465746
Tot l  cc hf rrins .dccl,           38,522       244,255       34,724      382,316        36,712      690,602        52,717      553,791
3. 2,ooohalec
5hai oil                                1,375        8,460         1,894       10,940         1,937       33,316         2,866       68,784
3pe= dae oil                              728        4,486           914       19,968          553         9,511          _
0660e moct                              1,537       11,324         1,995       25,935         l S9        30,2iO         1,940       27,190
-Ot60 f.ro  =hS e=                   3,640        03,898        4,673       55,843         4,299       73,037         4,806       95,9144
4. Other pcoducto
2hellflsh coh t                           -            -              17          170            58          754          140         1,832
Total other pffd-405                   -                           1 10         72            58          754           140        1,8I0
TntSL 67cc sod 001 Pfoducts                75,032      498,400        73,9i8      927,446       83,612    1,393,557        79,11C    1,332,312
'. 9i-d Fish FrP-ocs-
1. diteFlsh                                    _           _            748        32,792          606        38,566          912        65,751
2. Her-,o  11d 7  -elln                       865       52,192         1,451      102,186        1,492       107.355          876       163,615
3.  Shri                                      19         2,280           17         3,245           31         6,690           25         6,520
4.                                   h                                   35         s,38o           67        ic,48           70        12,743
Totel rned Flsh Prod-cts                      884       54,472         2,251      143,783         2,196      164,949        1,8B3       248,629
030  006chr fIoh P oduots
WhSae  -05t e-t-ct                        120        3,944           100        7,000            55        5,950           120       18,840
_totel 003r FIst Podocts                      120        3,944           100        7,000           65         5,900          120        16,240
_'.I. 00c-nti FPl6h O--o,loi
1. Fr-h                                    11,500      111,704        14,965      217,036        14,970      247, 05       15,220       410,940
2. Soltod                                   1,000       32,000         1,210       36,300         1,222       48,680         1,232       65,912
Total Lo6e6tio ~otsumptioc                 12,900      143,734        16,178      253,336        16,1W       295,685       i6,i52       476,052
,rand T.tcc  All Fi Fro0dcts                      68,874    4,104,276       300,140    7,746,051      328,607   10,056,586       3.5386   12,320.6






ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Quantities Processed in Thorlakshofn and Grindavik and Quantities
Trucked Away to Other Plants 1971-73
(Tons)
Thorlakshofn                                                       Grindavik
Nominal Landings     Processed        Trucked Away               Nominal Landings        Processed      Trucked Away
1971 (January - May)                22,659               12,198           10,641                       47,963              22,164            25,799
1972
January                          238                  263               25                        1, 446              1,120               326
February.                      2,120               1,401               719                        3,599               2,743               856
March                          4,948               2,957             1,991                        7,915               5,832             2,083
April                          5,232               2,627             2,605                      12,800                6,609             6,191
May-Tune                       2,551               1,061             1,491                        5,305               2,301             3,004
July-August                    1,553                  807              7441                       3,254                 849             2,405
September                        408                  384               24                          654                 399               255
October                          120                  134               14                          913                 485               428
November                         340                 247                23                        1,366                 787               579
December                         434                  354               90                        1,021                 652               369
Total                      17,944              10,234             7,698                       38,273              21,777            16,496
1973
January                          533                  452               81                          855                 665               190
February                       1,878                  768            1,I10                        1,484               1,018               466
March                          6,927                4,141            2,786                        8,369               5,246             3,123
April                         16,585                4,103           12,482                       21,708               9,812            11,896
May                            2,746                  491            2,255                        5,118               2,030             3,088
Total                     28,669                9,955           18,73.4                      37,534              18,771            18,763
In general conversion factor is used to estimate life weight, so there are possible
discrepancies depending.on actual composition of the catch.
Source:  Fiskifelag Islands (Fisheries Association of Iceland)



ICELAND 
FISHINC HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Capacity of Freezing Plants in the South and SouthwtRst Area 1971
(tons of fillets per 10 hours)
Number of                                        Average Output Mix Li                            Maximuma Output MixL2            _       Raw MaterialL3
Frsezin-                                                     Other      Weighed                                Other      Weighed        Average     Maximum
Plants                                 Cod      Haddock     Species      _erge Cod                Haddock     8eies    Average             M     ix  Mix
1         Stokkseyri                10.0        6.3        7.7          8.7          12.3         6.7        10.4         11.0          32.4        40.7
1        Eyrarbakki                  7.8        4.9        6.7          7.1          10.6         5.7         9.0          9.5          26.2        35.1
1        Thorlakshofn               39.6        2.2       18.6         35.7          48.o         2.4        35.4         44.7         132.5       165.4
3        Grindavik                  23.5       15.1       19.2         22.7          30.5        16.4        25.8         29.4          84.0       108.8
2         Sandgerdi                 27.0       10.0       20.1         25.5          36.4        10.5        32.3         34,8          94.5       128.9
3        Gardur                     13.9        9.0       11.1         13.4          17.8         9.7        15.1         17.2          49.6        64.o
6        KefThv./R\jardv.           65.4       41.4       53.7         63,1          84.2        50.1        74.6         81.7         233.7       302.5
2        Vogar                       8.2        5.2        6.6          7.9          10.6         5.7         9.0         10.2          29.3        37.8
5        Hafnarfj.                  64.6       23.5       46.5         59.5          87.4        27.0        72.6         82.0         220.5       303.6
3        Kopavogmur                  9.1        5.8        7.7          8.7          12.3         6.7        10.4         11.7          32.2        43.3
6         Reykjivik                150.2       71.7      104.7        138.7         194.3        76.7       156.5        182.3         513.5       674.8
4        Vestmannaeyjar            138.3       80.8      108.5        120.6         186.1        92.8       157.9        165.6         446.5       613.2
1        Hornafjordur /5            14.7       12.5       13.5         13,8          17.8        15.3        17.8         17.4          51.1        64.4
L    By average output is meant the capacity assuming some average product being produced.
-2   By maximum otpLt is meant the capacity when the product best fitted for the production line is being produced.                                           1-3
a    These figures give the raw material equivalent of the columns marked,                                                                                     DF
Lk   The weights for these averages are based on actual composition of the raw material in 1971.
/5   These figures denote tbe capacity as it is now.
A new plant is under construction and it will at least double the present figures.
0                                                                   *                                                                    0



ANNEX 1
Table 17
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITA9'2ION PROJECT
Capacity of Fishmeal Plants
Processing Capacitiy       Storage Capacity
(muetric tons/24 hours)       (metric tons)
Vestmanxaeyjar A                      1,100                   10,000
Thorlakshofn                            250                    3,400
Grindavik                               300                    3,000
Total South Coast                 1,550                   16,400
Faxa Bay Area                         2,580                   32,500
Breidafjordur Area                      170                    1,000
*        Western Fjords                           440                    7,700
North Coast                           4,100                   39,750
East Coast                            3,000                   39,600
Grand Total                      11,840                  136,950
Z/   Before volcanic eruption
Source:  Fiskifelag Islands (Fisheries Association of Iceland)



ANNEX 1
Table 18
ICELAND
FISXING HARBORS REHABILITATI0N PROJECT                              0
Average Ex-vessel Fish Prices, 1968-1972
(IKr per kg) A
Jan./Nov.
1968        1969         1970        1971            1972
Cod                    4.67         6.26        7.28         9.69          12.23
Haddock                6.64         9.36       10.88        13.80          15.35
Colefish               4.44         6.57        6.95         8.21           9.93
Whiting                 4.04        7.31         9.43        7.43           10.00
Norway Pout              -          1.78        1.74         1.78            1.38
Ling                   4.23         5.54        6.46         8.42           9.82
Blue Ling              8.33        13.56       15.52         9.86           13.86
Tusk                   4.23         5.46        6.12         8.42           9.43
Catfish                3.92         5.97        6.89         9.30          11.89
Spotted Sea Cat        o.65         1.14        1.50         2.42           2.25
Monk                    4.19        6.20         7.31        8.93           10.08
Redfish                5.27         7.77       10.12        10.15          11.47
Halibut               17.53        27.17       28.65        32.20          32.71
Greenland Halibut      9.00         8.64       10.51        13.16          14.23
Plaice                  8.13       14.49       16.22        15.90          13.43
Lemonsole              5.89        18.16       23.11        21.00          17.74
Witch                  3.51         5.07        5.52         6.63            7.07
Mergin                 5.46         4.62         7.97        8.52            8.97
Dab                    3.00         4.72        8.55         9.58          10.21
Skate                  2.82         4.32        4.84         5.60           6.13
Dogfish                3.13         5.79        5.42         5.63           5.15
Shark                  1.57         4.68        4.42        12.39           7.85
Porbeagle             12.58        42.00       14.00          -            24.00
Herring                 2.39        7.82       13.94        13.52          14.63
Capelin                0.43         0.82        1.20         1.55           1.38
Lobster               16.69        34.25       40.37        45.29          66.45
Prawn                  9.35        15.42       15.29        19.80          21.58
Scallops                -           7.62        8.47         9.21          10.96
Lumpfish               6.30        11.00       17.41        17.25             -
Mackerel               3.48         6.98        5.82        13.71          14.53
Silver Smelts          1.00          -           -            -             4.00
L Live-weight basis
Source: Fiskifelag Islands (Fisheries Association of Iceland)
.



ICELANL
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Price Indices of Marine Products By Mbdes of Processing and Main Species of Catch 1963-71
1963 =100-
1963         1964         1965          196-         19Q7          1968         1969          1970        1971
1.  Fresh and iced fish                              100.0        106.8         108.1        114.3          94.5         84.7         111.1        150.0         152.4
*2.  Frozen products                                  100.0        122.4         125.8        139.4         127.5        115.8         121.8        142.8         190.9
a.  Whitefish                                    100.0        125.4         124.2        137.2         125.7        112.6         119.1        139.4         192.6
b.  Herring                                      100.0        105.8         117.6        115.4         105.9         96.4          67.1        134.8         142.7
c.  Lobster                                      100.0        119.6         173.9        220.9         190.8        210.7         200.4        219.1         253.3
d.  Shrimp                                       100.0        100.0         126.4        136.6         112.0         96.7         11i.6        140.9         149.9
e.  Shellfish                                                                                                                     1OO.0         90.3         106.0
3.  Salted products                                  100.0        116.2         131.4        147.2         139.7        130.1         119.7        140.5         178.4
a.  Salted whitefish                             100.0        118.6         127.2        145.5         142.4        129.2         113.7        133.6         176.2
b.  Salted cod roe                               100.0         98.6         113.5        120.7         109.9        137.8         158.6        157.3         164.2
c.  Salted lumpfish roe                          100.0        153.8         321.2        280.7          95.3        151.8         171.3        271.1         262.
4.  Stockfish                                        100.0        103.0         108.7        125.6         135.5        125.6          83.4         99.7         146.2
5.  Smoked fish                                      100.0        100.0         110.5        122.2         133.3         92.9         163.8        150.7         179.1
6.  Codliver oil and meal                            100.0        123.0         130.7        135.9         125.6        122.5          94.5        130.6         147.8
7.  Canned products                                  100.0        120.1         122.2        113.6         136.6         98.0         112.0        140.6         116.5
8.  Fish meal and oil                                100.0        123.1         139.8        129.9         108.5         95.4         3.26.2       172.2         170.7
a.  Whitefish meal                               100.0        119.5         134.8        137.1         112.3        102.2         127.7        163.1         157.7
b.  Herring and capelin meal                     100.0        107.6         133.3        130.7         112.4        100.8         131.5        177.3         184.3
c.  Fish body oil                                100.0        145.8         150.9        127.6         102.5         72.0         101.8        211.2         195.9
9.  Salted herring                                   100.0         106.9        118.1        130.7         125.7        123.9         156.9         206.5        251,5
10.  Wiale products                                   100.0        114.6         126.7         137.0        104.9          97.6        111.3         143.6        169.5
TOTAL                                            100.0        117.3         128.6        133.5         121.8        113.2.        119.2        145.0         182.3
Less   Intrasector
transactions                              100.0        101.9        105.2         129.5         130          119.1        143.7          8            276.7
TOTAL: (Consolidated sector)                     100.0        117.3         128.7        133.5         121.         113.0        119.2         144.9        181.9
/   The price indcoes show the development of export prices (fob) in terms of foreign currency.
Source:  Economic Development Institute.



ICE1AND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregated Operating Accounts for Fishing Boats A
(Trawlers excluded) 1969-7 and Estimates for 1972-73
IIr Mi11ion)
1969        1970        1971        1972              ____      1973       ____1973-1975
1  Befi;e1ev   tion  After Pevaluation   ES  u e   CaDelO n
Early Mar"h          After July        Capelin     Only
A.  TOTAL INtCOKF                                                       3,233,1     4,015,1      4,766J9     5,453.7             7,214.4            7.162.8         6.020.0   1. i42.8
Sold catcb                                                        2,897.5     3,694.2     4,336,9    4,874.8               6,536.3            6,484.o         4,488.5   1,17.6
Granits                                                             283.1       263.0        299.4       336.6               378.0              378.0
Other income                                                         52.5        57.9       130.6        242.3               300.1              300.8
B. TOTAI COSOS                                                          3,381.3     3,979.7     4,892.8      5,867.9             7,220.7            7,203-1         6,355.3       834.9
Shares to crew (include vacation and wage tax)                    1,018.1     1,348.4     1,652.3    2,040.2               2,668.1            2,652.4         2,139.3       513.1
Other wages and related expenses                                    162.9       186.5        278.3       423.7               528.6              539.4           525.2        14.2
Fishing gear                                                        443.1       485.5        556.2       653.6               778.9              803.3           717.7        85.6
Oil                                                                 259.0       291.9        409.6       389.3               464.1              464.1           413.8        37. 4
Other variable costs                                                588.0       644.4       761.7        848.4             1,032.2            1,000.0           947.0        53.4
Total variable costs                                              2.471.1    2.956.7      3,658.1     4,355.2              5,472.9            5.459.6         4,743.0       703.
Contribution to fixed costs                                         762.o     1,058.4     1,108.8      1,098.5             1,741.5            1,703.2         1,277.0       439.1
Maintenance and repair                                              303-.       407.o        490.9       638.0               718.4              735.4           693.7        41.7
Revalued depreciation                                               368.9       365.8        490.1       583.6               664.1              652.3           600.3        52.0
Interest                                                            237.5       250.2       253.7        301.1               365.3              355.8           318.3        37.5
C. NET PROFIT BEFORE DIRECT TAXE.S                                       -148.2       +35.4      -125.9      -414.2                 -6.3              -40.3          -335.3    +307.9
Gross profit before direct taxes
and revalued depreciatior                                        +220.7      +401.2       +364.2      4169.4              +657.8             +612.o          +265.0      +35929
'.as 'A of A                                                         -4.6%       +0.9%       -2.6%       -7.6%               -0.1%               -o.6%           -5.6%/    +26.91o
/     IncludiDg all boats of 20-500 7RT.
*                                                                               0                                          



ICELAND
FISHING RARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregated Operating Accounts Toar Freezirg Plants
1969-71 and Estimates for 1972-73
(lEr millIton)
1.962      1970          1971           1972                                1973
Before Revaluation         After Revaluation
Early March                Early July
A.  TOTAL INCOME                                                           3,615.1       4,256.5        5,795.8        7,136.5              9,120.7                     8,775.8
Exports income                                                      3,332.1        3,817.6        5,226.7       6,469.8               8,168.5                    7,830.0
Domestic sales and other income                                       283.8          438.9          569.1          666.7                952.2                       945.8
B.  TO~TAL COSTS                                                          3,310.8        3,998.1        5,470.5        6,849.6              8,237.2                     8 303.5
Wages and related pay                                                 783.7          993.0        1,328.4        1,712.6              2,043.1                    2,118.7
Raw material                                                        1,815.8        2,128.5        3,073.9        3,823.9              4,646.o                    4,646.o
Other variablc costs                                                  399.1          488.o          607.6          761.7                898.1                       884.5
Total variable costs                                                2,998.6        3,6D9.5        5,009.9        6,298.2              7,589.2                    7,649.2
Contribution to fixed costs                                           617.3          647.o          785.9         838.3               1,533.5                    1,126.6
Maintenance and repairs                                                82.7          139.3          187.5          230.6                265.2                       272 1
Revalued devreciation                                                 104.0          118.0          139.0          164.0                193.5                       196.3
Interest                                                              125.5          131.3          134.1          156.8                191.3                       185.9
C. NE' PROFIT BEFORE DIRErT TAXES                                          +305.1         +258.4         +325.3        +286.9                 833.5                     +472.3
Ciross vrofit before direct taxes and
revalued depreciation                                             +409.1         +376.4         +464.3        +450.9              +1,077.0                      +668.6
C. as t of A                                                                  +8.4%          +6.1%          +5.6%          +4.0                 +9.7                        +5.4
'ontribution to pri-e equalization fund                                -            +299.0         +532.3          +31.0               +285.0                          +55
Contribution from, price equalization fund                                            -              -             -76.0                 _                           _
Souree:   Yrrmkvaemdastofnan Rikisins (Economi' Development Institute)
2    Excluding  shrimp



ANNEX  1
Table 22
I CELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILI-ATION PROJEC7
Subsidies and Other Support for the Fishing and
Fish Processing Industry, 1970-73
(IKr million)
Actual                 Budget
1970     1971          1972     1973
1.  Fishing                                 58.8      54.0          52.0     83.9
Catch equalization fund                 48.8     36.o          32.0      63.9
a.  Regular grant                   (31.3)   (33.5)        (29.5)   (36.4)
b.  Trawler subsidies               ( 2.5)   ( 2.5)        ( 2.5)   (27.5)
c.  Fisherrnen's food subsidy       (15.0)   (  - )        (  - )   (  -
Line fish subsidy                       10.0     18.0          20.0      20.0
2.  State Herring Factories Subsidies         -         -             -      26-.0
3.  Service Institutions                   149.5    186.4         200.4    258.1
Fish search                             51.8     85.2          94.5    130.1
Other services                          47.6     59.4          67.7      91.5
S°ecial building finds                  50.1     41.8          38.2      36.5
4.  Investment Funds                          -       35.0         94.1      82.6
Fisheries Loan Fund                       -      35.0          35.0      35.0
Loans for the building
of trawlers                                    -           59.1      47.6
70TAL (l - 4)                     208.3    275.4          346.5    450.6
0



kNNEX 1
Tal -- t
ICELAND
X  FISHING 0 UORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for
The Fisheries Loan Fund 1971 and 1972
(I.,r Million)
A.   Balance Sheet at December 31, 1971 and 1972
A.>ts:                                   197i      1972       Liabilities:                             1971         1972
Adv:ances secured by mortgage on:
a)  Fi-shing vessels                                          Domestic banks and Development
2,209.2    3,046.6      Fand PL-480                              500.2       981.9
o-) Quick freezing plants                353.2      535.9    Foreign liabilities A.                     549.0    1,991.2
r)  Fish meal plants                      95.4        78.2    Contribution accounts                      175.L      175.4
Fishing Vessel's Inaugural Fund            72.0         -
d) Other fish processing plants           79.2       158.1    Borrowers' deposits                        371.5       544.4
Devaluation gains                          20.8         -
e)  Shipyards and slipways                92.9       106.9    Creditors                                   21.4        21.8
,j) Other real estate and buildings       23.6        28.0    Central Bank Overdraft                     109.7        59.0
Preliminary financing to domestic
shipbuilding                         370.8      379.5    Equity Capital                           1,569.6    1,745.9
Socurities                                26.1        29.l4
Suindry debtors                           20.8        88.1
Bank deposits A                          118.4    1,068.9
W                                           3,389.6    5,519.6                                              3,389.6    5,519.6
B.   Profit and Loss Account for 1971 and 1972
E9xpenditure:                                                 Income:
Cost of operations                        10.1        16.2    Carried forward from last year               4.4        3.6
T ;tev est and fees paid on borrowed
funds                                 117.9      154.8    Export charge on fish produce                48.6       49.0
Loan wite-offs                            1u.7        -
Transferred to Inaugural Fand            145.0      150.0    Treasury counterpart-contribution           35.0        35.0
Transferred to Write-off Reserve Fund   10.0          15.0    Interest earned                            213.6       260.2
Transferred to Reserve Fund                4.3         7.9
Carried forward to next year               3.6         3.9
301.6      3L7.8                                               301.6       317.8
/1   Of which a Japanese dollar loan :or payment of' trawlers
TI{r p47.2 million 'anuseo2.
Of which Japanese dollar loanI I1K  'T7  million.
O  Source: Annual Report of the Fisheries Bank of Iceland (Utvegsbanki)






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ICELAND
FISIiING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Marine Resources
1.        Iceland is situated in a mixing area of cold an(I warm water currents,
whlicii are vital Lo all marine life in thie seas around the island. The main
currents are the Atlantic current (Gulfstream), withi llgh salinity and tem-
peratures between 40 and 12°C; the East Iceland current which is of arctic
origin with medium salinitv aad temperatures below 3°C; and a coastal current
which is a mixture of offshore waters and fresh water from many rivers.
2.        The production of phytoplankton is highest in the mixing areas where
eddies and vertical currents are formed. In this way nutrients are brought up
from the bottom to the surface layers and used by the phytoplankton, the first
link in the complicated ocean foodchain. The zooplankton, which feeds on
phytoplankton, varies greatly according to season and area, and is important
as the source of food for many marine animals both large and small.
3.        An abundance of bottom animals is found on the continental shelf
and provides food for many important species of fish. Some, like mussels,
shrimp and Norway lobster are also caught for commercial purposes.
4.        Only some of the species of fish found in Icelandic waters propagate
there. Because of the great variations in temperature along the coast the
range of species is high, from boreal or warm water species off the south and
west coasts to arctic species on the slopes off the north and east coasts.
There are also some species of marine mammals, including the common seal and
the grey seal, finwhale, seiwhale and spermwhale.
5.        During late winter and early spring the main fish stocks around
Iceland concentrate for spawning in the warm water area off the south and
west coasts, making it one of the richest fishing grounds in the North
Atlantic. At least 75% of the total Icelandic demersal landings during the
period January-Miay are caught there. Up to 90% of that catch is based on
three species of the cod family - cod, haddock and saithe - but cod is the
most important one. The spawning area extends from Breidafjordur on the
west coast towards Hornafjordur on the south coast. The main spawninig takes
place at the Selvogsbanki area but some spawming is also at Eldeyjarbanki,
off Snaefellsnes and east of Vestmannaeyjar (Meoallardsbugur).
Demersal Fish Stocks
6.        Cod (Gadus morrhua) has been the most important species of fish in
the Icelandic economy since the country was settled in the ninth century.
Detailed statistics on landings are available since 1906. The fluctuations
in cod landings are less pronounced than for many other commercial species.
The high catches in some years (over 500,000 tons in 1933 and 1.954) are



ANNEX 2
Page 2
caused by the immigration of strong yearclasses of mature cod from Greenland
waters combined with good indigenous yearclasses, so the actual potential of
the Icelandic cod stock is lower than these maxima indicate.
7.        Since the diversion of many Icelandic fishing vessels from herring
fishing to demersal fishing, Icelanders take about 60% of the cod caught
annually in Icelandic waters; the rest is taken by foreign vessels, mostly
trawlers. The fishing effort on the cod nursery grounds has increased since
World lWar II. In the opinion of Iceland's Marine Research Institute, the
resource requires effective management measures. A considerable part of
the Icelandic cod catch is of mature fish caught on the south coast during
the winter.
u.        Annual landings of haddock (tIelanogrammus aeglefinus) fluctuate
greatly, due to variations in fishing effort and recruitment. Haddock is
a fully exploited species.
9.        There are also great fluctuations in coalfish or saithe (Pollachius
virens) landings, believed due to variations in recruitment. Saithe spawn
on the south coast, and the nursery area is along the north coast.  Because
saithe migrate frorm Norway and the Faroes to Icelandic waters and back, it
is difficult to calculate the exact stock size in Iceland and the trends in
this fishery. The 1971 landings of nearly 134,000 tons were the highest ever
in Icelandic waters.
10.       An extensive fishery for redfish (Sebastes spp.) in Icelandic waters
started in the 1930's and after World War II annual catches increased to 167,000
tons in 1951. These high catches were based on an accumulated stock of many
yearclasses. In the 1970's landings have been 80-100,000 tons annually. In-
vestigations have shown great numbers of redfish larvae off the continental
shelves in the area between Iceland and Greenland (Irminger Sea). This sug-
gests that there may be a separate oceanic stock not yet exploited.
11.       The Icelandic stock of plaice (Pleuronectes platessa) has been sub-
stantially depleted by the fishery and regulatory measures have been. intro-
duced. In recent years total landings have averaged 11,000 tons yearly.
This stock is fully exploited.
12.       The biggest annual catch - some 7,000 tons - of halibut (Hippoglossus
hippoglossides) was obtained in 1960 but landings have since declined to some
3,000 tons 4n 1970. This stock is considered fully exploited.
13.       The catfish (Anarrhlchas lupus) is of some importance.  Catches have
fluctuated considerablyi reaching a peak in 1963 when 29,000 tons were landed,
but since then they have come down to 10,000 tons.
14.       A fishery for Greenland halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossides) started
a few years agu. The total annual catch has been 10-20 tons only. The stock
size and potential yield are not yet known.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
15.       Lumpsucker(Cyclopterus lumpus) is an important fish because of
the high value of the roe catch, which is about 1,000 tons annually.
16.       The grenadier is fairly abundant in the deep waters along the con-
tinental slope off the southwest coast. Iceland has not yet exploited this
species, but USSR fisheries have yielded high catches in recent years. This
fishery is promising for the bigger trawlers. Two species of grenadiers
(Coryphaenoides ruEestris and Macrourus berglax) are found in deep waters'
around Iceland. There is a possibility for utilization of these together
with the silver smelt (Argentina silus).
17.       Other demersal species of importance are hing (Molva molva), blue
lng (Molva byrkelange), lemon sole (Microstomus kitt), monk (lophius
piscatorius) and skate (Raja batis).
Pelagic Fish Stocks
18.       Traditionally the Icelandic herring (Clupea harengus) fishery was
based on the Atlanto-Scandian herring which includes three herring stocks.
This fishery was mainly exploited by Icelandic, Norwegian and Soviet fishing
vessels. Due to both unfavorable natural circumstances and overexploitation,
these stocks have oecome unproductive during the last two to three years.
Since 1969, therefore, Icelandic herring fishing has to a large extent been
based on North Sea herring.
19.       The Icelandic herring fishery has undergone large fluctuations
during the last two decades. After many years of low yield during the
1950's, the landings increased sharply in the early 1960's, reaching a peak
of 770,000 tons in 1966. During this period of high yields, herring and
herring products contributed some 50% of Iceland's total export.  Since
1967 there has been a sharp decrease in landings to around 40-50,000 tons.
There is now an international agreement on herring conservation.
20.       The Icelandic stock of capelin (Mallotus villosus) has so far been
exploited only by Icelandic vessels. The fishery in its present form is very
young and started as late as 1965. Since then the annual landings have in-
creased from 50,000 tons to 437,000 tons in 1973. The fishery has so far
been based on spawning migrations of the mature fish which usually arrive
off the southeast coast in February. This fishery takes place during a rel-
atively short time in late winter (late January-mid April) with a peak period
of about six to eight weeks and center of activity on either side of the
*          Vestmannaeyjar Islands.  Strict unilateral conservation measures are enforced
to protect the immature capelin.
21.       Blue luhitina (Gadus poutassou) has not yet been exploited.  Both
Icelandic and intei:..-.ional investigations ihave shown that this is a large
fish stock. Large-scale exploitation of the spawning grounds off the west
European continental shelf will probably start in 1973. This oceanic fish
migrates to Icelandic waters during the summer, but often the concentrations



ANNEX 2
Page 4
are too scattered for fishing with presently known methods. This is a typ-
ically intercontinental stock that will need international conservation
measures.
Marine Invertebrates
22.       The Norway lobster (Nephrops norvegicus) is found in the warm waters
off the southwest, south and southeast coasts, where it is caught in consider-
able quantities during the summer. Since the late 1950's, over 100 boats have
been licensed in this fishery, which is strictly regulated. Iceland's Norway
lobster stocks are now fully exploited with an annual yield of 3-4,000 tons.
23.       The deep-sea prawn (Pandalus borealis) has a very wide distribution
around Iceland and is ccmmonly found over muddy ground at depths ranging from
40 to over 400 meters. A license is needed for this fishery, which was on a
rather small scale until the latter part of the 1960's. Some of the local
inshore stocks are now fully utilized, but a considerable fishery potential
is known to exist in deeper waters so far virtually unexploited.
24.       The Iceland scallop (Chlamys islandica) occurs in great quantities
off the west and northwest coasts. A license is needed, and fishing is carried
out year-round. This fishery dates back only to 1969. It has expanded rapidly,
but as potential fishing grounds are limited, it is not likely to continue to
do so.
25.       The ocean quahog (Artica islandica) has a very wide distribution
around Iceland and could sustain a considerable fishery. Fishing trials and
experiemntal surveys are due to start in 1973.
26.       Other molluscan species with a possible fishery potential include
the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and the squid (Todorodeus sagittatus).
.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ICEIAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ahe Icelandic Harbors Authority
Organizat ion
1.        The Director of Lighthouses and Harbors, within the Hinistry of
Communications, is responsible for the work of two authorities - the Lighthouses
Authority of Iceland, entrusted with the planning, construction and maintenance
of coastal navigation aids; and the Icelandic Harbors Authority (.ae Diagram 1),
responsible for the planning, design, construction and improvement of harbor
facilities. In both authorities, most works are implemented by force account;
consulting firms or contractors are rarely employed.
2.        The work of the Harbors Authority covers planning, repairs, improve-
ments or new works at a small number of state-owned ports, such as Keflavik,
Rif and Thorlakshofn and at a larger number of municipally-owned ports and
landing places. The autonomous Port Authority of Reykjavik is a special case
which is responsible for its own planning, design and construction activities,
though for design and construction consulting engineers and contractors are
normally employed. Development works at the state-owned ports are paid 100%
by Government; those at municipally-owned ports (except Reykjavik which, be-
cause of its sizeable commercial traffic, largely pays its own way) are paid
75% by Government, although Government sometimes lends to municipalities the
remaining 25%. To qualify for the Government contribution, work at municipally-
owned ports must be approved by the Ministry of Comunications, and is usually
implemented by the hlarbors Authority.
3.        The annual budgetary allocation of the Harbors Authority is about
IKr 300 million (about US$3.3 million). This sum includeg the budget for the
annual program of works for Iceland's ports (exclusive of Reykjavik), as well
as staff salaries and expenses and miscellaneous running costs for the head
office. Since there are about 73 sites classified as ports, the money avail-
able in normal circumstances is spread thinly over a large number of proposals
determined by various priorities including social factors.  In the current
year, with the Vestmannaeyjar emergency, a concentration of efforts has been
made at Grindavik.
4.        The Harbors Authority owns a number of plant and equipment items
that are hired either to their own projects or to private contractors. Con-
tractors hire to the Government certain other plant and equipment items at
annually agreed rates. Each plant rate generally includes the provision of
an operator, driver, or crew% and covers the estimated full cost including
maintenance, depreciation and interest. The Authority's plant and equipment
holdings and rates are given in the Plant Manual dated May 1973. The list
includes tractors, dozers, loaders, scrapers, compressors, cranes, back hoes



ANNEX 3
Page 2
and pile hammers.  A small bucket dredger constructed in the 1940's and a
modern 14 inch diameter suction dredger are also available, complete with
crews.
Project Works
5.        Diagram 1 illustrates the limited engineering staff available to
the lIarbors Authority. This staff, comprising some 12 engineers, has had
many years' experience in the planning, design and construction of small-scale
marine works for the commercial ports, fishery harbors and landing places
in Iceland. The chief engineer has also had experience in project preparation
in foreign countries. However, the Authority does not have experience in carry-
ing out a project of the size proposed. This factor, together with the staff-
ing limitations, makes it essential that the Harbors Authority staff be sup-
plemented by a firm of consulting engineers for the major works at Thorlakshofn
and that construction there be carried out by contractor. For the works at
Grindavik and Hornafjordur the Authority will be able to implement the work
by force account.



ORGANIZATION OF THE ICELANDIC HARBOURS AUTHORITY
WITHIN
THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION
MINISTER OF
COMMUNICATION
SECRETARY GENERAL
DIRECTORATE OF   1                                                                                                        O      I
LiGHTHOUSES AND                                                                                                           OTHER DIRECTOR-
HARBOURS                                                                                                                  ATliS ROADS ETC'
THE LIGHTHOUSES                            THE ICELANDIC
AUTHORITY OF                               HAR8OURS
ICELAND                                    AUTHORITY
HEAD OFFICE
.    (MANAGER)
SUECH  EA                   ENGINEF               SUPIEEINEDT
DPfTEQUPENNTTRSPANN   EATET    EERHDPR                                                                           ADDRC  OTO
EQUIMEN CONTRO
CA0RRELAIOS                             WORSHOEQIPEN  DUTIG  FIESDPRMNCNINF               EATEpE                                  ER
DIVATSECSOAER               YARDPINSTURMEN SHORE
SUPRINERNTENENT       SUPERINTENENT      SU    UPINERNDENTDENTFSPCFI 
EQUIPMENT  COST & PERSONNEL    REPAIRS DIVING     |.                   | | SPECIFIC SCHEMESCNSTRUCTlON
DIVERS  WOiRSHi DUTIES      DEPATMENT ENGINEE   | DEPARTMEN ENGINE ER |  DEPARTMENT EGI NEERN|E-               S
World Bai-n
World Ben k-7877






ANNEX 4
Page 1
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Size, Location and Economic Analysis
A. Project Size and Location
Background
1.        Before the volcanic eruption of January 23, 1973, Vestmannaeyjar
received some 40,000 tons of demersal fish annually which were caught by
70-80 boats registered there. In addition, 80,000 tons of capelin were
landed there in 1972 for conversion to fishmeal. After the eruption the
Vestmannaeyjar fleet took part in this year's cod fishery with near-normal
intensity but problems were encountered by those compelled to operate on
fishing grounds and in harbors where they had no previous experience and
which were badly congested and inadequate. The tendency, therefore, was to
divert as much as possible to their traditional grounds. In April most of
the boats delivered their catches in Thorlakshofn, using the Vestmannaeyjar
port for rest and shelter.
2.        The only people currently living there are some 200 to 300 workers
of various professions belonging to the rescue team. But the prospects of
moving back are being considered. Experts consider a new eruption unlikely,
or at least no more likely than at any other point in the volcanic area, at
sea or on the mainland. Barring further eruption at Vestmannaeyjar over the
next couple of years, it is believed that a few people will move back for the
1974 winter and spring fishing season. Slowly more people will move in, and
although some may have second thoughts and return to the mainland, the number
who finally settle there after some two to five years will probably fluctuate
around one-half to two-thirds of the population which was evacuated. A cor-
responding part of the Vestmannaeyjar fishing fleet will be operated from its
home port while one-third to one half of it will be seeking harbor facilities
elsewhere.
3.        The project aims to provide emergency harborage for the entire
Vestmannaeyjar fleet during the remainder of the emergency and reasonably
safe, efficient and accessible fishing harborage on the south coast mainland
for the one-third to one-half of the Vestmannaeyjar fleet expected to remain
permanently on the mainland. Because the proposed investment would provide
benefits over many years and would be large relative to Icelandts annual
harbor investment pisgram, the project must take into account underlying
trends towards structural changes in the fisheries. In particular, since
the average size of vessel in use off the south coast is increasing, at
least some of the improved harbors should be able to accommodate ves8els of
up to 500 GRT, a size now in use and likely to become common within 10-15 years.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The economic analysis of the project concentrates on the hectic
winter cod fishing season from January through April, occurring off
the south coast of Iceland between Hornafjordur in the southeast and
Breidafjordur in the southwest. In recent years, however, south coast
fisheries in the summer season have become more important than they used
to be at the time of extensive herring fisheries off the east and north
coasts. A considerable number of boats are now engaged in the summer
trawl fishery for lobster and various other bottom feeding species. This
fishery is not as intense as the winter fishery. The ports are less
crowded since fishing is not so concentrated off the south coast, vessels
venture farther away and for longer periods of time, and climatic condi-
tions are more favorable.
5.        During the winter cod fishing season, weather conditions vary,
and within the general area of the south coast the geographical center of
the fishery may change from year to year. However, with their location the
Grindavik and Thorlakshofn harbors each year receive considerable direct
landings in the cod fishing season, not only from boats registered in these
harbors but also from boats belonging to other harbors which, as a matter
of convenience, are landing their catches as near as possible to the fishing
grounds. Thus, because of the intensity of the fishery, all boats, regard-
less of size, try to land their catches in one of the south coast harbors.
Processing facilities in these harbors are limited but boats which are not
registered there and have no contract with the local processing plants have
their catches trucked away to affiliated processing plants in the Faxa Bay
area (Reykjavik and vicinity).
6.        Among the various fishing methods used in the cod fishery, the
most common is gill netting. The average boat of 70 to 80 GRT usually
carries 90 to 110 nets and a crew of 14 to 16. Because the fishing grounds
are usually relatively near (some four hours running from the harbor) and
the fishing season is mainly in the winter months, no ice is carried and
the fish are killed when taken on board but not gutted. Gutting the fish
and packing them in ice, thereby permitting trips of more than one day,
would however reduce the time available for net handling and the effective
catch per day. As a result, landings are made once a day regardless of the
size of the catch. In the winter cod fishery, where a substantial catch is
obtained in one day's fishing, it is essential not to spend too much time
running to and from the harbor. Unloading in the Faxa Bay area is therefore
not practical as it takes about seven additional hours sailing each way from
the fishing grounds and in the rough sea which often prevails many of the
small and mediua-sized (up to 350 GRT) boats would, moreover, be unable to
negotiate the difficult waters around the Reykjanes peninsula. Accordingly,
the boats deliver their catches during a fairly restricted period (mainly
during about four hours) at the end of each day.  Precise fishing locations
and resulting travel times from port vary with the concentration of fish.
But a typical day during the fishing season would consist roughly of: travel
to and from the fishing grounds, nine hours; actual fishing, twelve hours;
time in port (normal delays, minor re?airs, unloading and taking on of supplies), |
three hours. Extra delays in port due to congestion eat directly into a ves- W
sel's fishing time.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Port Congestion
7.        At present, because of inadequate facilities, the same piers are
often used both for unloading and for servicing. During the most congested
period of the day (4 to 8 p.m.), boats berth four or five deep at the unload-
ing pier which makes it very time-consuming for a vessel trying to unload
since all the other vessels must be moved aside. This process of untying the
other vessels and moving next to the quay to land the catch takes about 30
minutes per boat.
8.        The number of fishing vessels and the quantity of fish that a par-
ticular harbor can realistically handle on a given day (with delays limited
to acceptable levels) vary according to catches, sizes of vessels landing on
the particular day and their pattern of arrival. An attempt was i..ade to de-
fine the average daily number of vessels that Grindavik and Thorlakshofn
could handle at present. From this the capacity required under the project
was calculated.  The measure adopted was that each 15 m of unloading pier at
present provides unloading for one vessel per day. This was calculated on
the basis that each vessel requires 30 m of quay for unloading (corresponding
to the overall length of the average boat), which at present takes about 1-1/2
hours. However, due to such factors as delays in arrival of vessels and traf-
fic problems the unloading pier is occupied for two hours per vessel.
9.        Under the project, separate quays would be established for non-
unloading purposes (servicing, taking on of supplies, etc.), thereby speeding
unloading traffic and reducing turn-around time. Thus, with the project,
three vessels could be unloaded during the peak unloading period in each 30 m
stretch of quay, without excessive delay.
10.       The following table shows the average daily landings during March
and April at the principal south coast ports for 1970-72 and existing capacity:
Number of vessels unloading their catches per day
Average     Existing Daily
1970     1971     1972      1970-72         Capacity
Thorlakshofn               16        27       21         21             14
Grindavik                  48        50       50         49             32
Vestmannaeyjar             47        45       42         45              _
111      122       113       115              46
The shortfall of existing capacity compared to actual daily landings is in
line with reported delays and resulting loss of fishing time.  The use of
average landings per day greatly understates the delays experienced on many
peak days. Also, four to eight days per month, the entire fleet remains in
harbor because of storms. The distribution of daily landings is therefore
*       highly skewed.  For example, in Grindavik during April 1973, with a large
influx of boats due to the volcanic eruption, the average daily landings were



ANN1EX 4
Page 4
73, but on one-third of the fishing days over 90 vessels landed.  Nevertheless,
the conservative approach of relating planned capacity to historical average
daily landings during the peak two months was used.
11.       Tables 1-4 show the quantities of cod and other demersal fish landed
each month in 1970-73 at the principal south coast harbors, as well as the
number of boats and landings. On this basis the average quantity per landing
has been computed.  In addition, daily data on landings during March 1973 were
obtained (Table 5) for 25 boats (some 10% of the total fleet engaged i-n the
cod fishery in the peak season). Table 6 shows the number of da-ly landings,
quantW-y landed each day and '"harbor days" in Grindavik and Thorlakshofn
during February-April 1973.
12.       It will be seen that the catches vary considerably froma day to day
and this is also reflected inr the monthly average for quantity per landing.
Average quantity landed in these harbors during the whole season ranges for.
5.8 tons per landing in 1972 to 10.1 tons in 1970.  For Thorlakshofn, Grindavik
and Vestmannaeyjar, in the four years 1970-73, the average landing was 8.3 tons.
Project Sites
13.       The south coast harbors perform two functions:  shelter during
winter storms that spring up quickly and can reach hurricane proportions, and
as places for daily delivery of fish. The south coast has few fishing harbors
and of these, only Thorlakshofn, Grindavik and Hornafjordur are capable of
improvement within an acceptable time Period and cost. None of these have
safe entrances and harborage during bad weather, and during the pirincipal cod
season all are overcrowded except Horriafjordur, which has a marginal location
for the winter cod fishery.  At present, the basin at Thozlakshofa is unsa ae
and badly overcrowded during southeast winds and the entrance to Grindavik
is dangerous during winds from the southeast, south and southwest. The basia
at Grindavik, although generally safe, required further dredging and new jetties
to accommodate its fleet even before the influx of Vestmannaeyjar vessels fol-
lowing the volcanic eruption.
14.       Specifying the oatimum locationa and amount of new investmenz to atta:n
the project objective (para 3) is difficult. The locaticn of fish stocks
changes considerably during and between seasons. In addition, the rate and
extent of movement of people and fishing boats back to Vestmannaeyjar is un-
certain. The proposed nroject would finance improvements at Thorlakshofn,
Grindavik and Hornafjordur to offset the port dislocations caused by the
eruption at Vestmannaeyjar.  This analysis of naeeded investments focuses on
Thorlakshofn and Grindavik where the bulk of the displaced Vestmanaaey-4ar
vessels are expected to remain and the principal investments are proposed.
15.       The ports at Thorlakshofn and Grindavik ideally require investments
to p T . -LL  SSl capacity for the average dai'y landings at those ports during
1970-72 (70 vessels), plus one-third to one-half of the daily landings at
Vestmannaeyjar (15 to 23 vessels)j for a total of 85 to 93 vessels.  However,
the project would actually provide a daily estimated capacity of 81 vessels,
0



AN1NEX 4
0                                                                       Page 5
which is near the desired capacity if one-third of Vestmannaeyjar vessels
stay on the mainland. Because of the uncertainty of the percentage of
Vestmannaeyjar vessels that will return to Vestmannaeyjar and the imprecision
in the definition of capacity, the amount of investment has been kept to the
lowest possible level. Many more than 81 vessels could be accommodated during
peak days, but with delays in unloading that would be expensive in terms of
lost fishing time. Additional unloading quays could be provided later as the
situation warrants. At Thorlakshofn, once the breakwaters are completed,
additional quays could be built at costs that could be met by the Harbors
Authority's regular capital budget.
16.       A straight comparison of the theoretical daily vessel capacities
at Thorlakshofn and Grindavik with and without the project oversimplifies
the real impact of the project, Without the project, the existing capacity
at both ports is zero on some days. The project would provide safe entrance
and berthing at Thorlakshofn in virtually all tides and weather for vessels
of up to 500 GRT. Fishing vessels would no longer quit in bad weather for
fear of being unable to return to port. The improvement at Grindavik would
not be as complete as at Thorlakshofn but would nevertheless be substantial.
Vessels of up to 250 GRT would be able to enter Grindavik in all tides.
However, the passage would remain difficult and all but the most experienced
local skippers would find the entrance somewhat hazardous (although much
_       improved from the present) in bad weather.
17.       The decision to concentrate the major project investments at
Thorlakshofn was based on several grounds. First, it is closest to the
center of the best cod fishing in most years. Thus, it is likely to be the
location permitting greatest catches. Second, experience gained during the
latter part of the 1973 winter cod season, after the initial confusion created
by the volcanic eruption had been overcome, indicated that Thorlakshofn fit
in most closely with the fishing operations and needs of the Vestmannaeyjar
vessels. Third, due to hard rocks in its entrance, the Grindavik harbor
could not be sufficiently improved at acceptable cost to provide a safe en-
trance in all tides and weather.
18.       Thorlakshofn will require a sizeable new breakwater to make it safe
in bad weather. Thus, no improvement would be ready there for the January-May
1974 cod season, some improvement would be available for 1975, and total im-
provement for 1976. Grindavik, however, can be improved significantly in time
for the next winter cod season, thus justifying its inclusion under the proj-
ect. This would bring some immediate relief to the chaotic situation expec-
ted during the January-May 1974 cod season and lasting improvement for ves-
sels normally fishing on grounds adjacent to Grindavik. But only Thorlakshofn
can safely be judged capable of providing all-weather entrance and berthing
for vessels expected to be in the fishery during the next few years.
.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
B. Economic Analysis
Project Benefits
19.       The proposed improvement and expansion of the ports in Thorlakshofn,
Grindavik and Hornafjordur would benefit the economy by about US$2.2 million
per year at full development in 1976 (fourth year after project commencement),
due to a reduction in boat damage, an increase in fishing days as a result of
safer harbor entrances, and a reduction in waiting time to unload.
20.       Reduction in Vessel Damage.  Inadequate facilities and overcrowding
cause considerable damage to the fishing boats, particularly during bad
weather. At Grindavik two vessels were lost this season at the harbor
entrance. Based on information obtained from insurance companies it is
estimated that, on the average, one fishing boat (at assumed average size of
70 GRT) with replacement value of IKr 20.0 million (US$220,000) is lost every
two years attempting to enter Grindavik harbor. Thorlakshofn port offers
insufficient shelter and damage is caused by boats hitting against each other
in the crowded landing quays. This repairable damage, estimated at a yearly
average of IKr 3 million (US$34,000) in previous years, increased to IKr 13
million (US$147,000) in 1973. By improving the entrance to Grindavik, ship
losses would decrease with an annual savings to the economy of about IKr 10
million per year. The increase in berthing facilities would decrease repaira-
ble damage by some IKr 10 million per year. In sum, the project would bring
about annual savings of about IKr 20 million (US$226,000).
21.       Increased Number of Fishing Days.  Improving the harbor entrances
would have a considerable impact (although difficult to quantify) on the
fishery. The number of days that the vessels are in port due to bad weather
- "harbor days" - is presented in Table 6. On some of these days boats leave
the fishing grounds early or remain in harbor for fear of being unable to get
back into harbor if the weather becomes too bad. Project improvements would
increase the number of days on which the skippers feel they can count on a
safe harbor entry, which means that there would be a greater number of fishing
days. Conservatively, it has been assumed that, under the normal weather
conditions, one fishing day per month would be gained by each boat landing
in Grindavik and Thorlakshofn during February and March. Also, the feeling
of greater safety would likely have a favorable impact on fishing efficiency.
This would mean an additional 1,500 tons per year with a total value of
US$0.5 million. 1/
1/ Estimated calculations of the value to the economy by an additional
ton of unprocessed cod are presented in Table 8.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
22.       Reduction in Time Spent Waiting to Unload.  *The project would add
facilities which would reduce the time vessels spend in port waiting to unload
their catch, thus enabling fishing for a longer time each day. As explained
in Annex 2 quantities of mature cod which may be taken by the Icelandic fishing
fleet will be on the increase as conservation efforts on the nursery grounds
begin to show results.
23.       No statistics are available on the number of hours in which the
boats are actually engaged in fishing, but the average may be some 12 hours
(leaving 6-10 hours for going to and from the fishing grounds and 2-6 hours
for the stay in the harbor for unloading - including waiting time - and
minor repairs, rest and taking on supplies). Based on 12 hours' fishing per
day, the average catch per hour comes to 0.7 tons.
24.       As conditions for the fishery in the 1974-75 seasons are expected
to be as they were in the past few years, the conclusion can be drawn that
for each additional hour in fishing operations, each boat will have an addi-
tional catch of some 0.7 tons. After 1975, the conservation measures in the
nursery grounds are expected to show further results, so that the catch per
additional hour may increase. However, for the purpose of the economic rate
of return calculation, it is assumed that the marginal catch per hour of
fishing will remain at 0.7 tons.
25.       To determine the reduction in waiting time, port operations with
and without the project were simulated in a computer model for each year from
1974 to 1994. The traffic projections used in the simulation (Table 7) are
based on the following set of assumptions:
a)   During the 1974 winter cod season, as a result of renewed
operations in some of the plants, Vestmannaeyjar will re-
ceive up to 12 landings per day. The remaining vessels are
expected to make 26 daily landings in Thorlakshofn and 16
in Grindavik.
b)   By 1978, 25 to 27 Vestmannaeyjar vessels will have to be
accommodated in mainland ports, making 10 daily landings in
Grindavik and 15 in Thorlakshofn in addition to those
normally made in these harbors.
26.       The results of the simulation in terms of time savings per vessel,
additional tons of fish, and their value are presented in Table 9.  By reduc-
ing waiting time and thus increasing the time fishermen spend on the grounds,
there will be an average increase in the catch of 4,600 tons per year. With
net value to the economy of an incrementaL ton of fish at US$327 (Table 8),
a yet benefit of about US$1.5 million per year would be derived.
0



ANNEX 4
Page 8.
Future Expansion
27.       Although a basic working assumption in the project design is that
over the next four to five years from one-half to two-thirds of the boats
will return to Vestmannaeyjar, one should nevertheless consider the possibi-
lity of new eruptions at Vestmannaeyjar and the consequent need for mainland
harbors to accommodate the entire fleet. In this case the project, especially
in Thorlakshofn and Hornafjordur, provides the basic structure needed for
future expansion.
Economic Rate of Return
28.       The economic life of the project is assumed to be 20 years.  Project
investment cost includes capital cost for improvement and expansion of the
harbors, engineering and supervision services, and physical contingencies, net
of taxes.
29.       The economic rate of return would be 28% including physical contin-
gencies in the investment cost (Table 10).  If physical contingencies were
not included, the rate of return would be 32%. If project cost were increased
by 25% and no change in benefits were assumed, the rate of return would be
21%. If the incremental catch per hour were decreased by 25% (from 0.7 tons
to 0.525 tons) the rate of return would be 22%; and decreasing all benefits
by 25% would result in a rate of return of 19%. Even with these variations,
the economic rate of return remains acceptable.
0



ANTEX L
ICELAND                        Table 1
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
HORNAFJOR.DUR
Number of Boats and Landings _and Quantities   Landed
No. of    No.of   Quntity   Quantity
Boats8,  Landings   (tons)  per Landing
(tons)
1970 - January                   10         69         361         5.2
February                 10        113          603         5.3
March                    11         299       2,136         7.1
April                     12        151       3, 926       26.0
May                       12         52         191         3.7
June                     19          56        176          3.1
July                     11          54         206         3.8
August                    11         49         211         4.3
September                11          72         285        4.0
October                    5         30        116          9.9
November                   6         55        315          5.7
December                   3          8          29         3.6
1971- January                    11        107         475         4.4
February                 12        130          585         4.5
March                     12        256       2,984        11.7
April                     14        189       2,665        14.1
May                       12         73         413         5.7
June                     19        n/a          398        n/a
July                      20       n/a          248        n/a
August                    14         84         273         3.4
September                12         54         145          2.3
October                    7         24          91         3.8
November                   7         26         113         4.3
December                   3          3          1          0.3
1972 - January                    7         28          81         2.9
February                 10        105       1,142         10.9
March                     10        206       2,685        13.0
April                     14        249       2,667        10.7
May                       15         78         179         2.3
June                      20       121          234        1.9
July                     18         n/a         247         n/a
August                    19         47         233         5.0
September                  8        n/a        191          n/a
October                    8         23          94         4.1
November                   5         15          52         3.5
December                   2          8          31
1973   January                    9         59         328         5.5
February                 10        120          951         7.9
March                     15        247       2,148         8.7
April                     14        230       1,617         7.0
May                       14         53         281         5.3
T Landed weight (regardless of whether gutted, ungutted, etc.); demersal fish only.
& Includes all boats larixLng in particular port during that month; thus have some
double counts.



AnNEX 4l
ICELAND                        Table 2
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
VESTMANNAEYJAR
Niumber of Boats and Landings, and Quantities /1 Landed
No. of       No. of       Quantity      Quantity
Boats 2    Landings         (tons)     per Landing
(tons)
1970 - January          35           237          1,153          4.9
February        61           654           4,501         6.9
March           79          1,222         10,939         9.0
April           79         1,617          20,333        12.6
May             73            396          2,998         7.6
June            60           n/a           3,569         n/a-
July            64           n/a           4,910         n/a
August          57            199          1,546         7.8
September       49           260           1,724         6.6
October         41            206          1,129         5.5
November        47            239            803         3.4
December        31           112             849         7.6
1971 - January         43            198            885          7.4
February        60           515           2,449         4.8
March           82          1,423          8,435          5.9
April           87         1,311           9,003         6.9
May             78            519          4,853          9.4
June            77           483           5,128        10.6
JUlY            87           472           3,695         7.8
August          63            264          2,039         7.7
September       56           233           1,204         5.2
October         48           245           1,083         4.4
November        37            200            772         3.9
December        28            57             357         6.3
1972 - January         47            141            846         6.o
February        60            513          2,590         5.0
March           78          1,334          8,077         6.1
April           78         1,241           9,295         7.5
May             71           352           1,904         5.4
June            77           582           4,358         7.5
July            76           454           3,300         7.3
August          31           281           1,428         5.1
September       56           209             868         4.2
October         37            202            915         4.5
November        39            209          1,454         3.2
December        43           192           2,076        10.8
1973 - January         17             63            744        11.8
/1   Landed weight (regardless of whether gutted, ungutted, etc.); demersal fish only.
L2   Includes all boats landing in particular port during that month; thus have some
double counts.



I5ELAND                              AxNNEX h
Table 3
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
THORLAKSHOFN
Nnwber of Boats and, Landings, and Quantities L  Landed
No. of      No. of        Quantity       Quantity
Boats /2    Landings        (tons)       per Landing
(tons)
1970  - January              7            76            202            2.7
February            26          244          1,465            6.o
March               30          242          3°,034          12.5
April               58           710        11,470           16.1
May                 20            92            705           6.6
June                38           63            425            6.7
July                44          116            744            6.4
August              38           118           621            5.3
September          n/a           n/a           219            n/a
October             13          102            240            2.4
Noverbier           1)4           95           247            2.6
December            12            57           298            5.2
1971  - January             13           103            446            4.3
-February            29          312          1,696            5.4
March               50           809         4,573            5.7
April               61          801          9,309            6.6
M,ay                28           168         1,360            8.1
June                45          139            891            5.4
=               July                45           133           7)45           5.6
August              28           102           698            6.8
-September          23            63            402            6.4
October              8            50           297            5.9
November            1)4           82           324            3.4
December            13           31            187            5.0
1972  - January             19            68            236            3.5
February            32           3)40        2,119            6.2
March               45           568         4,948            8.7
April               51           719         5,232             7.3
May                 34           201           952            4.7
Tune                49          162          1,428            8.8
July                42           135           823            6.1
August              25            75           436            3.3
September           17           38            326            8.5
October              5            12           110            9.2
November             9            34           317            9.3
December            12            32           42)4          13.4
1973  - January             2)4           82            533            6.5
February            33          288          1,877            6.5
March               65           634         6,927           10.9
April              111        1,052         16,585           15.8
May                 89           298         2,694           14.2
/1  Landed weight (regardless of whether gutted, ungutted, etc.);  demersal
fish only.
/2   Includes all boats landing in partc cular port during that month; thus have
some double counts.



ANNEX 4
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT             Table 4
GRINDAVTh
Tumber of Boats and Landings, and Quantities i. Landed
No. of      No. of       Quantity       Quantity
GRINDAVIK                 Boats /2    Landings        (tons)      per Landing
(tons)
1970  - January             30            280        1,256           4.5
February            51           585         5)200           8.9
March               84         1,218         7,965           6.5
April               94         1,687        24,460          14.5
May                 78           491         2,799           5.7
June                52           133           603           4.5
July                73           282         1o069           3.7
August              56           180           613           3.4
September           38           155           529           3.4
October             35           163           414           2.5
November            44           210           878           4.2
December            30           114           643           5.6
1971  - January             73            490        2 652           5.4
February            88            743       14,673           6.3
March              102         1,625        10,769           6.6
April              108         1,402        15,931          11.4
May                 86            781        6,474           8.3
June               102           454         2,072           4.6
July                82           392         1,608           4.1
August              57           170           773           4.5
September           39           145           703           4.8
October             39           269           932           3e5
November            22           181           355           2.0
December            19            52           435           8.4
1972  - January             49            244        1,377           5.6
February            72           613         3,591           5.9
March               80         1,1414        7,951           7.0
April              115         1,869        12,800           6.8
May                 87           677         3,494           5.2
June               101           546         1,993           3.7
July                84           363         1,611           4.6
August              66           171         1,017           5.9
September           35            95           548           5.8
October             35           225           827           3.7
November            37           214         1,258           5.9
December            33           114           957           8.4
1973 - January              49            191          855           4.5
February            52           380         1,521           4.0
March               79         1,035         8,369           8.1
April             153          2,184        21,708           9.9
May                136           900         5,107           5.7
L  Landed weight (regardless of whether gutted, ungutted, etc.);  demersal fish
only.
2 Includes all boats landing in particular port during that month; thus have some
double counts.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
ICEIAND
FISHING HARBORS R$HABILITATTON PROJECT
LandinRs by Sample Boats, March 1 - 30, 1973
Boat      Number of
No. GRT   Landings          Catch per Landing (fishing day)
High       _ Low           Averag
-  (kg)        (kg)           (tons)
Hornafj?Jrdur-
1   148       21        18,045        ?,455              8.8
2   103       211       26,585          925             10.5
3    86       17        20,765        1,100              8.7
4   136       15        22,130        1,475             10.9
5   208       13        2o,665        4,135             12.6
Grindavik
1   103       23        36,600         3,530            17.0
2  n/a        23        35,140        1,290              8.8
3    87       25        35,140           770            12.0
=  4   101    24        30,840         2,700            11.9
5    71       25        37,Z80        3,590             12.5
6   306       22        49,860         7,650            22.8
7   248       24        33,440        5,270             13.3
8   198       25        3z,340        4,650             12.7
9    74       23        18,900        4,390             10.0
10    74       25        39,430        3,710             14.0
Thorlks6fn
1   149       26        30,130         2,060             9.1
2    72       25        24,940        2,190              9.5
3   105       22        40,020        8,990             19.5
4   104       26        38,000         3,000            12.7
5   140       26        25,140        2,z60              9.2
6   115       22        34,340        2,450             11.3
7  187        25        28,930        2,170              8.8
8  105        25        26,199          860             10.9
9   103      24         32,970        2,290             14.2
10   105       26        42,990        2,110             16.8



IC2LAND
FISHING  PARNORJ XtHABILITATlON 2R0.TECT
Number of laudings and Quantities Landed Eac Day,
February - April 1973, in Grindavik and Thorl&aBhofn
Grindvik                             Thorl6Kksh8fn                                       Grindavik                            Thorlskbho n                                         Grindavik                             ThorIGkh5fn
Total       Av-o,rg                     Total       AvragEe                              Totel        Average                    Total        Average                              Total        Averag.                     Tot:l       Averago
Quantity     Quantity                   Quantity     Quantity                            Quantity      Quantity                   Quantity     Quantity                            Quantity      Quantity                   Quantity      quantity
No. of    L-O.&d      per Landing       No. of     Landed    per Landing                 No. of      Landed    per Landing       Xo. Of      Landed    per Landing                 No. of      Landed    per Lading         No. of     Lavided    per 1,54d. g
Li;_    3pteoo                                Lu.dine    (tone)          (tote)          late    anding)                  (tenn)        _      o    )tonatotse)_ate_ Lend3ngD    (tn) _                              (tons)       Landings    (ton)   (t Oot)
Fet.                                                                                     MoroN                                                                                     April
1       22        45.1          2,1              8        78.4           9.8             1        1          3,6          3.6              3        80.2          26.7             1       66        359,4          5.4             29     1,263.3          43.6
2        1         6.7          6.7              7         26.2          3.7             2        9           -            -               5       836.6         167.3             2       72        408.3          5.7             38       429.1           11.3
3        17r/       -            -                                        -              3        PI                       -               1        38.3          38.3             3        6         65.o         10.8             30       242.1           8.1
p          - _                          1          4.3          4.3             4       13        109.7          8.4            i6        140.7           8.8             4       57        507.1          8.9             28       189.3           6.8
5       '6       ;16.3          7.3             17       152.8           9.0             5       37        166.5          4.5            24      1,120.6          46.7             5       82        573.7          7.0             32       213 8           6.7
6        >          .            _-              -           _                           6       39        150,2          3.9            24        41L.2          17.1             6       80        692.5          8.7             35       343.7            9.8
39       16or .6        4.               8        29.8           3.7             7       19         79.4         4.2             20        126.2         63.1              7       86        588.9         6,8             31        355.9          1L.5
33       136.2          4.1             16     2,087.6         130.5             3       25        150.2         6.o             23        209.9          9.1             8        70        435.5         6.2             37        414.2          11.2
35       122.2          3.5             12     1,597.8         133.7             9       44        323.7         7.4             211    1,162.6           48.4             9       84        577.4         6.9              30       335.8          11.2
26       104,7          4,0              9        52.7           5.3            10       34        220.8          6.5            30        866.5          28.9            10       84        770,8          9.2             44     1,006.7           22.9
_:                      . _             p          _             .             11       16        123.7         7.'7              3       152.9          51.0            11       84        893.5        10.6              41       473.9          11.6
,2        ;t          -           -               3         15.7           5.2           12        41       363.7          8.9             24       407.3          17.0            12        88     1,000.0.        11.4             49     1,706.9           34.8
35       140.7          4.2              *        39.2           '.8            13       44        335.0          7.6            28        855.2          30.5            13       93        788.3         8.5              39       985.8          25.3
La       17r         _            _              10       907,1          3C.7            14       40        286.7          7.2            20        681.4          34.1            14       80        704.3          8.8             44     1,024.8          23.3
*       33       211.9          5.5              9        120.7         14.2            ]-5       32       164.0          5.7             17       140.7           8.3            15         ,          _            _               9        156.4       .  17.4
.6       9          -            -              10     1,323,0         132.3            16        39       2.98.7         7.7             28       358.0          12.8            16       70        938.7         13.4             44        886.3          20.1
_7        p          _                            2        270.6        135.3            17        45       328,7          7.3             22       331.2          15.1            17        90       886.5          9.8             44        692.1          15.7
;          _            _               1        15.4          15.4            18       40        304.7          7.6             1I       154.7          14.1            18       86        781.0          9.1             33        615.1         18.6
19       19        92.3          4.9             11        106.3          9.7            19        47       385.7          8.2             23       374.7          16.3            19        93       890.7          9.6             45        916.1,         20.4
20       38       125.1          3.3             11        294.5         26.8            20        51       367.7          7.2             25       210.0           8.4            20        .9          -            _                           -             -
21        1         3.1          3.1             10      1,695.4        169.5            21        33       193.9          5.9             32     1,063.1          33.2            21        93     1,508.3         16.2             43      1,159.7          27.0
22        9           -            .             10        352.2          35.2           22        27       179.2          6.6             36        769.7         21.4            22         Al          -            -              PI          -              -
03       26        94..8         3.6             15        729.7          48.6           23        43       416.4          9.7             23        179.7          7.8            23        99     1,675.4         16.9             42      1,108.5          26.4
24       38        94,3          2.5             17        158.7           9.3           24        47       316.2          6,7             30      1,206.5         40.2            24       104     1,152.5         11.1              40       748.8          18.7
25        p           _            _              5        803,4         160.7           25        46       346,2          7.5             32        430.2         15.4            25        96     1,057.9         11.0              55     1,323.2          24.1
26       40        147.0         3.7             17        227.5          13.4           26        29        307.2        10.6             23        179.2           7.8           26       100      1,034.5        10.3              57     1,059.5          18.6
27        7        17.6          2.5              7        197.9          28.3           27        60        637.6        19.6             31        39L.0         12.6            27        82        816,7        10.0              53       882.8          16.7
2-.      18         51.0         2.8             2 -   12j7.8              8.6           28        45       498.4         11,1             31        45e.1         14.8            28       109     1,106.6         10.2              45       750.6          16.7
_____ . -.---....--..--.-.-.--------                          ~~~       ~~          ~~~                              ~ ~~~29  9x   -  1  1.8.1  18.1    29        12         711            .9             4          Q1.5         15.~4
-,w    433      1,680,9          3.             244        91.8          47.8            30        51        709.9        13.9             25        302.7         12.1            30       128     1,052,0          8.2             49   _5.4                11,2
--                                      ~~~~31     62       6021,18.4                                          ...22_
/    i0ndicates `harbor day," i.e., sll boats had to stay in the harbor,                                                                                                           Total 2,194    21,336,6           9.7          1.070    19,898,4           18,6
apparently due to bad uesthr.                                                        Totl 1057        8,440.6          8.0            67     14     .7         22.0
.                                                                                      -                                                                                                              -~~



** 
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILTrATION PROJECT
Cod Season - Average Daily Arrivals
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978-1994
Thorlakshofn
February                  9       11      12       11      37       32       25      20         17
March                     8       26      18       20      44       40       35      32         33
April                    24       27      24       35      50       47       45      43         41
Orindavik
February                 21       27      21       14      37       35       32      30         27
March                    40       52      37       33      53       50       47      45         43
April                    56       47      62       73      78       75       73      70         68
Hornafjordur
February                  4        5       4        4       5        9        9       9          9
March                    10        8        7       8        9      13       13      13         13
April                     5        6       8        7       8       12       12      12         12
Ve stmannaeyj ar
February                 23       18      18        -       5        8       10      13         13
March                    39       46      43        _       11      16       20       28        28
April                    54       44      41        _       12      15       25      31         31
SOURCE: Fisheries Association 6f Iceland and mission estimates.



AI'NNE'.]X i4
Table 5
CELPNJ0
Jte=XI .i&x -?3BCBS IEH'B I zITAETCN P.?IZOJB,C-
Ti'ue to Economy of Addi t iona' ',on of Unprocessed Cod
Each additThional ton of frozen fillets exported would give the
followln7n fob, value:
Val ue (June 1973) de' ivered US
(6W4  Per lb)                           US$1 ,410 oer metric ton of fillet
L.ess: Brokerage, customs, etc.
(say) 5%                        $70
Transport to US             53           123
fob value -Iceland                            US$1 ,2J7 per metnic ton of fillet
One ton of fish (ungutted) yields approxirately one-third ofL a ton of
frozen fillets for export.  Thus, the fob value of one-third ton of fillet
(i.e., one ton of unprocessed cod) would be US$1429 or IRKr38,000.  The net
value to the econcny of each incremental ton of unprocessed cod (i.e., one-
third1 ton of T illets), after deducting incremental plant and vessel costs,
would be as follo7ws:
US$           E-Xr
(Per ton of unprocessed cod)
fob value (one-'third ton of fillets)            429           38 000
Less variable costs:
Plant (22% of fob value)  1/                 94            8,350
Vessel variable costs (fuel and
gear-maintenance -- 9% of f°ob
value )                                   8               750
5) b t otal.                       102            9,100
Net va''luc to economy of incremental ton
of unprocessed cod                          327           28,900
I/ Assumes one-half of "wa-es and related pay" directly variable with tons
handled; data from Economic Development Institute and covering years 1969-73.



ANNEX 4
Table 9
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Time Saving in Harbors and Incremental Catches
1974    1975     1976     1977    1978-1994
Tirne Savings
(hours/vessel/day)
Thorlakshofn                    -        1.22     1.19     1.17        1.16
Grindavik                      1.01      0.97     0.91     0.90        o.84
Incremental Catch
(tons)
Thorlakshofn                    -       2,750    2,500    2,330       2,250
Grindavik                     3,500    3,200    2,870    2,730        2,420
Total                     3,500    5,950    5,370    5,o60       4,670
Value of Incremental /1
Catch
(us$ oOo)                 1,1414.5  1,945.6  1,756.3  1,6514.6   1,527.1
/1  Net value to economy of an incremental ton of fish is US$327.  See
Table 8 for detailed caiculaticn.



ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect    m c    tate of   trla
1973       1974         1975          1976          1977        1978-1994
A.  Project Cost                          2,287.0      4,700.6      1,627.1         191.0          -             -
Physical Contingency                    104.0   A 2L.5            2h4.1          28.2          -
TOTAL                     2,391.0      5,453.1      1,871.2         219.2          -             -
B. Net Benefits
1.  Reduction in Boat                    -            56.5        200.0         226.0         226.0         226.0
Damages
2.  Reduction in "Harbor                 -           358.3        575.2        542.8         521.0         500.0
LIS It
3.  Reduction in Harbor                  -         1i144.5      1,945.6        71_654.6                  1,527.1
Waiting Time
TOTAL                                  1,559.3      2,720.8       2,525.1       2,401.6       2,253.1
C. Net Cost/Benefit                      (2,391.0)   (3,893.0)        849.6       2,305.9      2,401.6       2,253.1
Stream
Project Economic Rate of Return                      :  28 %
Sensitivity: a. - without physical contingencies  :  32 %
b. - with physical Contingencies and
investment cost increase of 21%:   21 %
c. - with a decrease of incremental
catch per hour of 25%             :   22 %
d. - with a benefit decrease of 25% :       9 %
0 *



AJlNU
ICELANb
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_     LOCAN           op.                1                                       .                            1-A  A.978
a   ~~~T   a       ~    * Zh.6
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
.~~~~~I -
Th2 A TAOAAN                                   - 
liA.. BAAr






ANNEX 6
Table la
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
A.  Thorlakshofn                            Local    Foreign    Total
- - - (IKr million) - - - -
Main breakwater system                       137        128        265
Extension existing breakwater                 15         45         60
Landing quay including building
and fittings                              15         30         45
Berthing quay including buildings
and fittings                              12         23         35
Dredging and reclamation                       2           7         9
Provision services:
Light, power, fuel, water                  6         14         20
Hydraulic models and associated
site investigations                        1          6          7
Consulting engineer servie.es
including geotechnical investi-
gations and surveys                        3         25         28
Subtotal                           191        278        469
Contingencies /1
Physical                                  12         60         72
Price                                     39         28         67
Total                             242         366       608
38%        62%       100%
/1 15% physical contingency. Price contingency: 7% per year on foreign
and 15% per year on domestic purchases.
0



ANNEX 6
Table 1b
ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
B.  Grindavik                          Local     Foreign       Total
- - -  (IKr million) - 
Landing quay                              3          16           19
Berthing quay                            10          20          30
Pierhead protection                       2           7           9
West basin quay supports                  1           1            2
Quay surfaces                            10          10           20
Harbor roadways                           2           3           5
Miscellaneous buildings and
services                               2          3
Dredging soft material (basins)          14          19          33
Rock removal:
Loose rock/boulders (channel)         15          15          30
Soft bed rock (basin)                  4          17          21
Hard rock (basin and channel)         36          67         103
Navigation beacons                        3          10           13
Small-scale hydraulic model               1           1           2
Consulting engineer services.
including site investigations
and surveys                            4          14          18
Suibtotal                        107         203          310
Contingencies l
Physical                               9          22          31
Price                                  8           9          17
Total                             124        234          358
35%        65%         100%
/1   10% physical contingency.  Price contingency: 7% per year on foreign
and 15% per year on domestic purchases.



ANNEX 6
Table le
ICELANDTa
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
C. Hornafjordur                          Local     Foreign       Total
- - -  (IKr million)
Landing quay                                8          10          18
Miscellaneous services and
surfacing                                1          3            4
Excavation and reclamation                  1           2           3
Subtotal                               10         15           25
Contingencies
Physical                               1.0        1.0            2
Price                                    1         0.5         1.5
Total                               12.0       16.5         28.5
112%       58%        100%
/1   15% physical contingency.  Price contingency: 7% per year on foreign
and 15% per year on domestic purchases.






AdDE 7
I C7ElND
FISHING HARBORS REHEABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year and           Disbursements              Disbursements
Quarter Ending              Du±ing Quarter           at End of Quarter
(in US$ millions)
1973-74
September 30, 1973                  1.37                      1.37
December 31, 1973                   0.39                      1.76
March 31, 1974                      0.33                       2.09
June 30, 1974                       1.47                      3.56
1974-75
September 30, 1974                  1.03                      4.59
December 31, 1974                   0.61                      5.20
March 30, 1975                      0.76                      5.96
June 30, 1975                       0.50                      6.46
1975-76
September 30, 1975                  0.36                      6.82
December 31, 1975                   0.17                      6.99
March 31, 1976                      0.11                       7.00






IBRD 10597R
.1    AUGUST   1973
A                      *-tlil  '°tSCom-)~~~~~~*  '°
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
% X     .z I                                       "'.
-Po~~~~~~~~~~U-
tr- ~    1 
io     -4:s                              
>   t4   r : g K  r;$ |  >    b ° i~tu t
'0                               U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
01 -*                      >
4
In
LU
g/ /   b E  Z b             b
*0       9                        =    






ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                   EXTENT OF tAVA FLOW
VESTMANNAEYJAR                                                                         ----OLD COAST LINE
SUILT- Up AREAS
EFFECTS OF VOLCANIC ERUPTION                                                                          ROADS
>// P OR                                        t                                            t METERS
I~~~~~/ AIRPORT r #7   
//                               /v~~~    fi                                KFShM-----------------






1BRD 10600
AUGUST 1973
I    \k     r      \    \       \ I   
T ICELAND
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATON PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                      \
THORLAKSHOFN AfTERNAT1VE A   \                                                                                            ,,
\       \     \ Wi;   .N' .'=0   -.                       .                                 
X    \    t  X\                r 4--i                                                                                                                                         ,       ,    ,/.-
\:E N    \9       X                                                                                                                                                     -      s   
SEA BOTTOM CONTOURS IN METERS                                                                                                                                                                                                     / -
ALL SOUNDINGS REFER DO M L W ST DATU
4.,F  Z'.FEM.T: .011   NVIHOWN Irl RED  \
N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
I C  E L  A   N   D
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
54~ ~~ ~ ~     ~                                   ;     \E  '    T'                    " TB'  ' H                                                                                                                           t
4 R T~~ ~ ~  - .',,,O O..w,~ -  .  r!& W R. F/ S . /,
N'    ~~~~~~~~~~'                /~~Z l    '
~~~~~~~~~\,7_  TA'590>    5 t
, ,   R E f C      X. S A ~ ~   , <   i - -       -       E> '  93/\\.
.: M: :    \  ;,; ; ;;;;  :- T'    ;;;OI .                                    N>                                                -                                                .\                             R
r     R ;     r            t                     ,3                                                                                    -                       .          F ! L L !.:J\EYR.R-KI
A ~~~~/~~~nI/E'  C ~~~~~~~~A f/~i,    STOKKRSEYRi'






IBO10601
V                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1973
FISHING HARBORS REKIUAiN PROJECT% 
THORLAKSHF           LENTV                                             N 
V  N~~~~~~~~~~~~N
0  lo~~~~~~~~o  2W  3w ~    ~       ~       ~         \                      N'
.ET- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I                            N~  
\  N  ~X
-  SEA BOTTOM CONTOURS IN METERS  N~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N  "  'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IE  C., E  L       ND                    HRLKSOF
N  'N                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
REYKJAVIX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
N,        N                                                                                                             -   15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HR~KHF
A t I o  t i c  0 c 0   nN    NN.                                                                                                                                                                 '
22'~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






24   J~~~~~~~ ~IBRD  10598R
--~~~~~~pc i-___x  i  _' --  ''
-66 e    ge:S;   X,,   t_u  < 2 ,,,  <VA           . r           66
I C E L A N D                                                            
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT
GRINDAVIK:IMPROVEMENTS TO BASIN AND APPROACHES
I C E L A N D
DREDG NG                                                               REYKJAVIK'.-
/ /- A 4  ROCK REMOVAL                                                  64        ' PRJC  c     ,,6SV
-'  SEA ROTTOM CONTOURS IN METERS                                              OTdBF      \,A I'
/ 7                                                 g/W+S' \' S '- 0 0 U                                                                     \ (         \-v   >     X//i7 C § LAND CONTOURS IN METERS  -.  ' -  Ocean
/                                                                                 ~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22  2' ---    RE  4
1   - V 7   \   ;   =4|  ii                   IC/G  -, ' F'')V J  ,FN A --HO'ArA rA   RED                           L,
C'  -d7A~~~~~~~l \  4741                 ,,                        0              10~~~~~~~~~~0  200
o  R a; ,  +a js  <   ; U   a///     METERS
_ _                                                                                                      -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -'~~b  
4 54 
I I    K I'VE    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                       NY ATONBECO
X  f  <                  -        *i;                                                  ;              ffff  0               ^        ' {f              0       ; X               \    \>\ D\W/IN- Wt' SCkE
31,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
r.5-T:'rP;  CHrrTTrDPL  r''colicVrQuAl'''   X   +   O   1 1 s   g   .  S   ..   -~~~~~~~~~  / f   s   '-¢                              ' _   .'          .       CJ
ILIrE,,C,A '' 'E   ',                                  'i
A''Cl  Sg-JC -. )0S  .r CSCT  P         14    -    ,                                             J~     n 60:0 j    N                                  'L                             "-.'C\.\    K<ti   
0;  af             Al    t                                                                                          I  ,           ;|t    . ,i ;            
CT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
AS                         /
, ) a - t 8 . . -- ' . . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALL SOUNDINGS REFER TO MLWST DATUM






IBRD  10599R
F_4f_____CI    -------________----
HORNAFJORDUR                                                                                   ICELAND                                          |.                                 COC, .'
FISHING HARBORS REHABILITATION PROJECT |E
PROPOSED LANDING QUAY EXTENSION
HORNAFJORDUR
/  OLD   \/\                                       6   *SEA BOTTOM CONTOURS IN METERS                                           I C  E L A  N  D
1Z7                                                 PROCESSING                                     
1:3   2           S                              \ PLANT                                                         ALL SOUNDNGS REFRER TO MLWST DATUM
CD OCT NrC-SCAT   A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'WY F COT~DCAI.
CD                                                                                             NFI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI-T,~~~~~~ E    5 5  8011  IU  REELIF5<~Ss,n
4 9 o  <                                                            METERS         . T                 wc  , gE,?                                    ,,    o ,p E.   .D6
/§/s/<  0':AX                        / \                                                        l      ~       ~~~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~ AJ/aflCo  Ocean
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ // -  51  -t                                                                              2 , \;S'    1           ,6 '
O     :!\ NEW PROCTESSING
Gog!Yfi- _t,   =,  i; -A L - e  =  /  x  g f Ji.-i          \                PLANT 
<_=  5  - s ! ! R _E_ . s g FFiE                                              5,                        -\
i    ; t s 1i t\  t r;   t  %fX rr. )  Sm ls ;; ;,)r O ;S S1sM in .;s     /                  /            X
\
\\\ \ 0 t S . _'tE                     ''.r ni   vTjj N                                                              DS   a   .f \C\  I  l$N
\~~~~~~ \                         \        't4i2ntti==2  ,=C  \. _tSC\, iN  'CAY=nr,~-Ei~-  ' - 7 1.IIII /
\&  '\l   0   = = ::$  <   ;    ;~~U=- =~~ t   2§        't^t  ='-g2m340"S:, :;!R # .7                       t       _I                                  CNTC'C  CC00 X§ Ct                   N
\\\W:   :;::2\:. :.   7r    L.i   ;::   .................:':::,:::.'r"i;~::::.:::U=SrE&Gi jl; Y;;'tM : pJEMN: ::: : :W:: ! $v,:U !;':t:::: ':::9 J: >:\ > .........................................AUGUST. U|S'S 4\ 



