                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 37294.

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70170)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                       COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
                       (MANOS A LA OBRA; PROYECTOS CUMUNITARIOS)




                                           September 20, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2006)

                           Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                              COP$2,252 = US$ 1.00
                           US$ 0.000444 = 1 COP

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1   December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BIRF        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / Banco Internacional de
            Reconstrucción y Fomento
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCONG       The Colombian Federation of NGOs / Confederación Colombiana de
            Organizaciones No Gubernamentales)
DAPRE-FIP   Office of the Presidency, Office of Peace and Reconciliation /Fondo de Inversion
            para la Paz del Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia
FINDETER    Financier of Territorial Development / Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial
FIP         Investment for Peace Fund / Fondo de Inversion para la Paz
FOREC       Fund for the Reconstruction and Social Development of Eje Cafetero / Fondo de
            Reconstrucción del Eje Cafetero
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOC         Government of Colombia
ICV         Quality of Life Index / Indice de Calidad de Vida
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IRR         Internal rate of return
ISR         Implementation Status and Results
LA          Loan Agreement
MIS         Management Information System
MSP         Ministry of Social Protection
NCU         National Coordination Unit within the DAPRE-FIP
NGO         Non governmental organization
NPD         National Planning Department / Departamento Nacional de Planeación
NPV         Net present value
OG          Management Organizations / Organismos de Gestión
OM          Operational Manual
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PADE        Direct Support Employment Program / Programa de Apoyo Directo
            al Empleo
PCD         Project Concept Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PSR         Project Supervision Report
RAS         Social Safety Net / Red de Apoyo Social
RCU         Regional Coordination Unit

SENA         National Training Institute / Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SIE          Subproject Implementing Entity
SIIF         Integrated System of Financial Information / Sistema Integrado de
             Información Financiera
SISBEN       Beneficiary Selection System / Sistema de Seleccion de Beneficiarios
TTL          Task team leader



                         Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                        Country Director       Isabel Guerrero
                         Sector Manager        Helena Ribe
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Wendy Cunningham

                                         COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
                                        Comunitarios)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               28
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
Annex 8: Borrower's Contribution                                                 47

Project ID: P068762                                                  Project Name: COMMUNITY WORKS AND
                                                                     EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
                                                                     Proyectos Comunitarios)
Team Leader: Wendy Cunningham                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 25, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT                           L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70170
                            PROJECT (Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
                            Comunitarios)
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/02/1999                                     Effective: 06/01/2000                01/16/2001
     Appraisal: 01/24/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/11/2000                                      Closing: 11/30/0200                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/DAPRE (ADMINISTRATIVE
                                           DEPARTMENT OF THE PRESIDENCY)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Andrés Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Evangeline Javier                              Ana-Maria Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Wendy Cunningham                               Vicente B. Paqueo
ICR Primary Author:             Juan Prawda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Colombia Community Works and Employment Project1, henceforth referred in this document as the
Project was intended to reduce poverty by providing temporary employment to poor workers, increasing
        2


the net labor income of their families, and preventing the deterioration of living standards in poor
communities caused by the economic crisis experienced by Colombia in 1998/99.

At the time of Project identification in October 1999, Colombia was experiencing a serious economic crisis
manifested by: (a) decreased economic growth (real decline of the gross domestic product [GDP] by 4.5
percent in 1999); (b) high unemployment rates (of about 20 percent in urban areas in September 1999); (c)
increased poverty and worsening income distribution (poverty rates of 57.5 percent in 1999, up from 52.7
percent in 1997; and a Gini coefficient of .59 in 1999 relative to .49 in 1997); (d) reduced in social
spending; (e) increased fiscal deficit (estimated at 6.3 percent of GDP in 1999); and (f) deterioration of the
balance of payments (current account deficit of about 6 percent of GDP in 1997).

To deal with this economic crisis and mitigate its social consequences, the Government of Colombia
(GOC), in accordance with its Standby Agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF)3 , adopted
a two-pronged strategy. First, the GOC implemented fiscal adjustments and economic reforms to achieve
stability and sustainable growth. Second, the GOC established a Social Safety Net (henceforth referred to
by its Spanish acronym RAS - Red de Apoyo Social) to cushion the impact of the economic recession on
the poor and vulnerable population and promote the establishment of peace in the country. The RAS
complemented the objectives and social policies established in the National Development Plan 1999-2002
and included three programs: (i) a community works program called Manos a la Obra (the Project) to
provide temporary employment to poor, unemployed and unskilled workers; (ii) Familias en Acción ­
Subsidios Condicionados, a conditional cash transfer program for poor families that would give cash
assistance to those who kept their children in school and provided them with basic preventive health care;
and (iii) Jóvenes en Acción, a training/apprenticeship program for young adults provided by private firms
that were selected through a competitive bidding process.

The RAS was designed by the National Planning Department (NPD) based on similar programs being
tested elsewhere in Latin America (detailed below) and implemented by the Administrative Department
under the Office of the President, through the Peace Investment Fund (DAPRE-FIP). The World Bank
(Bank) and the GOC financed the Project and Familias en Acción through two separate operations and
loans: the former through Loan 7017-CO and the latter through Loan 7050-CO. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) provided parallel financing to all three programs of the RAS through a single
loan 1280/OC-CO.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original Project objectives of providing temporary employment to poor unemployed and unskilled
workers remained unchanged throughout project implementation, although the original Loan Agreement
(LA) was amended twice during the life of the Project.4

3.3 Original Components:

The following three components were included in the Project description of Schedule 2 of the original LA:
(a) Subprojects; (b) Project Management; and (c) Subproject Evaluation.



                                                     - 2 -

Component A. The Subprojects were intended to create temporary employment through public works
schemes, in accordance with the provision set in the Project's Operational Manual (OM). Proposals for
sub-projects could be presented by municipal authorities, other local authorities or recognized local
non-governmental organization (NGOs), hereafter labeled as "municipalities" in this ICR.                  These
subprojects consisted, inter-alia, of minor construction, repair, expansion or remodeling works for schools,
health facilities, basic sanitation facilities, cultural facilities, small urban roads and bridges, culverts and
canals, environmental urban infrastructure and community centers. The Project (loan and counterpart
funding) financed: (a) the salaries of unskilled and unemployed workers (18 years-old or older who were
not studying) hired under small community works projects; and (b) a portion of the building materials
needed for construction, for a subset of municipalities. Sub-projects that did not include the financing of
building materials were estimated to cost between US$20,000 equivalent (COP$40 million) to US$100,000
equivalent (COP$200 million) per sub-project, while those receiving financing for building materials under
the loan cost up to US$150,000 equivalent (COP$300 million) per sub-project.

This component was targeted to the poorest unemployed workers living in zones where most of the
unemployment was concentrated. Poverty status was identified using the SISBEN (Sistema de Selección
de Beneficiarios), a proxy means-tested ranking system, which was developed in Colombia for the
identification of beneficiaries of social insurance and social assistance programs. Those ranked SISBEN
level 1 or 2 (of 6 levels) were eligible for the program, equivalent to the extreme poor (SISBEN 1) and the
poor (SISBEN 2).5

In terms of geographic targeting, since the increased unemployment rate was largely an urban phenomenon,
about 80 percent of the proceeds allocated to this component were aimed at the 78 largest municipalities of
the country with over 100,000 people; the remaining 20 percent were intended for use by urban
municipalities with fewer than 100,000 people. Eligible poor urban neighborhoods and/or communities
were identified through the ICV (Indice de Calidad de Vida/Quality of Life Index), which was developed
for the purpose of this Project. Using welfare indicators at the disaggregated local level (small geographic
units) that were derived from Census data, it ranked localities by their socio-economic level. The ranking
was then used to choose, evaluate and monitor the public works sub-projects in the poor communities.

The financing of this component was well-defined. This component was expected to finance up to 60
percent of the cost of the eligible subprojects of municipalities with less than 500,000 people and up to 20
percent in municipalities with more than 500,000 people. In addition, up to US$15 million (16.7 percent of
the total amount allocated to this component), could be used to finance up to 40 percent of the building
materials costs of subprojects in very poor municipalities. Municipalities were expected to provide their
own complementary financing of the subprojects' total estimated cost.              This component would give
economic assistance (wage contribution) of about US$90 per month for four hours work per day per
unskilled laborer working in approved subprojects, equivalent to the hourly minimum wage The maximum
                                                                                               .6


duration of each eligible approved sub-project was to be no greater than 5 months. Eligible sub-projects
were expected to employ a maximum of 50 unskilled and unemployed poor workers per shift for a
maximum of two shifts per day (100 persons per sub-project).

The implementation of this component included the following general activities: (i) program promotion
through national and departmental (state) media campaigns, workshops and other means of local and
community-level dissemination; (ii) project design preparation and presentation by interested municipalities
or other local authorities; (iii) project evaluation through FINDETER (Financiera de Desarrollo
Territorial), a public development bank providing financing to sub-national entities in charge of



                                                        - 3 -

subprojects evaluation and selection; (iv) project approval, legalization and issuing of contracts by
DAPRE-FIP; (v) project implementation through eligible non-government organizations (NGOs), financing
and payment of workers; (vi) project supervision through private engineering consulting firms in early 2003
a decision was made by GOC to conclude its agreement with private firms to supervise the execution of
public works and reassigned this responsibility to DAPRE-FIP; (vii) project completion; and (viii)
completion of documentation review and closing of the sub-projects file.

The following targets for the entire Empleo en Acción project (i.e. the sub-projects funded by Bank, IDB,
and GOC resources) were agreed with GOC at appraisal and reflected accordingly in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD):
(i)      250,000 beneficiaries, 50,000 of whom are women; and
(ii)     the execution and completion of 5,000 small public works (sub-projects).

Component B. Project management was intended to strengthen the capacity of the National Coordination
Unit (NCU) within the DAPRE ­ FIP.              The NCU was established to manage and coordinate the
implementation of the Project through the provision of specialized technical assistance and staff, the
acquisition of and use of appropriate office equipment, the establishment of management information
systems and communication services, training and reviewing, and fine tuning the OM. Agreement was
reached with GOC that the NCU would exclusively manage the Project in order to prevent the NCU from
administrating other FIP investments. The NCU was to be staffed with 12 qualified professionals at the
central level and six professionals at the regional level.

This component assumed that most aspects of the Project would be carried out through outsourcing
arrangements with other entities, inter-alia: (i) FINDETER, through its ten regional offices, to technically
assess sub-project proposals presented by the municipalities; (ii) NGOs and worker's cooperatives acting
as subprojects implementing entities (SIEs); (iii) eligible private engineering consulting firms as
supervisory agents; and (iv) a Management Information System (MIS) company for keeping track of
subprojects' implementation.      This component also assumed an output-based contract to be entered
between the DAPRE-FIP, each eligible SIE, and the municipality. The SIE was in turn to contract with
local contractors, who would select workers via a lottery.8 The Project design assumed a six percent
overhead in the SIEs for the financial management of the labor-related costs in approved sub-projects and
four percent for the building materials.

Component C. Subproject evaluation was intended to finance the design and implementation of a
Monitoring and Evaluation system to: (i) inform about project design implementation feasibility and
robustness at the beginning of the project implementation cycle; (ii) inform of needed adjustments to project
design and implementation strategies at mid-point of the Project's life; and (iii) assess the Project impact at
the closing of the loan, using the parameters identified in the logical framework appearing in Annex 1 of the
PAD. This component was to be carried out through qualified external parties selected via a competitive
process who would draw basic data from the Project's management information system, GOC's statistics,
household-level impact evaluation, primary data collection (through surveys, focus groups and interviews
with key informants including communities), Project audits and consultation with policymakers.

Table 1 indicates the costs of each Project Component estimated at appraisal and the source of financing
(Bank and national counterpart funds). The national counterpart funds were largely expected to be
allocated by the participating municipalities and complemented by the National Government. The table
also shows, for information purposes, the breakdown of IDB's parallel financing to this Project.




                                                      - 4 -

    Table 1. Costs and sources of financing at appraisal

                                Total indicative                                                             IDB
                                 costs GOC &                                      Government   % of Bank    Parallel
                                 Bank (US$M)       % of total Bank financing       Financing    financing Financing
            Components                (1)             (2)      (US$M) (3)         (US$M) (4)      (3)(1)   (US$M)

    Component A. Subprojects
     Labor                          150.00           77.7          75.00             75.00        50.00     60.00
     Building materials              30.00           15.60         15.00             15.00        50.00     40.00
    Component B. Project Mgt.         8.62           4.5           5.74              2.88        66.59    5.18
     Component C. Evaluation          0.79           0.4           0.69              0.10        87.34
     Unallocated                      2.57            1.3           2.57             0.00        100.00      4.82
    Total project cost              191.98           99.5           99.0             92.98        51.56
    Front-end-fee                     1.00            0.5           1.00             0.00        100.00
    Total financing required         192.98         100.00         100.00            92.98        51.82     110.00
    Source: Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20159-CO), page 8, April 8, 2000 The World Bank


3.4 Revised Components:

The LA underwent two amendments, two extensions of the closing date (to May 31, 2004, approved on
November 28, 2003; and to November 30, 2005 approved in late May 2004) and one partial cancellation of
the Loan:

The first amendment dated April 17, 2001, included modifications in the procedures for the selection of
consultants in Schedule 4 to the LA.

Partial cancellation of the Loan was requested by the Borrower on February 5, 2004. The GOC's decision
to discontinue the employment component of the Project as a response to improved economic conditions, a
consolidation of GOC's social safety net programs9 and the Project's results at that stage (as detailed in
section 4.2). The Bank concurred and cancelled US$66.98 million - 67 percent of the original total loan
amount ­on March 4, 2004; Schedule 1 of the LA was modified accordingly.

The second amendment, dated December 20, 2004, and countersigned by the Borrower on April 21, 2005,
affected approximately US$6 million (6 percent of the original loan amount), equivalent to the uncommitted
amount of the original loan. By 2004, economic growth was resuming. The GOC, the Bank and IDB
assumed that in a context of economic growth, a well-designed subsidized employment scheme for unskilled
and unemployed adults made more economic sense than did a public works scheme and would result in a
more pertinent and efficient program than the cumbersome works program offered by Empleo. This
rationale was in sync with the hypothesis that subsidizing the initial employment of new workers ­ likely to
be their training period ­ would give employers the incentive to hire those who would otherwise have been
considered unsuitable employees and give beneficiaries a more meaningful work experience likely leading
to workplace behavioral skills training and higher employability. Thus, the GOC requested an amendment
to use the balance of the Loan to test an alternative scheme for providing temporary employment to poor
workers, increasing the net labor income of their families, and preventing deterioration of living standards
in poor communities (i.e. the Project's PDO) via a Wage Subsidy Program Pilot (known in Colombia as
Programa de Apoyo Directo al Empleo or PADE). The Bank concurred and a second amendment to the
LA was prepared which (i) added a new disbursement category (stipends for trainees); and (ii) added the
Ministry of Social Protection (MSP), a newly created Ministry merging the former Ministries of Health and
Labor, as the agency responsible for the technical integrity of the PADE. This amendment did not modify



                                                        - 5 -

the original procurement, financial management and reporting arrangements, which remained under
DAPRE-FIP, nor did it modify the original project development objectives as approved by the Board on
May 5, 2000. In addition to the US$6 million from the Bank loan, PADE was to receive parallel financing
of US$6 million from the IDB and US$636,513 from the GOC.         10




The PADE was to be targeted to persons who were unskilled unemployed poor from urban areas belonging
to SISBEN I or II, who would spend six months of employment with a private firm that was likely to offer
the beneficiary on-the-job training.11 During the employment period, beneficiaries were to receive stipends
equal to the existing minimum wage, partially paid by the GOC and partially paid by the employer through
a cost sharing-formula. PADE intended to benefit about 60,000 people.

The technical group that designed the PADE estimated that the cost-sharing formula should be 42 percent
government funded and 58 percent employer funded.12 This analysis was overruled by a political decision
and the formula was initially set at 9 percent of the monthly stipend of each eligible trainee to be paid by
the Government and 91 percent by the participating firms. The cost sharing formula was modified in April
2005 to 18/82 and then again in June 2005 to 30/70.    13




Several new actors were added to the implementation team of the PADE. The MSP, with little experience
in implementing projects, was responsible for executing the PADE, while the fiduciary-related aspects,
mainly the financial aspects, were allocated to a fiduciary institution (Fidecafé S.A).            The Sistema
Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA- National Training Institute), through its regional offices, was to register
participating firms in 25 pre-selected large cities, register eligible beneficiaries, and follow up with their
training process.    To legalize this new implementation team in the GOC, an interagency agreement
(#1686/04) between MSP and the DAPRE-FIP was signed in September 2004 to transfer the uncommitted
resources. An OM for PADE (dated September 9, 2004) was also completed and an agreement between
MSP and SENA for the regional coordination of PADE was prepared by October 2004. The interagency
agreement, OM, and MSP-SENA agreement were reviewed and accepted by the Bank.

The PADE included the financing of the following broad activities: (i) dissemination; (ii) registration of
interested firms and potential beneficiaries; (iii) screening and selection of eligible beneficiaries and firms;
(iv) pairing of eligible beneficiaries with firms; (v) payment of stipends; (vi) monitoring and oversight; and
(viii) management and national and regional coordination. The evaluation of the pilot was to be funded by
the IDB.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the dimensions indicated in bold. To avoid
repetition, this section presents a summary of the main findings of this assessment, and presents the details
in Sections 4.2, 5.2, 5.3, 7.1 and 7.4 of the ICR.

Strategic relevance and approach.          The Project design was consistent with the Colombia Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report of November 18, 1999 (Report 17107-CO) which emphasized
the need to alleviate the impact of the economic crisis on the poor and identified the segments of the
population that had been hit hardest by the crisis. The proposed Project design was fully owned by its
respective stakeholders, had full political support from the GOC, and was prepared by a qualified technical
team.




                                                       - 6 -

Client orientation. During the design stage, the Bank preparation team demonstrated sensitivity and
commitment to results that were in GOC's best interest and consistent with the government social safety net
policies and conceptual strategies existing at that moment to address the economic crisis. The policy
dialogue that took place to accommodate GOC's request for Bank support in the implementation of their
social safety net strategy resulted in two separate operations ­ the Empleo and Familias projects.

Technical, financial and economic aspects.          The preparation process benefited from at least three
analytical studies (poverty assessment update, employment/unemployment review, and social sector review)
that were done under the broader umbrella of the Social Assessment carried out as part of the Standby
Agreement with the IMF. The lending phase also profited from a cost-effectiveness analysis, the main
findings appear in Section E of the PAD.

Given GOC's lack of experience in designing and implementing social safety net projects, relevant lessons
from other international labor-intensive public works program were included in the configuration of the
RAS package. Accordingly, a study tour was carried out to observe the Argentina Trabajar project.

Despite the above-mentioned design-related merits displayed by the Bank lending team, there were several
important preparation shortcomings. First, the Bank team was not fully successful in balancing the
simplicity and transparency of the subproject selection and approval mechanisms. As detailed in Chapters
5 and Section 7.5, transparency was ensured at the cost of simplicity, which caused delays in Project
implementation.14 Second, some of the indicators in the PAD Annex could not be measured during the life
of the Project (see indicators with an entry of "not available" in Annex 1 of the ICR).

During the preparation of the PADE, the Bank and IDB teams questioned the viability of such a scheme
based on repeated failed experiments with this program in other Latin American countries. In response, the
GOC stressed that this was a pilot that was intended to test the hypothesis and proposed to (i) carefully
calculate the cost-sharing formula such that it was equated to cost-decisions made by employers, (ii) begin
work on a decree to protect program participants from losing their health insurance subsidy upon benefiting
from the program (the decree was passed in January 2006), and (iii) eventually introduce different
cost-sharing formulas to determine the minimum level of subsidy that would return the desired results. In
terms of changing the executing agency, the GOC proposed hiring into the MSP the staff who had directed
the Empleo project, thus ensuring continuity on the project.

Institutional aspects, implementation and monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Given the need to
respond quickly to the economic crisis, the Bank team proceeded with a very fast preparation pace. The
total preparation time (from identification to appraisal) took 4 months (October 1999 to the end of January
2000). Some conditions for effectiveness of the LA indicate that the Project was not ready to be executed
at the time of Board presentation, specifically: (i) the Operational Manual (OM) at the time of negotiations
needed further work to guide the selection, approval and oversight of subproject under Component A; (ii)
the NCU, the essential element for the implementation of Component B, was not in place in the
DAPRE-FIP and some key senior level staff, including its general coordinator, had not yet been selected;
and (iii) the Project's financial and implementation management information systems were not developed.
The rush to prepare the operation and the resulting lack of implementation readiness and institutional
capacity assessments (further detailed in Section 7.1) hindered a speedy implementation pace.

In addition, a systematic assessment of the municipal capacity to respond in a timely manner to the
presentation of eligible public works sub-projects, especially the large municipalities changing elected
authorities, was not carried out.      Nor was there an assessment of the capacity of of the NGOs in



                                                      - 7 -

administering public funds in the execution of these investments.

Finally, as shown in Annex 1 of the PAD, no baseline data was collected before Board approval. The
baseline data gathered by the impact evaluation study mentioned in Component C in Section 4.2 of the ICR
was collected in 2002, when the Project was already under implementation, leading to difficulties in the
impact evaluation component, detailed below.

Fiduciary aspects. Financial management, procurement and environmental assessment were carried out
during the preparation phase. Although a procurement plan was agreed for the selection of consultants and
acquisition of building materials, the first-year procurement plan was not in place at the time of Board
approval.

Poverty, gender and social development assessments. A social assessment, including consultation with
representatives of women's groups, indigenous people, Afro-Colombian population, and internally
displaced people, was undertaken during the preparation cycle. The consultations focused on finding
feasible and effective ways for these sub-populations to access Project benefits.

Risk assessment and management. A rather long list of risks concerning the achievement of the intended
developmental objectives, as well as the effective execution of the Project's components, was identified
during the preparation phase and mitigation measures agreed with the Borrower. Two key risks that
emerged during implementation ­ municipalities, especially the large ones, not participating in a timely
fashion at the onset of project implementation, and NGOs having difficulties in administering public funds
­ was not identified ex ante.

In view of the above complex sub-project selection and approval mechanism, and the trade-off of
implementation readiness in an effort to quickly respond to the emergency situations, caused significant
implementation delays in what was to be an emergency assistance program. Thus, the ICR ranks the
Quality at Entry of Empleo as unsatisfactory.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of this ICR are largely based on the findings of: (i) the performance and impact
evaluation study carried out by three consulting firms selected through a competitive bidding process
(Econometría Consultores- Sistemas Especializados de Información S.A and the Institute of Fiscal
Studies); (ii) the last two Implementation Status Reports (ISRs, sequence 11 and 12) entered into the
Project's files in 2005; and (iii) the fact finding field visit to Colombia on March 20 ­ 24, 2006.

The performance and impact evaluation study included a desk analysis on a random sample of 1,246
sub-projects (33 percent of the universe of completed subprojects), field visits to 550 sub-projects (14.7
percent of the universe) in 19 Departments and 82 municipalities and interviews with key actors of project
implementation including the NCU, implementing and supervising entities. From the 1,246 sub-projects
included in the desk analysis, 747 (60 percent) were from large municipalities and the other 499 from small
municipalities. It is a very rich analysis, particularly in terms of monitoring the Project's performance.
The impact evaluation is not as robust, though, due to the complications in the timing of the launching of
the project and the beneficiary selection process. In particular, the cost benefit analysis and the long-term



                                                        - 8 -

impact on wage and employment should be taken as suggestive, rather than definitive, and merit further
analysis (see Section 4.2 for details).

As detailed further in the ICR, a contextual factor affected the Project's potential impact: the Project, as
prepared, was to have a social nature (creating temporary employment for the poor,                unemployed
population), but throughout the implementation cycle, Empleo was treated more as a public works
program. For example, the assessment and legalization of sub-projects as well as their management and
supervision ended up focusing more on the appropriateness of the building materials than on the pertinence
of the employment and greater social aspects.

Although the Project had positive impacts on the income of beneficiaries and the public infrastructure in
poor communities (while the GOC was cutting social spending in other areas), it fell short of its appraised
goals. In particular:

·        While beneficiaries were working, their average net earnings were 38 percent higher than that of
the control group, relative to the 58 percent target set at appraisal. This is about US$18.55 equivalent
(COP$39,889) per month higher than among the relevant comparator group. The impact evaluation
suggests positive wage impacts of program participation nine months after program participation ends, due
to the labor market connections established through participation in the Project.

·        Empleo fared particularly well in benefiting the poor. All workers employed under the financed
sub-projects belonged to the two lower income groups (SISBEN I and II), which covers the indigent and
poor, thus matching the target set at appraisal. The total number of beneficiaries represents about 7.4
percent of the universe of adults categorized as SISBEN I and II.

·        The goals set in the PAD regarding "prevention of the deterioration of standards of living in
poor communities," via public works, were partially met. Even though the last ISR (sequence number 12)
does not include information concerning the achievement of the third project development indicator ( the
percentage of poor families' utilization of infrastructure built, expanded or rehabilitated under Component
A of Empleo), the evaluation study provides some information (section 3.3.2 of Volume I): (i) 95 percent of
the sample rated "accessibility to the public works completed under Component A" as good or acceptable;
(ii) 83 percent of the sample graded "operation of the completed subprojects" as high; and (iii) around 83
percent of the subprojects were considered to be in use nine months after their completion.

These achievements were accomplished with one fourth of the original loan during three years of effective
implementation (when the economy was rebounding, but unemployment rates were stuck at a high level).

Despite these positive evaluations, the Project did not fully meet its expected outcomes, as described in the
PAD, and since a MU rating is still not possible (though this rating is reflected in the ISRs), the projects
achievement of its DO is rated unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component A. The Component benefited fewer workers than was initially predicted. Including all the
sources of Empleo financing, about 130,000 jobs positions were created by this component, but labor
turnover resulted in a higher number of beneficiaries, approximately 228,000 total beneficiaries, a ratio of
1.75 workers per available job. This achievement felt short of the 250,000 beneficiaries set at appraisal
(91.2 percent). Of the individuals benefiting from the project, 78,272 (76,858 under Component A and
1,414 under the PADE) were Bank financed, while the remaining were IDB and GOC financed. The


                                                      - 9 -

shortfall in the number of beneficiaries was primarily due to the slow rate of implementation of the Project
(described in detail below) and the cancellation/reallocation of two-thirds of the original Loan amount. An
average of 55 people were employed per sub-projects in large municipalities and 51 in smaller
municipalities, compared to a target of 100.

About 75,000 (33 percent) of the beneficiaries were women, relative to the 50,000 target set at appraisal;
reflecting the female share of the overall labor force. The higher than expected share of female participants
in the Project is not surprising since, as the program evaluation shows, most of the Project beneficiaries
were people who were out-of-the labor force, which tends to be disproportionately female. Also, women
who are often homemakers tend to prefer employment that is part-time, temporary, and close to home,
which allows them to engage in market activities with low cost to their home responsibilities.

The evaluation results suggest that the Project did not crowd out private sector jobs, as originally feared.
Beneficiaries worked an average of 8.6 hours more per week than did the control group. If we were to
correct for the bias in the control group (those who were selected into the treatment but found work on their
own and thus became a part of the control group), the differential would likely be higher, suggesting that
program beneficiaries would have had much fewer work hours if they had relied only on the private sector.
Larger municipalities registered an average of 10.6 hours per week while smaller municipalities registered
6.3 hours weekly.15

In addition to women, young people in the 18 to 25 year-cohort and the unskilled disproportionately
benefited from the Project. About 98.7 percent of beneficiaries were unskilled workers. Most of the
beneficiaries were out-of-the labor force when they were hired rather than unemployed, but during
recessionary periods, it is often difficult to distinguish between discouraged workers (individuals who are
out of the labor force since they do not think there is any point in job search during periods of economic
stagnation) and those who are unemployed (those searching for jobs).

A total of 3,724 subprojects were completed during the life of the Project, relative to the 5,000 that were
expected at appraisal (74.5 percent of the original target). Thirty percent of the completed subprojects
(1,115 sub-projects) were financed by the Bank; the remaining completed subprojects were financed by the
IDB and municipal counterpart funding. The subprojects were in 652 municipalities (representing about
60 percent of the total number of municipalities in the country).

While three quarters of the subprojects were completed with only one quarter of the loan amount, the goals
may have been surpassed if two aspects of the implementation process had been improved (Table 2). First,
the process for approving subprojects was slow. While 79 percent of the total number of sub-projects
financed under this Component were prepared by the municipalities and submitted to FINDETER for
evaluation in 2001 and 81.1 percent of the total number of sub-projects had been assessed by FINDETER
at the end of 2001, it would take another 12.5 months for DAPRE-FIP to legalize these sub-projects, issue
the contract and authorize the first disbursement to the SIEs. These issues are further explained in section
7.5 of this ICR

Second, about one of every six subprojects that was positively assessed by FINDETER was eventually
cancelled by DAPRE-FIP (15.8 percent), which became particularly problematic in 2003 (half of approved
projects were cancelled), the last year municipalities were allowed to present sub-projects.             The
cancellation of approved sub-projects was mainly due to: (i) the difficulties encountered by many NGOs in
acquiring an insurance policy or bond (poliza) as required by the Colombian laws regulating the use of
public funds; (ii) the untimely issuing of contracts after the end of a fiscal year making it impossible for



                                                      - 10 -

municipalities to tap approved budgetary resources to be used as counterpart funding; (iii) the expiration of
valid contracts; and (iv) the untimely disbursement of approved funds forcing some municipalities to call
off the intended public works and/or complete it with their own resources.

                 Table 2. Implementation pace of the screening process of sub-projects
                                           submitted by municipalities

                                 Technically
                                  approved
                                  subprojects
                                 submitted to        Accumulated        Approved sub-
                                DAPRE-FIP for        percentage of     projects that were    Percentage of
                                 legalization         technically         eventually        subprojects that
                                   purposes            approved            cancelled         were cancelled
                                     (1)             sub-projects             (2)         (2)(1)
              Year
              2000                    101                 2.3                   6         5.9
              2001                   3,486               81.1                 476         13.7
              2002                    490                92.2                  46         9.4
              2003                    347                100.0                172         49.6
              Total                  4,424               100.0                700         15.8
         Sub-projects that were implemented: 4,424 ­ 700 = 3,724


About 37 percent of the total amount of resources allocated to this Component went to large municipalities
and 63 percent to smaller municipalities, which substantially differs from the original goal that 80 percent
of the proceeds of this Component would be allocated to the 78 largest municipalities. The expenditures
reflect the regional distribution of the sub-projects with 37 percent of the completed works (1,381
sub-projects) located in large priority municipalities and the remaining 63 percent (2,340 subprojects)
carried out by 581 non-priority (smaller) municipalities.

There are four explanations for the shift away from the priority municipalities. First, large municipalities
prefer investing in public works with estimated costs significantly larger than the sub-project ceiling
(US$150,000) allotted under Component A. Second, large municipalities tend to favor the utilization of
heavy equipment and machinery in the carrying out of their public works, rather than using labor intensive
processes. While this is permitted by the Project, the use of heavy equipment and machinery would require
a more skilled labor force that would not correspond to the target population of Empleo. Third, large
municipalities, in particular, encountered problems in aligning Law 80 ­ regulating public contracting of
goods and services ­ with the rules imposed by the Loan. Fourth, a need to align the sub-projects to the
municipal development plans, especially among municipalities with newly elected authorities, was a greater
problem among large municipalities.

Only 76 percent of completed public works under this component were of acceptable quality, short of the
100 percent target set at appraisal. The rate of full completion of approved subprojects was 69 percent,
short of the 100 percent target set at appraisal. About 99 percent of the projects were located in poor areas
belonging to the lowest two income quintiles according to the ICV index, thus achieving the appraised
target. About 49 percent of the sub-projects that were completed were public urban transportation works
such as street pavement, pedestrian walkways and bridges; 17 percent were public services, including
sewerage, drainage pipes, telephone and electrical lines, and another 16 percent included social



                                                    - 11 -

infrastructure in the health, education, recreation and social welfare sectors.

The efficiency of the employment program, measured as the ratio of the value of wages received by
unskilled workers divided by the total government cost of the project of about 31.1 percent fell short of the
appraised target of 75 percent. The average length to execute and complete approved sub-projects was
about 3.9 months, while the average period of employment of a beneficiary was 2.84 months. The
difference is mainly explained by the turnover of workers per available job.

There are no data on two intermediate output indicators also included in Annex 1 of the PAD: (i) the
percentage of users of public works funded by the Project who are poor; and (ii) labor intensity of projects.
The team learned during supervision that while these goals were conceptually important results of the
project, they were difficult to measure in practice, as flagged in Section 3.5 of the ICR.

Even though the original design of Empleo assumed the financing of a portion of building materials for
sub-projects of "very poor" municipalities, during the implementation phase, Empleo ended up financing
building materials in almost all participating municipalities. As shown in the last table of Annex 2 of the
ICR, and considering the counterpart funding, about 50 percent of the total cost of eligible sub-projects
was used for the acquisition of building materials and 50 percent for unskilled labor. This contrasts with
the original project design allocating 83.4 percent to labor and 16.6 percent for building materials (see last
table of Annex 2). As explained elsewhere in the ICR, municipalities, especially the small ones, preferred
to spend in building materials rather than in unskilled labor. Empleo became de-facto a public works
operation, thus leading to under-achievement of the Project's original objectives.

Beneficiaries employed under this component received about US$90 equivalent (at 2001 prices) per month
while working in the approved sub-projects.         The program intentionally paid less than the monthly
minimum wage (US$180 equivalent) in order to encourage self-targeting. Since program participants only
worked half the normal work hours monthly, their hourly wage was the same as that of the minimum wage,
when denominated by hour. In spite of this, the self-targeting mechanism imbedded in the Empleo design ­
a monthly salary below the minimum wage ­ attracted a significant number of people who were out of the
labor force, many of whom remained in the same condition nine months after completion of the approved
sub-project. This may have been due to the part-time nature of the Project, which opened labor market
opportunities to those who were otherwise unable or unwilling to work full time.

The foreseen Empleo's social auditing and control to be carried out by the communities (Veduria
comunitaria) fell short of the expectations set for at appraisal. Lack of appropriate legal and institutional
mechanisms impeded this achievement.

Empleo had significant externalities measured nine months after beneficiaries finished working in the
subprojects. Household consumption - especially of food and household cleaning items - increased by
about 14.4 percent more among Project beneficiaries than among a control group (equivalent to
COP$80,057/month, or US$37.24). While this is significant, it is short of the 40 percent set as a target at
appraisal. Beneficiary women reported less economic dependency and greater self-esteem. No visible
Empleo impact was observed on health status or access to education of the beneficiaries' families or on
home improvements, public service upgrades, or reduction of household over-crowding.

The ICR team ranks this Empleo Component (up to the moment prior to the second amendment) as
(moderately) unsatisfactory because: (i) the coverage was lower than expected, although the targeting more
than exceeded expectations, (ii) fewer than expected subprojects were implemented due to implementation
problems that were not dealt with in a timely manner, (iii) the geographic targeting was moderate such that


                                                     - 12 -

most resources were spent in non-priority municipalities, but they were spent in poor communities in those
small muncipalities, (iv) one-fourth of completed subprojects were not of acceptable quality, (v) only 50
percent of the costs were destined for paying unskilled workers in contrast to the 83.3 percent originally
planned, and (vi) two of the performance indicators were not measured.

PADE. This Component was approved at the time of the second amendment and represented a mere 6
percent of the original contracted amount, marginal with respect to the bulk of the original loan represented
by Component A. The ICR assigns a (moderately) unsatisfactory rating to the implementation of this new
project component:

The same issues that were detected for the original loan (explained in sections 3.5 and 7.1 of the ICR) also
affected the second amendment, namely, lack of appropriate implementation readiness. Notwithstanding
that the contracts and amendments were signed by December 2004 and the NCU was established in
January 2005 in the MSP to coordinate the execution of the PADE, the GOC did not countersign the
amendment until April 2005, due to internal processes.           Once the amendment was prepared, the
implementation proceeded slowly as: (i) the PADE scheme was not appropriately disseminated; (ii) local
offices did not have the appropriate technology to respond to firms that were willing to participate; and (iii)
the implementation team was not adequately trained.

Once the above-mentioned issues started being addressed through more effective dissemination campaigns,
program take-up was still slow. A telephone interview with potential employer beneficiaries and firms that
had participated in only part of the process discovered that: (a) many employers were not interested in
participating since they considered the cost-sharing formula insufficient; (b) many employers who were
interested in the program did not sign up because the skill level of eligible workers was low thus requiring
significant training costs which they were not willing to incur; (c) many employers who signed up did not
launch the program in their firms since they were not in need of new workers at that time; and (d) some
firms found six months of benefits as too short a time to compensate for the effort invested in hiring, and
likely training, unskilled workers. Some of these factors could have been detected and addressed if, during
the process leading to the second amendment in 2004, effective demand would have been estimated via a
quick assessment with potential interested firms. The design of PADE did not involve discussion with the
most relevant stakeholders ­firm owners.

As a consequence, the results of the pilot were unsatisfactory. Only 1,414 unskilled workers from 18 cities
received a stipend under PADE, far short of the 60,000 set as an initial target (2.4 percent). About 40
percent of beneficiaries were from the lowest SISBEN category (indigent poor) while 60 percent belonged
to the second SISBEN category. About 30 percent were women. On average, benefits were granted for 4
months. Of 1,636 firms that registered for the program, only 214 provided temporary employment under
the PADE framework. Of those 214 firms, 26 percent were micro (less than 10 workers), 36 percent were
small (from 11 to 50 workers), 24 percent were medium (from 51 to 200 workers) and 14 percent were
large (over 201 workers), suggesting little appeal of the PADE to large firms.

Once the program was up and running, on-site visits to potential and participating firms confirmed
conclusions from the telephone interviews and revealed additional design factors that limited the success of
PADE. The cost-sharing formula finally adopted by GOC in June 2005 ­ 30 percent of the monthly
stipend paid by the Government and 70 percent by the participating firm ­ did not provide sufficient
incentive for greater firms participation. The requirement that firms be up to date with their fiscal and legal
social welfare obligations deterred many micro and small potential firms from registering, since they tended
to evade more often and were unwilling to enter the system, and pay all relevant taxes, in order to
participate in the program. The requirement to use only SISBEN I and II (unskilled) workers discouraged


                                                    - 13 -

medium and large size firms, with their greater skills needs, from participating. The six month period
discouraged those firms with a longer employment horizon or those for whom training was a longer period.
Finally, MSP's lack of previous experience in executing multilateral-financed investments likely hindered a
more timely and effective implementation and on-site supervision.

Component B. The Project Management component is rated a (moderately) unsatisfactory due to several
factors.

First, the NCU was unable to manage the project in a timely manner. The agreement reached with GOC at
the design stage regarding the NCU's only role being to manage the Project, was not implemented. All the
legal, financial, procurement and other Project-related fiduciary activities were carried out within the
general DAPRE-FIP, rather than through a separate NCU. This resulted in a cumbersome, complex and
centralized management arrangement which significantly delayed project activities, as DAPRE-FIP was
also responsible for other competing non-project related responsibilities. Perhaps short-term emergency
                                                                            16


projects like Empleo warrant a parallel Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of its own, being responsible for
all the projects-related fiduciary aspects (financial, procurement and legal).

Second, the use of NGOs slowed down project implementation and had limited effect on the objectives of
this Component. There were three key reasons that the project preparation teams chose to use NGOs as
executing entities for the Empleo. First, the successful use of NGOs during the massive rebuilding process
that took place in the FOREC program (Fondo de Reconstrucción del Eje Cafetero) after the 1998
earthquake (under a US$1.6 billion emergency program and labeled as best practice by the Bank),
suggested that NGOs could also be effective in executing the Empleo program. The NGOs selected for
FOREC displayed effective and timely compliance with their assigned tasks, ensuring accountability and
transparency in the use of public funds allocated under this emergency contingency. Second, NGOs were
incorporated to allow the GOC to pay workers below the minimum wage, something that the municipalities
were forbidden to do by the Colombian Constitution. Third, there was a perceived mistrust concerning a
possible lack of transparency if the resources were to be allocated directly to the municipalities.

The success of FOREC was not replicated in Empleo since many of the NGOs that were selected differed
from those that participated in FOREC in terms of: (a) no previous experience in handling public funds
under the conditions imposed by the Loan and the Colombian regulations, in particular the processes
concerning the issuing of an insurance policy or bond (póliza) for the NGO; (b) inadequately staffed with
trained personnel; and (c) high turnover of trained personnel. In addition, Colombian laws regulating the
acquisition of goods and services with public funds ­ a cumbersome process ­ were relaxed under FOREC,
but not under Empleo.

A total of about 1,200 NGOs were initially identified by the Colombian Confederation of NGOs
(Confederación Colombiana de Organizaciones No Gubernamentales ­ CCONG) as eligible participants
in Empleo, of which approximately 400 were selected as SIEs by the municipalities. In the selection
process, the original list provided by CCONG was modified to include some NGOs which did not fully
satisfy the eligibility criteria, a situation discovered during the implementation process. Of the total
participating NGOs, about 12 percent performed below standards, despite the training and other support
provided by the Project. On average, each NGO managed about 9 sub-projects, with a wide distribution
ranging from a few ones per NGO to about 100 per NGO.

The constant adjustments made to the OM during the life of the Project were necessary due to management
delay issues (at both the central and NGOs level) and the complexities inherent in the original project



                                                      - 14 -

design (especially those derived from the acquisition of building materials). For example, while the on-line
management information system became available and functional in November 2000, many NGO's found it
difficult to access until appropriate training was provided.

The lengthy upstream and downstream management processes described in section 7.5 of the ICR resulted,
in some occasions, in potential beneficiaries finding employment elsewhere by the time the contract was
issued by DAPRE-FIP. This suggested that the Empleo scheme was not flexible enough to respond in
emergency situations, but it may be more appropriate as a means for dealing with long-term cyclical
unemployment. It also had serious implications for the impact evaluation since the self-selection out of the
sample by potential beneficiaries biased the treatment group.

Component C. A comprehensive impact evaluation study of the sub-projects was undertaken according to
terms of reference agreed with the Bank. This evaluation study includes valuable findings with respect to
the on-the-ground Empleo process, the characterization of the sub-projects financed under Component A,
the targeting of Empleo, relevant qualitative information and some strategic vision derived from this
experience. The findings of this impact evaluation study appeared in a seven volume document cited in the
bibliography in Annex 7 of the ICR.

Notwithstanding the above merits of the impact evaluation study, two primary issues arose that affected the
quality of the output of this Component. First, the baseline information data were collected too late to
allow for a clean experimental design. The baseline data were collected in December 2002 and December
2003, when the Project was already under implementation. The first follow-up data collection was in
March 2003 and February 2004 to measure the "short-term impacts". A second follow-up data collection
was in June and September 2004, after the sub-projects were completed, to measure the "long-term
impacts." As further explained in Annex 3 of the ICR, due to the low takes-up rates from potential
participants and the fact that local authorities directly intervened in selecting program beneficiaries ­ rather
than a random selection by lottery, as was originally planned ­ the original experimental design of Empleo
was lost. As a result, more complicated and less reliable econometric techniques were employed in an
attempt to correct for the data and experiment shortcomings, which brings into question the robustness of
the impact evaluation findings.17

Second, the separate cost-benefit analysis was not robust. At the closing of this project, the DNP was still
working with the consulting firm to identify and correct these shortcomings so that the evaluation could be
of use for future policymaking.

In terms of the PADE, the IDB agreed to fund the impact evaluation and hired Fedesarrollo, a private
research institution. With the poor results of the study, the IDB chose to forego an impact evaluation in
favor of a performance evaluation. The following four hypothesis are being tested in the forthcoming study
as possible causes: (i) a design problem; (ii) an implementation problem; (iii) change of rules during the
implementation (lthe cost-sharing formula, the size of the pilot, etc.); and (iv) the response by firms of
different sizes to the eligibility criteria and other requirements set for in the PADE scheme. Findings of this
study are expected by October 2006.

For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR rates the implementation of Component C as (moderately)
satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

See Annex 3.


                                                        - 15 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project seems to have made five institutional development contributions. First, it developed: (i) rules
and guidelines governing public works employment-generation and cash transfer programs; and (ii) a
methodology for geographic targeting (ICV) that serves as an instrument for choosing, evaluating and
monitoring public works projects for poor communities.

Second, some participating municipalities have adopted elements of the above methodology and procedures
to execute their own municipal community-related investments.

Third, about 350 of the 400 participating NGOs acquired the capacity to manage public funds under the
existing Colombian laws.

Fourth, the GOC is implementing the pilot Program for Socio-Labor Reinsertion (Programa de
Reconversión Socio-Laboral), a hybrid of Empleo and Jóvenes, (further detailed in Chapter 6 of the ICR).
This program offers adults aged 30 to 60 years and belonging to SISBEN I and II, four days of
employment per week in public works (along the Empleo scheme) and two days per week of training to
increase their employability (a la Jóvenees). Beneficiaries receive about US$3.50 per day (contingent on
their attendance) during 25 days per months for a total of six months. This project was initially conceived
and piloted in 2003 in four municipalities affected by the conflict and violence in the Magdalena Medio
region and is currently is operating in eight new municipalities benefiting about 3,000 people. One of the
benefits already observed is the building of a new social fabric and the nurturing of values to lessen the
negative and harmful effects of violence and drugs. This program is fully financed by GOC, which
allocated US$2.5 million in 2005 and US$5 million in 2006.

Fith, another social safety net intervention recently launched by the GOC based on some elements of
Empleo, Familias and Jóvenes, labeled Emergency Program for the Displaced Population (Programa de
Emergencia para Desplazados), is targeted to refugees and/or displaced population emigrating from the
zones of violence.

For all of the above reasons, the ICR mission is of the view that the institutional development impact of the
Project was modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Paradoxically, the improvement of the Colombian economy at the same time that the Project was just being
executed may have negatively impacted the implementation and outcome of this Project. As the economy
improved, the political and social pressure for the Government to create temporary jobs diminished, even
though unemployment rates recovered very slowly and, by 2006, were still not back to their pre-crisis
levels.   Additionally, as employment opportunities slowly resumed, there was less urgency for a
government program that provides temporary and part-time work. As a consequence, in mid-2003 the
GOC decided to discontinue the Empleo Project after December 31, 2003 and therefore suspend the review
and selection of new sub-project proposals under Component A. In the second semester of 2004, GOC


                                                     - 16 -

requested the cancellation of 67 percent of the original contracted loan.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Seven factors that were under the control of the GOC negatively affected project implementation.

First, the GOC decided to include the financing of building materials in the project design, although the
successful first phase of Argentina's Trabajar project ­ the model upon which Empleo was based ­ did
not. A replica of the Argentina model was not possible in Colombia due to Law 617, which limited the
ability of municipalities to acquire building materials for the envisaged sub-projects. Therefore, a decision
was made during preparation to partly finance building costs under Component A, which increased the
complexity of project execution and significantly delayed implementation. This complexity was due to: (i)
the need to include cost calculations of building materials in the design of sub-projects submitted to the
FINDETER; (ii) the need for FINDETER to review building material costs in addition to labor costs; (iii)
the need for NGOs to follow procedures established in the LA and Colombian regulation for the acquisition
of building materials; (iv) the added responsibility of supervising materials, as well as labor, as part of
sub-project execution; and (v) the change of focus of the Project from a means to alleviate the social
impacts of the crisis to one in which municipalities could improve their infrastructure.

Second, an internal operational disconnect was created by assigning the management of the Project to a
governmental unit (DAPRE-FIP) different from the one that conceptualized and technically designed it.
While this worked well for the Familias en Acción project, giving it the political clout to grow and become
entrenched, it worked less well for the Empleo project, which had less of a social nature, and more of an
infrastructure orientation, in its early life. While the MSP designed and implemented PADE, the low
implementation capacity of the MSP hindered the rapid implementation of the new program.

Third, the financial, procurement, and legal processes were slower than anticipated since these tasks were
the responsibility of DAPRE-FIP, which also had many other responsibilities not related to the Project.
The lengthy upstream and downstream processing reduced the agility and timeliness of the Project.

Fourth, an untimely and unfocussed communication and dissemination strategy from the NCU to
municipalities at the onset of Empleo project launching, and then from the MSP to potential employers at
the launching of the PADE scheme, negatively affected the pace of implementation.

Fifth, the cost sharing formula adopted by GOC to finance and subsidize the stipends under the PADE was
not substantial enough to induce firms to participate.

Sixth, the team that conceptualized, designed, and championed the PADE resigned from Government before
the program was launched, which created delays as the new team learned the program and began to oversee
its implementation.

Seventh, the failure to identify the stakeholders and tailor the PADE dissemination strategy, incentives, and
processes to those firms, resulted in an inefficient and ineffective program.         Instead, this task was
undertaken once the program was being implemented.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Six key factors under the implementing agencies' control slowed down the execution pace or affected the
quality of the public works undertaken.



                                                    - 17 -

First, implementation delays were caused in many cases by the change of elected municipal authorities at
the initiation of the Empleo program. These delays were partially caused by the need of the new authorities
to prepare their own Municipal Development Plans and to familiarize themselves with commitments that
had been made by the departing municipal administration, like, inter-alia, the implementation of approved
sub-projects.

Second, lack of appropriate and timely training to municipalities on how to prepare feasible and good
quality proposals resulted in the rejection of 55 percent of the proposals on technical grounds (5,376 out
9,800 received). Many of these rejected proposals were too ambitious and included unrealistic targets and
costs.

Third, NGOs and municipalities had difficulties understanding and implementing Law 80, concerning the
use of public funds for the acquisition of goods and services. In addition, some NGOs were not familiar
with the loan and public fund regulations (including payment of minimum wages, labor contractual and
social security obligations by the employer) but they did not receive appropriate training or support to
understand and abide by these regulations. Many of these NGOs lacked the appropriate skill-mixed staff
required by Empleo, in particular the use of e-government as a means to enter expenditure documentation.

Fourth, beneficiaries dropped out of the Empleo scheme as a result of delays in contracting. The process
for registering as a worker and submission of sub-project proposals occurred nearly simultaneously, but
given the long approval process, many who had submitted their names for the lottery found employment in
the meantime. This in turn, distorted the transparency of the selection process as some municipalities
stopped using the lottery system for selection purposes, instead preferring to select beneficiaries through a
patronage process. And it affected the quality of the impact evaluation as the self-selection introduced bias
to the control group.

Fifth, the decision to implement the PADE in the MSP with financial and disbursement tasks managed by a
private sector Fiduciary firm and the DAPRE-FIP responsible for PADE's monitoring slowed down the
program. While the MSP attempted to smooth the transition of the program management by retaining the
project manager who had managed the Empleo, the nature of the pilot was significantly different that there
was little knowledge to carry over between programs. The implementation unit was slow to build its
permanent staff due to constant delays in project implementation and turnover of the potential management
team.

Sixth, the PADE implementation team was slow to identify the causes of the low participation of firms in
the project. While the team focused on internal constraints, namely the technological capacity and
knowledge and the marketing firm, it did not have the understanding of the labor market to identify
demand-side constraints. In the end, the Bank and IDB teams identified the possible barriers, recommended
means to test the hypotheses, and suggested responses.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$192.98 million equivalent, of which US$100
million were from the Bank loan (51.8 percent), and the rest, US$92.98 million equivalent (48.2 percent),
from counterpart funds (US$2.98 million from the Federal Government and US$90 million from the
participating municipalities). The Project received an additional US$110 million from IDB as parallel
financing (not reported in this ICR). At the closing date, the total project cost was estimated at US$182.95
million (94.80 percent of the appraised amount), of which US$26.4 million were from the Bank loan (14



                                                   - 18 -

percent of the total executed cost) and US$156.55 million from counterpart funds (Federal Government and
municipalities) (86 percent), indicating that the largest financial burden of this project fell on counterpart
funding.

The low expenditures of Bank resources and overspending of the counterpart contribution set at appraisal
by 168 percent (shown in Annex 2) were due to a different composition of expenditures than envisioned at
appraisal. The expenditures on building materials by the participating municipalities were five times that
estimated at appraisal, reflecting the hypothesis that the project orientation shifted away from temporary
employment (which the Bank was funding) toward a public works program (largely funded by counterpart
resource) during the implementation phase.

Furthermore, expenditures for the PADE were much lower than expected. As shown in table 3, the
category of expenditure 5 (stipends for trainees, included in Schedule I to the LA at the time of the second
amendment to finance the PADE) disbursed only US$387,586 of the loan (6.46 percent of the total amount
allocated for this purpose).

For the reasons explained in section 3.4, US$66.98 million (67 percent of the original amount contracted)
of the Bank's original loan amount was cancelled. As shown in cost table 3 and in the last table of Annex
2, total Loan disbursements, including the front end-fee, were about US$26.4 million (26.4 percent of the
original contracted amount and 80 percent of the revised amount at the time of the partial cancellation and
second amendment). At the closing of the operation, the Special Account registered an undisbursed amount
of US$2.73 million. The Borrower requested cancellation of the remaining undisbursed and uncommitted
Loan amount of about US$3.9 million.




                                                    - 19 -

                         Table 3. Loan overview by category of expenditure at different time
                                                  periods
                                      of the implementation cycle


         Category                        Allocated at
                           Original       the time of  Disbursed at                Percentage of Percentage of
                          allocated in    the second   the closing of Percentage of    (3) with       (3) with
                         Schedule 1 to    amendment      the Loan       (2) with    respect to (1) respect to (2)
                            the LA        12/20/2004    11/30/2005    respect to 1
                               1               2             3
       (1) Subprojects
        (a)Payment to     75,000,000      16,473,986    14,889,452        21.97          19.84          90.38
     temporary workers
         (b) Building     15,000,000       6,700,000     6,691,567        44.67          44.67          99.87
          materials
      (2a) Consultants'    1,400,000       1,242,000     2,010,557        88.71         143.61         161.88
    services for the NCU
         and RCUs
      (2b) Consultants'    5,030,000       1,600,000     1,420,407        31.81          28.24          88.77
     services other than
      under (2a) above
      (3) Front end fee    1,000,000       1,000,000     1,000,000         NA             NA              NA
       (4) Unallocated     2,570,000           0              0            NA             NA              NA
       (5) Stipends for        0           6,000,000      387,586          NA             NA             6.46
     trainees under Part
      A2 of the Project
           Subtotal       100,000,000     33,015,986    26,399,569        33.01          26.40          79.96
      Undisbursed loan                                   3,890,025
          proceeds
     (6) Cancellation of       0          66,984,014    66,984,014         NA             NA              NA
         03/04/2004
     Undisbursed amount        0               0         2,726,392
        in the Special
           Account
            Total         100,000,000    100,000,000    100,000,000


The significant under-spending of the original Bank loan is explained by: (i) the partial cancellation; (ii) the
almost 22 months it took from Board approval until implementation got off the ground (May 2000 to
March 2002); (iii) the complexity of the sub-project's upstream and downstream management significantly
delaying implementation; (iv) the complexities in aligning Law 80 concerning the use of public funds for
the acquisition of goods and services; (v) untimely and unfocused dissemination strategies; and (vi) the lack
of project implementing experience by MSP which hindered the implementation of the PADE in a short
(one-year) pilot period.




                                                    - 20 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

According to the PAD, Empleo was not intended to provide long-term solutions to the unemployment
problem. Rather, it was designed and implemented as a temporary investment to help urban unemployed
poor and unskilled workers weather the crisis until the economy recovered. Therefore, sustainability of
temporary employment generated by this investment was never stated as a goal and, as such, it was
reflected in the PAD at the appraisal stage and approved by COG and the Bank.

Empleo was not intended to be a public works program, so the results of its works are an externality of the
project rather than an objective. However, this portion of the program seemed to be somewhat successful
given that more than 83 percent of the public works completed under component A were still functioning
nine months after completion of the corresponding sub-projects. The evaluation study reports that 90
percent of the completed public works were considered useful by the beneficiary communities but 46
percent reported lack of preventive and/or corrective maintenance.  18




While Empleo built on the existing social capital to carry out the design and execution of approved
sub-projects, the Project was not capable of increasing social capital among Project stakeholders
(municipalities, NGOs and communities) nor between potential workers and potential employers in
participating communities (through improved professional and commercial relationships).

However, the lessons from the Empleo program are being utilized in a new program for displaced
populations. This program focuses more on labor than the public-works intensive Empleo had done, with
minimal material costs. It also integrates a training component such that program beneficiaries build
vocational and life skills while learning job skills through the works portion of the program.

In terms of the PADE, the GOC decided to terminate the program in December 2005. Once the impact
evaluation results are completed (expected October 2006), the GOC will be in a better position to determine
whether a modified version of the concept could work in the Colombian context or if the pilot taught us that
such a program cannot be effective in the Colombian context.

Given the above comments and the disappointing results of PADE, the ICR team ranks the sustainability of
both Empleo and PADE, as unlikely.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

According to the comments provided in section 6.1 above, no transition arrangements to regular operations
were considered in the Project.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Compared to the average project preparation time of Bank-financed investments ranging from 12 to 15



                                                      - 21 -

months, Empleo was prepared in a very short time of about 4 months, from identification (October 1999)
to appraisal (February 2000). As explained in section 3.5, this short preparation period is a result of the
Bank's responsiveness to the GOC's request to mount a social safety net operation to address the
immediate impact of the economic crisis. During this preparation period the Bank team undertook solid
analytical and social assessment work and a reasonably well thought-out conceptual framework for the
proposed investment, resulting in some very positive results, as discussed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 above.

However, the need to prepare the project quickly resulted in the Bank preparation team overlooking some
factors that had important implications for Project effectiveness:

First, the team did not anticipate the delays to Project implementation posed by the turnover of elected local
authorities who had to prepare their development plans before their project sub-components could be
approved and put into motion. As a result, most of the large municipalities targeted by the Project (71 of
78) only participated in Component A of Empleo 18 months after loan effectiveness. This issue could have
been flagged via a political economy assessment during preparation, and mitigation measures could have
been identified and implemented.

Second, the Bank preparation team underestimated the possible delays from the complex and centralized
institutional arrangements to screen, select, approve, legalize and disburse the first payment to eligible
sub-projects. While this issue was discussed during preparation and a suggestion was made to keep the
selection mechanism simple and transparent, it was not sufficiently incorporated into the project design.
The result was that transparency was ensured at the cost of simplicity.

Third, the rapid project preparation resulted in an long delay between Board approval and project
implementation. At the time the project went to the Board the final OM was still under preparation, the
NCU was not in place, an agreement had yet been signed between FINDETER and DAPRE-FIP and the
financial and project management information systems (including accounting, internal controls, financial
reporting and auditing arrangements) had not yet been fully developed. The Minutes of Negotiations of
April 7, 2000 noted that the draft OM needed fine tuning with respect to criteria for the financing of
building materials under Component A, environmental guidelines and the transfer of funds to the subproject
implementing agencies. The ICV to target municipalities and the procedures to rank eligible subprojects
under Component A was still under preparation at the time of the Board. The process to identify and select
the NCU's general coordinator, the chief administrative and financial person, an accountant, the
procurement specialist, the environment specialist and the chief of internal control had not been initiated by
Board. These tasks were completed six to eight months after Board approval - the agreement between
FINDETER and DAPRE-FIP was signed in November 2000 (about six months after Board approval) and
the conditions of effectiveness were complied with and approved almost 8 months after Board approval ­
which delayed project implementation.       Given the Bank's need to respond to the client's demand in a
timely manner, and the quick preparation, this result is not surprising, but, again, it did affect the success
of the Project.

Fourth, project preparation did not identify the risks posed by the lack of management experience of many
NGOs in handling public funds. The earlier case of NGO-lead public projects was a special case that
merited further analysis before attempting to replicate it for this project.

Fifth, at the time of the February 2000 appraisal mission, the GOC decided to change the project
implementation responsibility from a Project Coordination Unit within the NPD to the DAPRE-FIP under
the Office of the President. Despite the concerns raised by the Bank appraisal team concerning this change,
negotiations took place two months later.          Thus, there was little time to sufficiently address the


                                                     - 22 -

implementation readiness of the unit responsible for project implementation.

Finally, the rapid preparation did not allow sufficient time to collect quality baseline data. This resulted in
collection of baseline data after the project was implemented, leading to difficult problems in the program
impact estimates, as discussed in section 4.2.

Conceptual design-related discussions with the GOC centered on several options to address the best way to
cushion the poor and vulnerable population from some of the relevant implications of the economic crisis.     19


One option was to support temporary employment generation for unemployed and unskilled workers living
in poor areas while the other was to support conditional cash transfers to poor families. Despite GOC's
initial choice for the latter option, Bank support proceeded first with the employment-generation scheme
(Empleo), which could be implemented faster, while concurrently preparing, together with the IDB, a
conditional cash transfer project requiring more preparation time (Familias en Acción)20. As mentioned
before, these two approaches resulted in two separate Bank-financed operations and loans, and reflected the
Bank's effective client orientation to best accommodate GOC's request.

The Empleo design included few components and was programmatically well focused, targeting only urban
areas where the poor unemployed population was concentrated. Project design correctly excluded a series
of old and new social safety net projects to generate employment implemented by the GOC, like, inter-alia:
initiatives for micro, small and medium scale enterprises; soup kitchens; expansion of the Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar programs for 0-2 year-old children; education loans; and social
programs for senior citizens.

Finally, the Bank team could have been more thorough in filing its lending project documents in IRIS or as
paper documents in the Bank archives.

In conclusion, an unsatisfactory rating is given to the Bank performance during the lending process.

7.2 Supervision:

After Board approval, the Project was subjected to 12 field supervision missions, as detailed in Annex 4 of
the ICR. The project electronic files include 12 Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and/or ISRs. Since
this Project was jointly supervised with the Familias en Acción project and with the IDB, some supervision
missions were reported in Aide Memoirs filed in the Familias supervision reports. This points to the
challenge of maintaining economies of scale in project supervision while still reporting separately on very
linked projects.

Three TTLs oversaw the lending and supervision of this Project, thus needed continuity was largely
achieved by the Bank teams. The first TTL was responsible for the entire lending phase and part of the
supervision cycle, transferring responsibilities to the second TTL in March 2002. The second TTL lasted
from March 2002 to October 2004, covering most of the period of the Empleo implementation, while the
last one covered the period from October 2004 until the closing of the loan on November 30, 2005.

The Bank supervision teams largely dealt with the pitfalls in implementation described in the previous
section. Specifically, the limited institutional capacity, absence of a political economy assessment in the
priority municipalities, uncertain implementation readiness at the time of Board approval, and complexity
in the Project's design led to a slow implementation phase with limited results. It took almost 8 months
after Board approval (May 11, 2000) for the loan to become effective (January 16, 2001). Apart from the
Front-end-fee of US$1 million dollars collected at effectiveness, total loan disbursements in 2001 amounted


                                                     - 23 -

to a meager US$3 million, an indication of a sluggish implementation pace. Retroactive financing of up to
US$2 million was never claimed by the Borrower.

During 2002, as implementation started to improve, other issues dominated the Bank's supervision agenda,
inter-alia: (i) the long-time from approval to completion of eligible sub-projects (about 20 months); (ii) the
short average employment duration of beneficiaries of 2.84 months; (iii) the duration of the eligible projects
of about 3.9 months, as compared to the appraised target of a maximum of 5 months; (iv) the low
participation of the large municipalities considered as priority in the PAD and the appropriateness of the
targeting mechanisms; (v) the continuous changes and adjustments required to the OM; (vi) the objection of
the Ministry of Finance to authorize direct payments to eligible sub-projects as a Bank condition to opening
the Special Account; (vii) the tight fiscal constraints among some municipalities to allocate their
counterpart funding for building materials (averaging about 50 percent of total cost of eligible
sub-projects); (viii) the limited ability of the NCU and the regional coordination units (RCUs) to
appropriately manage the Project; (ix) the lack of use of the agreed formula to select high priority
subprojects raising concerns about the likely negative impact on the quality of approved sub-projects; (x)
the high pace of expending the resources for materials by the small, non-priority municipalities, well above
the appraised targets, and the likely depletion of the resources still available for materials in the near future;
and (xi) difficulties in measuring some of the indicators agreed in Annex 1 of the PAD.

The Bank supervision teams identified these, and other implementation issues, flagged them to the
Borrower and Bank management in their respective Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office reports and PSRs/ISRs
and reached agreements as to how best address them. Some of the above mentioned issues were addressed
and were beginning to show improvement. For example, the processing time was reduced from 20 to about
17 months over the life of Empleo, large priority municipalities started to engage in the Project, and
financing of building materials was discontinued as of March 2003.

The risk rating of the Project was increased from moderate to substantial, and some unsatisfactory ratings
were entered in some of the PSRs/ISRs as detailed in Annex 4 of this ICR. In addition, the Bank team
ensured that an impact evaluation study be undertaken. The main findings of this study are explained in
Chapter 4 of this ICR. The Bank also undertook an environmental assessment of Project implementation in
early 2002 and found no obvious negative environmental impacts.

As mentioned, after the partial cancellation of the loan, the Bank authorized a second amendment to the LA
in December 2004 and extended the closing date to November 30, 2005. This amendment allowed for
US$6 million of uncommitted loan proceeds to be used to pilot and evaluate the PADE. The Borrower held
technical discussions and presented to the Bank on October 10, 2004, a preliminary operational description
of a new pilot to achieve the same project objectives but through a different scheme. It took the Bank about
14 months to process this amendment, thus shortening the implementation period of the PADE, given the
new closing date of the LA. During the technical discussions and supervision, the MSP presented take-up
targets, which seemed overly optimistic to the Bank team given the one year period for implementation of
the pilot, but the client stressed that the PADE was intended to be a pilot and that the short time period was
warranted. As reflected in the project files, this amendment was countersigned by the Borrower in April
2005 and no significant outcome was observed from the PADE until loan closing (for reasons explain
below in Section 7.6). Some discussion took place with Bank management to consider a new extension of
the closing date beyond the November 30, 2005, to allow sufficient time for the PADE pilot to be executed.
Based on the Project's performance, the fact that that the loan had already been extended twice, and the
lack of clarity on where the implementation problems were and how they could be addressed, the extension
was not granted.




                                                     - 24 -

The ICR mission considers the ratings assigned in the PSRs and ISRs shown in Annex 4 of the ICR as
realistic reflecting the implementation facts of the moment. No formal mid-term review was undertaken by
the Bank team. Instead, the impact evaluation study was considered as a proxy. Two ex-post procurement
reviews were undertaken during the life of the Project finding no major issues.

Putting aside the poor project preparation and only focusing on supervision activities for the purpose of
rating these activities, the bank's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Despite the Bank's saftisfactory supervision efforts, it was still unable to compensate for an unsatisfactory
project preparation. Thus Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Empleo was prepared by a qualified Colombian technical team under the coordination of the NPD in close
collaboration with the Bank and IDB. The proposed Project design was fully owned by their respective
stakeholders and had full political support from the GOC and other social sector-related actors. The
preparation process of both the Empleo and Familias investments benefited from a PHRD Grant
(TF026299) of US$562,000.

As mentioned above, the preparation design was enriched with the findings of several analytical studies
done by both the NPD and the Bank, as well as by the lessons learned from Argentina's Trabajar, a
Bank-financed employment generation project. Trabajar's success was a key factor in the choice of
workfare as an instrument for strengthening Colombia's Social Safety Net. An ex-post look concludes that
certain key aspects of the first phase of Trabajar that were crucial to its success were not possible in
Colombia, including: (i) provision of an income to beneficiaries below the minimum wage to allow for
self-targeting of program participants21; (ii) inclusion of labor as the only category of expenditure22; and (iii)
a more decentralized and less complex managerial and oversight implementation process.23           Despite the
effort made to include these aspects in project design, the GOC's decision to pay wages in-line with the
exiting minimum wage24 (as required by the Colombian Constitution); include the financing of building
materials in the smaller, non-priority municipalities; and utilizing NGOs as SIEs, worked against the
results objectives.

As mentioned in the section of lessons learned of this ICR (below), adoption of successful experiences
elsewhere does not necessarily lead to success. For example, the successful FOREC emergency rebuilding
process was the basis of the decision to execute the project through NGOs via . The GOC entered into an
arrangement agreement with the CCONG, which was responsible for the registry, assessment and selection
of possible participating NGOs. A total of 1,200 NGOs were registered, of which about 400, selected by
participating municipalities, ended up as executing entities. As explained before, the outcome of using
NGOs as executing entities in the Empleo project was quite different from the one resulting in FOREC.

During the lending cycle, NPD tested a preliminary version of the project design in the municipalities of
Bogotá, Manizales and Popayán. The findings of this pilot allowed for the fine tuning of the activities in
these three cities but were never extrapolated to the national program.




                                                      - 25 -

The GOC undertook a serious analytical processes to calculate the wage-sharing formulas for the PADE,
but the findings were not incorporated into the project design. Instead, other factors took precedence over
the analytical findings, having two important detrimental effects on the project. First, a rate was set that
was not sufficient to cover the costs to employers of hiring into the formal sector unskilled workers.
Second, the plan to test different wage-sharing formulas in different localities, was abandoned.

The preparation team did not undertake sufficient efforts to identify the demand for a wage-sharing
subsidy. The GOC assumed (in spite of the analytical work showing otherwise) that slow job growth was a
result of labor regulations that imposed a cost equal to 9 percent of the wage bill, but this assumption was
not verified by employers ex ante. A more careful analysis up-front would have allowed for a better
understanding of the market and the clients toward whom the program could be targeted. To the GOC's
credit, though, the pilot was a way to answer these very questions.

The ICR team is of the view that the Borrower's performance at the lending stage ranks as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

As mentioned above, a PCU was not established for this Project. Instead the GOC chose to transfer
management responsibilities from the NPD (which was responsible for designing this Project) to a NCU
within DAPRE-FIP. The implementation process was subject to lengthy and cumbersome centralized
management within DAPRE-FIP resulting in an average of 28.2 months from the time of reception of
eligible sub-projects to the completion of the accounts receivable of finished public works carried out under
Component A of Empleo. Findings from the impact evaluation study show an average of: (i) 234 days
(about 7.8 months) from receipt of sub-project proposals to their approval, including review and
assessment; (ii) another 8.5 months from approval to the issuing of the corresponding contract
(accumulated delay of 16.3 months); (iii) another 4 months from the issuing of the contract to the start of
sub-project implementation including the first payment to beneficiaries (accumulated time of 20.3 months);
(iv) another 3.9 months of duration of sub-project implementation (accumulated time of 24.2 months); and
(v) a little less than 4 months to complete the documentation (liquidación de obra) of finished public works
(28.2 months accumulated time).

GOC did not authorize direct payment to executing entities requested by the Bank as a condition to open a
Special Account because the safeguards of the Integrated System of Financial Information (Sistema
Integrado de Información Financiera (SIIF)) were not ready at the time of loan effectiveness. The SIIF
was designed to integrate in a modular and flexible fashion the following monitoring sub-systems:
accounting, budgeting, treasury, goods and services, personnel and Project execution. Having not enacted
direct payments to executing entities at the time of project launching resulted in significant delays of project
implementation.

The NCU had a total of five coordinators during the life of the Empleo project: (i) the first from a little
after Board approval in May 2000 to the end of that year; (ii) the second, with the longest tenure, from
December 2000 to June 2002; (iii) the third from the December 2002 to June 2003; (iv) the fourth from
July 2003 to February 2004; and (v) the last, with the mandate of liquidating the Empleo scheme, from
March 2004 until the closing date of November 30, 2005. The NCU lacked a coordinator during the entire
second semester of 2002, a key period that coincided with the arrival of the newly elected Government that
took office in August 2002. This high turnover in the management of the Project negatively affected its
implementation and continuity.

While some of the coordinators managed the Project well, the earlier coordinators were less focused on the



                                                     - 26 -

social protection (i.e. employment) objectives of the operation and more focused on the works phase. This
resulted in a lot of attention and budget to works and under-achievement of the social targets.

It took almost two years after Board approval and 15 months after loan effectiveness to observe a
reasonable Project implementation and loan disbursement pace. This came about as a result of intensive
efforts in capacity building at the national and municipal levels, intensive information campaigns,
especially to induce the participation of big municipalities, and adjustments to the OM.

Certain important decisions to improve project implementation were made by the Borrower. First, it was
decided at the end of 2002 not to continue financing building materials. Second, the three payments
included in the original design ­ the first at the signing of the contract, the second upon evidence of
implementation progress and the third, and final, upon completion ­ were reduced to two payments - at the
start and at the end, thus streamlining the payment process. Third, the regional NCU offices were
suppressed, and the central NCU was streamlined as a way to continue addressing the legal, payment and
supervision bottlenecks that had significantly slowed down the implementation process.          Fourth, the
supervision of sub-project execution was transferred from private entities to the DAPRE-FIP.

The implementation of the PADE could have been improved if the project coordination team had put
greater effort into monitoring results and identifying the bottlenecks to program take-up. While the GOC
only intended to spend one year of its own resources and multilateral resources on this pilot, the rate at
which the implementation barriers were identified and addressed was insufficient within the time allotted
for the pilot.

For all of the above-mentioned observations, especially the ones related to the lengthy, cumbersome and
centralized management process, the ICR team ranks the Government implementation performance as
unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The FINDETER performed well. About 9,800 sub-project proposals were reviewed by FINDETER
through its 10 regional offices, of which 4,424 (45.7 percent) were technically approved and sent to
DAPRE-FIP for approval. FINDETER carried out its assigned task with due diligence in a timely fashion,
although paying more attention in the process to the building materials than to the labor component of the
sub-projects.

As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, NGOs' management performance was mixed. The relatively small
size of the pubic works financed under Component A of Empleo attracted some NGOs that were not
familiar with the regulations and procedures imbedded in managing public funds. Of 400 participating
NGOs, about 50 needed special support by the NCU. This lack of familiarity significantly increased the
administrative costs of overseeing project implementation related tasks, as monitoring tasks had to be
repeated many times until the NGOs were able to successfully comply with the existing regulations, thus
slowing down the implementation process.

Project implementation by municipalities was sluggish, reflecting, in some cases, changes of municipal
administrations and in others, fiscal crises that made the allocation of counterpart funding slow. Section
5.3 of the ICR describes some of the reasons causing these delays. In some cases, the delays in starting
approved sub-projects led some beneficiaries to withdraw from the Empleo scheme, in favor of other
sources of employment, explaining in part the worker turnover rates in Component A of Empleo. The
implementation delays and the loss of some potential beneficiaries to other jobs caused some municipalities



                                                    - 27 -

to forego the lottery selection process of eligible beneficiaries.

The Colombian Comptroller General of the Nation flagged some weaknesses with the Empleo's financial
management, but the financial management missions undertaken by the Bank, did not encounter major
issues. Some Audit Reports were not provided to the Bank on time. Those Audit Reports that included
qualified financial statements were appropriately addressed by the Borrower.

As mentioned above, supervision of sub-project execution by 14 eligible and qualified private engineering
consulting firms was carried out effectively, although they were skewed towards the building materials.
From 2003 onwards, supervision was transferred to the DAPRE-FIP.

As mentioned in section 4.2 of the ICR, the PADE was approved by the Bank and the Borrower (during the
second amendment to the LA) but implementation was slow. It took a rather long time from the technical
discussions held between 2003 and 2004 until the Bank's approval of the second amendment to the LA in
December 2004.        These discussions were mostly internal to the GOC, and concerned the location,
management, and design of the envisaged pilot. Once the amendment was authorized by the Bank, and the
corresponding agreements entered between DAPRE-FIP and MSP, DAPRE-FIP and the assigned fiduciary
entity (Fidecafe S.A) and MSP and SENA, a small pilot was launched in the city of Manizales in February
2005. The program was launched nationally in April 2005, with an initial target of 60,000. This target
was revised downward to 3,000 in mid-year 2005, and again to 2,000 in the second semester of 2005. The
first disbursement to the few participating firms was made in July 2005. An intensive, but unfocused,
dissemination campaign was undertaken in the first semester of 2005 and improved during the second
semester. A good management information system was developed for this project. The MSP lacked the
appropriate financial and human resources to conduct timely random on-site supervision visits to
participating firms.    The PADE was officially closed by the GOC on November 27, 2005 and the
undisbursed resources held at the fiduciary entity, returned to the GOC, for them in turn, to reimburse the
Bank and IDB.

Based on the above-mentioned observations, an unsatisfactory rating to the performance of the
implementation agencies is recommended.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on all of the above-mentioned observations, the ICR team grants the Borrower an overall
unsatisfactory performance rating.

8. Lessons Learned

With respect to the lending process

(a)      Ensure implementation readiness conditions prior to negotiations and accordingly minimize the
list of conditions for effectiveness. While this operation was prepared in a short period in response to the
crisis, the shortening of the preparation period did not lead to a faster implementation. Instead, precious
time was spent in loan preparation and the time to implement the Project was truncated. The current Board
presentation guidelines should apply even for crisis operations: (i) a financial management assessment
certification; (ii) a procurement capacity assessment certification including a first-year procurement plan;
(iii) an institutional capacity assessment including an appropriate political economy assessment of key
stakeholders; (iv) an approved OM by the Borrower; and (v) a baseline information to ensure an effective
impact evaluation study.



                                                      - 28 -

(b)     Simple project designs are likely to have a more effective and timely performance record. In the
case of Empleo, the exclusion of building materials as an eligible category of expenditure would have
significantly improved project implementation performance.

(c)     Allow for larger size sub-projects would have likely enticed the participation of the priority
municipalities at the onset of project implementation.

(d)     Involve stakeholders in project preparation. PADE was designed without consulting employers
and implemented under rules of the game attuned more to medium and large-size firms when in fact the
micro and smaller firms where the ones that participated the most.

(e)     Include impact and performance indicators which can be measured and are important for the
development objectives

(f)     Emergency responses require non-traditional management and fiduciary instruments.
Otherwise, as was the case of Empleo, the implementation process can be impeded by lengthy bureaucratic
procedures.

(g)     Adoption of models that have been successful elsewhere is not enough. While experiences from
elsewhere can provide good examples, and key concepts and components may be directly applicable, most
experiences will likely need to be adapted to the Colombian reality or to the project at hand.

With respect to the implementation phase

(h)     Ensure continuity between the designers and the implementers. Using one entity to design a
project and another to execute it increases the likelihood of a disconnect and thus, of an unsuccessful
implementation.

(i)     Avoid intermediate management players by decentralizing directly to those ultimately
responsible for Project execution. In the case of Empleo, it may have been more efficient to engage directly
with the municipalities to facilitate transparency and accountability and providing them support for
capacity building, on-site technical advice, and training. This recommended strategy would be attuned to
the strengthening of the municipalities started by the GOC in the early nineties.

(j)     Avoid locating the fiduciary-related responsibilities in units that have extensive time demands
in other projects. Accordingly, task competition would be drastically diminished.

(k)     More pertinent roles for the NGOs and the supervisory entities. NGOs could have played a
bigger role by providing social control of the use of allocated resources to the municipalities (veedurías)
rather than managing them. Supervision firms could have been empowered with the right to recommend, if
applicable, suspension of disbursements (interventoría) and provision of on-site technical support. In
addition, supervision at pre-specified points of time rather than at the request of the NGOs, would have
been more effective.

(l)     Changing rules during the implementation process is detrimental to obtain good results and thus
increases inefficiency and ineffectiveness. Empleo and PADE provide many examples of rule changes,
such as: (i) the inclusion of new NGOs at the request of municipalities invalidating in the process the



                                                     - 29 -

stringent criteria set by the CCONG; (ii) the supervision scheme from private firms to DAPRE-FIP; and
(iii) the cost-sharing formula adopted by PADE.

(m)       Protect the experiment to allow for learning from the programs. Learning from the programs is
limited since the Project rolled-out in a way that did not maintain the control and treatment groups.
Instead, the groups mixed, the project parameters changed, and the final evaluations could not give the
information that would be useful in future policymaking.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8 for the English translation of the Borrower's project evaluation

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Endnotes from the Main text


1 The Spanish name was initially Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios, but it was renamed Empleo
en Acción: Proyectos Comunitarios.

2Unless specifically stated in the ICR, the word Project refers to the entire implementation cycle including
the Empleo as well as the PADE periods of this Loan.

3This agreement allowed GOC to allocate 0.3 percent of GDP to social safety net programs outside the
regular federal budget for three years (thus not counting towards the budget deficit) and to finance these
programs with loans from multilateral agencies, including the Bank and the IDB.

4The amendments are detailed in Section 3.4. Basically, they include partial cancellation of the Loan (thus
modifying Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement), two extensions of the closing date, and addition of a new
sub-project with the same Development Objective initially defined for the operation.

5The extreme poverty line is equal to the value of a normative basket of food. This is approximately equal
to US$40 monthly per capita and US$160 monthly per household (in 2005 dollars). The extreme poverty
line is multiplied by the inverse of an Engel coefficient to calculate the poverty line, equal to US$100 per
person and US$394 per household monthly in 2005 dollars (MERPD, 2006).

6 While the minimum wage is denominated in monthly value, it does not specify the hours worked that are
associated with that monthly salary. Assuming that the mandated monthly minimum wage is intended to
pay for full-time employment, equivalent to 22 days monthly and eight hours per day, we can estimate an



                                                    - 30 -

hourly minimum wage.

7 In early 2003 a decision was made by GOC to conclude its agreement with private firms to supervise the
execution of public works and reassigned this responsibility to DAPRE-FIP.

8 The selection by lottery was important to ensure transparency in the selection of beneficiaries, but also to
create random treatment and control groups that could be utilized in the program's impact evaluation study.

9 Unemployment rates decreased from 20 percent in 2000 to 13.6 percent in the first semester of 2004;
GDP growth went from -4.2 percent in 1999 to 3.6 percent in 2003 (with a 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2003); and approximately 1.2 million jobs, mostly in the private sector, were created in 2003. The cuts
of GOC's social safety net programs during 2003 and 2004, including the original Project (Manos a la
Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios), were mainly due to severe fiscal constraints and a Government decision to
concentrate available resources on Familias en Acción.

10The PADE was conceived of in 2002 by the (newly elected) GOC presidency and championed by the first
Minister of Social Protection. Juan Luis Londoño, former Bank and IDB staff, conceived PADE in the
framework of the then recently enacted Labor Reform Law (Law 789) which he lobbied for its approval in
Congress in 2002. This law provided the context for the social development strategy of the Government
that took office in August 2002. Juan Luis Londoño would not live to see his conceptual dream in
implementation, as he died in a tragic airplane accident in February 2003. With his death, the PADE
experienced a shift in its original conceptual approach ­ from a voucher to be given to eligible beneficiaries
(demand-driven scheme) to a supply driven approach offering a subsidy of a certain percentage of the
existing minimum wage to participating firms temporarily hiring new workers from SISBEN I and II.
11The following firms were not eligible for participation in the program: public firms belonging to the
State, firms associated with Cooperatives, or firms engaged in the production, distribution or sales of
pornography, tobacco or weapons

12 The cost-sharing formula determined by the technical committee equated the cost to the employer of
participating in the program and the average wage paid to an informal sector worker. This was expected to
encourage employers to formally hire workers rather than hiring them as informal sector employees.

13Originally, the plan was to test different cost-sharing percentages in order to gain greater knowledge on
private sector behavior with respect to the GOC employment generation efforts. After much negotiation,
especially by the IDB, the agreement was reached to begin with the 28/78 formula, with a possibility of
modifying the formula once the program was up and running.

14 On average, it took almost 28 months from the time a sub-project was submitted by the municipalities
for assessment by FINDETER, and subsequently, to be approved and legalized by DAPRE-FIP until the
project was liquidated (completion of the review of expenditure support documentation).

15According to the impact evaluation study, nine months after leaving the program, beneficiaries worked
1.5 hours/week more than did those who did not participate (the control group).

16FIP was established in 1998 under the Law 487 to finance and manage the Plan Colombia. This Plan
included many programs under the Office of the President of Colombia in addition to the three embraced
under RAS, like: (i) the Fortalecimiento Institucional de Desarrollo Social, comprising, inter-alia, Campo



                                                    - 31 -

en Acción, Vías para la Paz and Gestión Comunitaria; and (ii) special programs for the armed forces.

17Namely, it is not clear if some of the positive results shown by the study are solely a product of the
Project or of a combination of other contextual factors not related to Empleo that were not controlled for
during the analysis.

18 Though, as discussed in section 4.2, only 76 percent of completed public works under this component
were of acceptable quality.

19In particular the direct impact on welfare through income reduction and its secondary effects on nutrition,
access to health services and education and breakdowns in family and social structures leading to declines
in social cohesion and raises in family and communal violence.

20 According to the different supervision reports, Familias en Acción (loan 7050-CO) has been an
outstanding performer, resulting in increased school attendance (particularly at the secondary level), better
nutritional intake and improve health conditions of poor children.

21 In other words, the program would not crowd out private sector employment.

22The first phase of Trabajar launched in Argentina in July 1997 did not finance building materials. The
second phase of Trabajar in Argentina, launched about a year later in August 1998, allowed a very small
portion of the total loan (about 2 percent) for the acquisition of building materials on a trial basis.

23Financial disbursements in the Trabajar scheme were carried out directly by the National Government to
the beneficiaries through the commercial banking system.           About nine months elapsed between the
presentation of proposals to the completion of the public works, including assessment, legalization,
contracting, financing, execution and review of supporting expenditure documentation. This contrasts with
the 28 month for the Empleo to process the same activities. During the second phase of Trabajar, financial
resources for the acquisition of building materials were transferred directly from the National Government
to the participating municipalities.

24The actual wage paid to beneficiaries was below the minimum wage, but adjusted by the number of hours
worked per day, it was equivalent to the minimum wage existing at that time.

25Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Empleo en Acción, Volumen VI. Evaluación de Impactos de
Mediano Plazo (Revisado), Unión Temporal IFS-SEI-Econometría, Septiembre 2005.

26This figure excludes the costs associated with the Programa de Apoyo Directo al Empleo, or PADE
(US$ 0.51 million), and the impact evaluation of the program (US$ 1.81 million).

27This figure corresponds only to the part of the program that was financed jointly by the World Bank and
the Government of Colombia. It excludes to the part of the program that was financed jointly by the Inter
American Development Bank and the Government of Colombia because disaggregated information is not
available.

28 Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost Benefit Analysis Summary. Project Appraisal
Document on a Proponed Loan in the Amount of US$100 million to the Republic of Colombia for
Community Works and Employment Project (Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios), Report No.



                                                     - 32 -

20159-CO, Human and Social Development Group, Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador,
and Venezuela, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, World Bank, Washington D.C., April
18, 2000.

29This estimate assumes that participants received the maximum pay and worked the average amount of
months.

30 Evidently, this argument does not consider the benefits to the population of the public works resulting
from the Empleo en Acción program, nor the possible beneficial effects of Empleo en Acción in terms of
the improved self esteem of the program participants of gaining useful employment. Also, it must be
considered that the two programs are aimed at different population groups: Familias en Acción is targeted
to families with children, whereas Empleo en Acción was targeted to unemployed workers.




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in net annual earnings of average                          58%                                     38%
individual beneficiary
Poor (bottom quintile) workers as percentage                       100%                                     100%
of Manos a la Obra laborers
Poor families' utilization of infrastructure built,                100%                 With respect to completed sub-projects: (i)
expanded or rehabilitated under Manos a la                                              accessibility to 95 percent considered good
Obra.                                                                                   or acceptable; (ii) operation of 83 percent
                                                                                       considered high; and (iii) 83 percent in use 9
                                                                                                 months after completion.


 Output Indicators:

                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of low income workers employed in               Total target 250,000 of which      228,000 (of which 76,858 were Bank
the Project, total and by gender                       50,000 are female workers              financed); 75,000 were women
Percentage of completed works of acceptable                        100%                                     76%
quality
Rate of project completion (handover to the                        100%                                     69%
project operator)
Percentage of projects located in poor areas                       100%                                     99%
(quintile 1 and 2 of the Indice de Calidad de
Vida)
Percentage of users of public works funded by                      100%                                  Not available
project who are poor
Leverage: ratio of total cost of subprojects                        95%                    Information disaggregated by type of
relative to their public funding                                                        sub-project and available in page 12, table
                                                                                       1.5, Volume I of the impact Evaluation Study
Efficiency of employment program (value of                          75%                                     31.1%
salaries received by workers/total government
cost of project)
Labor intensity of projects                                         40%                                  Not available




                                                                - 34 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                         US$ million  US$ million
A. Subprojects                                            90.00         21.58          23.98
B. Project management                                      1.40           2.01        143.57
C. Monitoring and evaluation                               5.03           1.42         28.23
D. PADE stripends (from second amendment to the LA)                       0.39             0
Unallocated                                                2.57           0.00

Total Baseline Cost                                       99.00         25.40
                        Total Project Costs               99.00         25.40
                                        Front-end fee      1.00           1.00
                  Total Financing Required               100.00         26.40




                                                - 35 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                              N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                            0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00              0.00            0.00              1.57            1.57
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00            1.40              0.00            1.40
Consultants' services for           (0.00)            (0.00)          (1.40)           (0.00)          (1.40)
the NCU and the Regional
Coordination Units (RCUs)
4. Consultants' services            0.00              0.00            6.44              0.00            6.44
other than 2(a) above, and
training
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)          (5.03)           (0.00)          (5.03)
5. Subprojects                      0.00              0.00           180.00             0.00          180.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (90.00)           (0.00)         (90.00)
6. Unallocated                      0.00              0.00            2.57              0.00            2.57
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.57)           (0.00)          (2.57)
   Total                            0.00              0.00           190.41             1.57          191.98
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (99.00)           (0.00)         (99.00)
Table A, Annex 6, PAD, Page 43.
1
/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies




                                                   - 36 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.24             0.00              2.24
Consultants' services for              (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.01)            (0.00)           (2.01)
the NCU and the Regional
Coordination Units (RCUs)
4. Consultants' services                0.00               0.00              1.88             0.00              1.88
other than 2(a) above, and
training
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.42)            (0.00)           (1.42)
5. Subprojects                          0.00               0.00            177.32             0.00             177.32
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (21.58)            (0.00)           (21.58)
6. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                0.00               0.00            181.44             0.00             181.44
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (25.01)            (0.00)           (25.01)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As part of Component C (Subproject evaluation), a cost-benefit analysis of Empleo was performed. It is
important to recall that the Subproject evaluation component was intended to finance the design and
implementation of a Monitoring and Evaluation system. Thus, the cost-benefit analysis is part of the
broader evaluation of the Empleo en Acción program, which included both the evaluation of the operation
of the program as well as its impact evaluation. The evaluation was carried out by Econometría
Consultores, Sistemas Especializados de Información, and the Institute of Fiscal Studies, a consortium of
consulting firms selected for this purpose through competitive bidding.

The evaluation was based on data from two major sources. The first is a socio-economic household survey
collected among participants and non-participants. This survey collected information of income,
consumption, labor supply, etc. at the household and the individual levels, and formed the basis of the
impact evaluation of the program.

The second is a random sample of 1,124 subprojects of the total 3,721 projects approved. The data were
collected from the subproject files at DAPRE-FIP, the program executing agency. The sample includes
information on several technical characteristics of the subprojects, including the original proposals, the
dates of execution, the financial status, etc.

These two major sources of data were complemented with information collected through field visits to 550
subprojects in 19 Departments and 82 municipalities of three different regions of the country. Data were
collected on several technical characteristics of the subprojects, including degree of completion, perceived
quality and sustainability, and environmental impacts.

The quantitative evaluation was also complemented with a qualitative evaluation of Empleo based on focus
groups and interviews with the beneficiaries of the subprojects as well as key actors of project
implementation, including the NCU, implementing and supervising entities.

The cost-benefit analysis combined the estimates of the impact of the program on participants with the
administrative data on the costs of the program as well as with estimates of the benefits of the public works
financed though the program. Based on them it produced estimates of the Net Present Value (NPV),
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the Cost-Benefit Ratio of the program. The results of the cost-benefit
analysis are presented in Volume VI of the impact evaluation of the Empleo en Acción program.25

It is important to underscore three important limitations of this cost-benefit analysis. First, the estimation of
the causal effect of the program on participants (the so called treatment-on-the-treated parameter) was
complicated by the fact that the original experimental design of the program was lost due to the low take-up
rates and the intervention of the municipal authorities in the selection of beneficiaries. The loss of the
treatment and control groups forced the evaluators to adopt a non-experimental evaluation scheme based on
an instrumental variables estimator. This identification strategy is not discussed sufficiently or justified
appropriately in the evaluation, so it is not possible to ascertain how robust the estimates are.

Second, the benefits of the public works financed though the program are not estimated in the impact
evaluation itself. Instead, these benefit estimates are drawn from other studies done by Econometría in the
past, some of which are evaluation studies for infrastructure projects financed by the World Bank (e.g.
sewerage, sanitation, etc.). Given that these documents are not publicly available, there is no way of
assessing the reliability of these estimates.




                                                      - 38 -

Third, the choice of which benefits and costs to include in the cost-benefit analysis seems arbitrary. Many
important costs, including the costs incurred by the municipalities in planning and preparing the projects, or
the environmental costs caused by the project, are not included. While some of the inclusion or exclusion of
certain key costs and benefits were driven by data availability considerations, these are not discussed
appropriately in the evaluation, which gives the impression of including them or excluding them arbitrarily.

In light of the three limitations discussed above of the cost-benefit analysis included in the impact
evaluation, this section does not include a summary of those results. Nevertheless, one can still perform a
simple cost effectiveness analysis of the Empleo en Acción program using the information provided by
DAPRE-FIP in order to compare it with similar programs implemented in Colombia and other developing
countries.

The latest information available from DAPRE-FIP (corresponding to March 23, 2006) shows that the total
cost of the program was US $354.01 million, or approximately COP $797,230,520,000,26 the total number
of beneficiaries was 228,000 persons, the average number of months each participant worked in the
program was 2.84 months, and the percentage of the total cost of the program that was allocated to paying
labor costs was 49.9%.27

Based on these data, one can obtain an estimate of the cost effectiveness of generating a job, and compared
it to similar programs implemented in other countries. The results are shown in the following table, which
is taken from the Project Appraisal Document28and updated with the information from Empleo en Acción:

The estimates obtained from the data discussed above show that cost per job generated by the Empleo en
Acción program was significantly higher than those of similar programs implemented in Colombia and
other developing countries. In particular, Empleo en Acción had a cost of approximately US $35.9 dollars
per day per job, whereas the average of the three other programs in Colombia considered was US $10.4,
and US $8.8 for the whole sample.

In terms of the adjusted dollars per day per job, the cost of the Empleo en Acción program (12.4 adjusted
dollars) is higher than the average for the whole sample of programs considered (8.1 adjusted dollars).
Moreover, if one excludes Niger from the sample, which biases the average upwards due to the high cost of
the program in absolute dollar terms and its low per capita GDP, the average for the rest of the sample
would be 5.2 adjusted dollars per job per day, which would make the average cost of generating a job per
day of the Empleo en Acción even higher than the average. Finally, in terms of the labor share of the total
costs, the Empleo en Acción program had an average of 50%, which coincides with the average for the
whole sample.

In terms of the income transferred to program participants, Empleo en Acción also fared poorly. Based on
the information contained in the impact evaluation, it is estimated that the program had an average cost of
US $1,553 per participant (approximately COP $3,496,625). Given that the benefits per participant were
capped at COP $180,000 per month, which is equivalent to half the legal minimum wage (for half a day of
work) at the time of the project, and given that participants worked for an average of 2.84 months, this
implies that the average benefits that participants received were COP $511,200.29 Thus, the program
managed to transfer only around 15 cents for every peso spent.




                                                    - 39 -

                   Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items
                                           Years        Dollars  GDP per Adjusted Labor
                                                                                 dollars
                                                        per day                  per day        share

Cost of Creating Jobs                                   per job    capita4       per job5        cost
Argentina                                       1998         9.8        8,410           1.2         0.6
Bolivia                                  1987-1990             8          600         13.3          0.4
Chile                                           1987         0.5        1,320           0.4
Honduras                                 1990-1991             1          590           1.7         0.4
Costa Rica                               1991-1994             4        1,900           2.1
Bangladesh                               1991-1992           1.6          210           7.6         0.5
Pakistan                                        1992         2.8          380           7.4         0.6
Niger                                           1993          11          270         40.7          0.3
Colombia6                                       2000         12.5       2,443           4.5         0.5
Colombia6                                       2000         10.2       2,443           3.5         0.5
Colombia6                                       2000         8.6        2,443           2.9         0.5
Empleo en Acción                        2001-2004            35.9       2,443         12.4          0.5

Average                                                      8.8                        8.1         0.5

Source: Annex 4 of the Empleo en Acción Project Appraisal Document, and updated with own calculations based
on data provided by DAPRE-FIP corresponding to March 23, 2006.
Main Assumptions on the cost per job generated:
1. Current Program: Minimum wage + non-wage benefits, 312 days per year
2. Minimum wage, no benefits
3 0.7 Minimum Wage, no benefits
4. GDP per capita US$ within 2 years of program (data from WDR, various issues)
5. Adjusted by GDP per capita as a measure of average labor productivity. Since the dollar costs were calculated at
   market exchange rates, GDP per capita at market exchange rates is the appropriate variable, no the PPP
   corrected figures
6. Labor costs share for all Colombia calculated using 2/.

Relative to the cost of transferring resources through alternative social programs, such as conditional cash
transfers, this figure is very low. For example, Coady (2002) estimated that the Progresa-Oportunidades
program in Mexico transferred to households 91 cents for every peso spent. Given that Colombia now has
in place Familias en Acción, a program very similar to Progresa-Oportunidades, the opportunity cost of
transferring resources to households through other programs, such as Empleo en Acción, seems very high.
Thus, assuming that Familias en Acción had a similar effectiveness in transferring resources to
participants, the decision of the Government of Colombia to suspend the operation of Empleo en Acción
and reallocate the funds to Familias en Acción seems warranted.    30




                                                       - 40 -

                                              References

Coady, David P. (2000), "The Application of Social Cost-Benefit Analysis to the Evaluation of Progresa,"
mimeo, International Food Policy Research Institute, Washington, D.C., November 2000.

Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Empleo en Acción, Volumen VI. Evaluación de Impactos de Mediano
Plazo (Revisado), Unión Temporal IFS-SEI-Econometría, Septiembre 2005.

Project Appraisal Document on a Proponed Loan in the Amount of US$100 million to the Republic of
Colombia for Community Works and Employment Project (Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios),
Report No. 20159-CO, Human and Social Development Group, Country Management Unit for Colombia,
Ecuador, and Venezuela, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, World Bank, Washington
D.C., April 18, 2000.




                                                 - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/05/1999                8      One task team leader and
                                             economist, two social safety net
                                             and impact evaluation specialists,
                                             two economists, one poverty
                                             assessment specialist, one
                                             institutional capacity building
                                             specialist and one education
                                             specialist.



              12/12/1999                9    One economist, one country
                                             officer, two social safety net and
                                             impact evaluation specialists, two
                                             economists, one institutional
                                             capacity building specialist, one
                                             procurement specialist and one
                                             consultant.




 Appraisal/Negotiation

              12/12/2000              10     One task team leader and
                                             economist, one country
                                             officer, two social safety net
                                             and impact evaluation
                                             specialists, two economists,
                                             one institutional capacity
                                             building specialist, one
                                             procurement specialist and
                                             one consultant.



              Appraisal               10     One task team leader and
              2/12/2000                      economist, one country officer,
                                             one social safety net and impact
                                             evaluation specialists, one
                                             economist, one urban cluster
                                             specialist, one institutional
                                             capacity building specialist, one
                                             procurement specialist, one
                                             operational analyst and two
                                             consultants.

              Negotiation
              04/07/2000              11     One task team leader, one legal



                                              - 42 -

                            counsel, one disbursement
                            officer, one principal
                            procurement specialist and one
                            procurement analyst, the regional
                            financial management officer,
                            one financial management
                            specialist, two economists, one
                            operational analyst and one staff
                            assistance.

Supervision

           11/06/2000    10 One task team leader and
                            economist, two social safety
                            net and impact evaluation
                            specialists, one
                            environmental specialist, one
                            economist, one financial
                            management specialist, one
                            education specialist, one
                            procurement specialist, one
                            institutional capacity
                            building specialist and one
                            implementation consultant.

                                                                 S    S
           12/07/2000    1  one financial management
                            specialist

                                                                 S    S
           04/23/2001    9  One task team leader and
                            economist, two social safety net
                            and impact evaluation specialists,
                            one environmental specialist, one
                            economist, one financial
                            management specialist, one
                            education specialist, one
                            procurement specialist and one
                            implementation consultant.
                                                                 S    S
           01/27/2002    2  One task team leader and
                            environmental specialist and one
                            environmental specialist.

                                                                 S    S
           03/11/2002    6  Three task team leaders (for Ln
                            7017-CO, Ln7050-CO and one
                            for the meetings in Bogotá), one
                            procurement specialist, one
                            financial management specialist
                            and one implementation
                            consultant.

           11/19/2002    5  One task team leader and             U    S



                            - 43 -

                                               economist, one Project task team
                                               leader and three consultants.

               02/19/2003                 4    One task team leader and
                                               economist, one Project task team
                                               leader and two consultants.

               02/16/2004                 4    One task team leader and
                                               economist, one economist, one
                                               financial management specialist
                                               and one project implementation
                                               specialist.

               07/12/2004                 5    One task team leader, two
               Identification of               economists, one social protection
               WSPP                            specialist and one project
                                               implementation specialist

               10/23/2004                 4    One task team leader, the social
                                               sector manager, one economist
                                               and one implementation
                                               consultant

               01/28/2005                 3    One task team leader and
                                               economist, one social protection
                                               specialist and one consultant
               10/25/2005                 5
                                               One task team leader and
                                               economist, two social protection
                                               specialists, one project
                                               implementation consultant and
                                               one consultant

 ICR
               03/20/2006                2      One task team leader
                                                (consultant) and one project
                                                implementation specialist
                                                (consultant)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  65                       292,758.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       26                       125,467.00
  Supervision                                 68                       293,518.00
  ICR                                          6                       26,000.00
  Total                                     165                        737,743.00




                                               - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Colombia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Progress Report of November 18, 1999 (Report
17107-CO).

Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
October 5, 1999.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
December 12, 1999.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
February 2, 2000.

Project Concept Document (PCN), The World Bank, December 2, 1999.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No20159-CO. The World Bank, April 18, 2000.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. April 4, 2000.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 7017-CO. The World Bank. Conformed copy. October 20, 2000.

Amendments to the Loan Agreements. First amendment of April 17, 2001. Partial Loan cancellation of
March 5, 2004. First extension of the closing date November 28, 2004...Second amendment of December
20, 2004. Second extension of the closing date May 2004.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters, Project
Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) of all the Supervision Missions
recorded in Annex 4 of this ICR. The World Bank. From November 11, 2000 to October 25, 2000.

Borrower project implementation documents

Consultoría para la Evaluación de Impacto del subprograma Empleo en Acción. (Revisado), Volumen
I al VII. Unión Temporal IFS-SEI-Econometría, Septiembre 2005.




                                                  - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                                       SOCIAL SUPPORT NETWORK
                       "EMPLEO EN ACCION" PROGRAM­ Community Projects
                                REVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS

     The following report summarizes the most relevant aspects of the development and implementation
     of the "Empleo en Accion" Program; its results, challenges and lessons learned; and indicators and
     goals reached regarding opportunities for improving the standards and quality of life for those
     affected by the national economic crisis, during the period 2000­2003, when the program was
     developed and implemented.         The experience summarized herein seeks to contribute to the
     improvement of the model for future interventions equal or similar in nature.

     The first part of the report covers the main aspects related to the implementation of the Program, its
     performance, indicators and results, and lessons learned for future projects. The second part
     presents suggestions for future operations, aspects related to the measurement of indicators to assess
     program performance and development impact, and some comments on the performance of the
     World Bank.

     1.        PURPOSE AND GOALS

     The impact of the economic crisis towards the end of the 90s could be seen in an increase in
     unemployment, a fall in income, restrictions to access to basic social services, and increases in the
     levels of poverty, among others . In this context, there was the need to create a mechanism for
                                       1


     social policy that, in view of the economic crisis, could address in a timely and efficient manner the
     demands of the population most affected by the crisis. Thus, the Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo
     Social / RAS) came into being as a set of programs to help the segments of the population most
     affected by the crisis , such as the poorest unemployed in large cities with the "Empleo en Acción"
                           2


     Program (subject of this report); the poorest households in municipalities with less than 100,000
     inhabitants with the "Familias en Acción" Program; and unemployed youth between the ages of 18
     and 25 in 7 main cities with the "Jóvenes en Acción" Program. The three programs were designed
     in the second semester of 1989 and financed with loan proceeds from the International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development (BIRF) and the Inter-American Development Bank. For their
     implementation, a Program Coordinating Unit (PCU) was established in the Investment for Peace
     Fund (FIP in Spanish) . 3




     The purpose of the Empleo en Accion Program was to mitigate the negative impact of the fall in
     income due to loss of employment in the most vulnerable population, through the financing of
     unskilled labor required for building small infrastructure projects for no longer than 5 months and
     located in urban areas, localities, and neighborhoods living in poverty (SISBEN 1 and 2).
     Specifically, the program sought to benefit with temporary employment the population located in
     levels 1 and 2 of SISBEN, unemployed adults of legal age with identify card and not registered in a
     daytime education programs.

     For its implementation, an estimated US$305 million were allocated of which, US$100 were
                                                                                4


     financed by BIRF, US$110 by IDB (under emergency conditions) and US$95 were national and
     local counterpart funding. Of these resources, US$280 million were allocated to project support
     (labor and materials) as follows: US$90 from the BIRF loan, US$100 from IDB, and US$90 in


                                                   - 48 -

local counterpart funding. From the loan resources, US$135 million were allocated to pay for labor
and US$55 for materials; the remaining went to support program operations and its impact
evaluation.

Program goals included: generation of 300,000 temporary jobs with, at most, 5 month duration; and
funding for 5,000 public or community projects, which would contribute to the improvement of the
quality of life in the beneficiary population.

2.        CHARACTERISTICS OF THE DESIGN

In the beginning it was expected that the allocation of resources would concentrate in those
municipalities with the highest unemployment, and thus, 80% of resources were allocated to priority
cities and 20% to non-priority municipalities. Contributions to unskilled labor were capped at
$180,000 monthly per beneficiary community, corresponding to a maximum of 5 months in half
work shifts and a percentage to partially cover materials .
                               5                           6




The total cost of projects was estimated to be between $40 and $300 million pesos. In the case of
projects that included a contribution for the purchase of materials, this materials cost was not to
exceed $200 million pesos.        The financing of materials was partial and restricted to projects
presented by territorial entities (city halls, government districts or decentralized entities).    To
increase the number of beneficiaries for each project and maximize the use of labor, increase
funding per project, and encourage municipal participation, the option of using two half work shifts
was added later.

Program implementation was to be coordinated by the RAS, which as indicated earlier, is part of the
economic and social recovery strategy of Plan Colombia, and operates under the direction of the
FIP. It was further established that projects could be submitted for funding by all public entities at
the local, municipal, district, and departmental levels, and by civil society organizations with
technical and financial capacity to implement projects; all of which would directly be responsible for
implementing the approved projects.

Approved project resources approved would be administered by civil society organizations, mostly
NGOs, or Management Organizations (Organismos de Gestion / OG) under criteria established by
the program. The OGs would have the added responsibility to guarantee targeting to the poorest
population, given their social function and proximity to the target population.

The Colombian Federation of NGOs (Confederación Colombiana de Organizaciones No
Gubernamentales /CCONG), through an agreement signed with the Office of the President would
create a National Registry for Management Organizations, evaluate and select eligible OGs. From
this registry, project submitting entities would choose the administrator for FIP funding.

Because of its technical and national capacity and its national coverage FINDETER (Financiera de
Desarrollo Territorial), through an agreement with the Office of the Presidency, would receive,
register, and evaluate project proposals, which would later be approved by the Directing Council of
FIP. Transfer and utilization of resources would be done through trilateral agreements between the
national government, project advocates and Management Organizations. These agreements would
establish the scope and responsibilities of all parties.




                                              - 49 -

Implementation activities would be done through contracts or agreements and be the responsibility
of the institution, in this case FIP, through the Coordinating Unit (RAS).           The program's
operational cycle was defined in accordance with the project cycle of projects submitted for funding
and taking into account the processing steps: proposal submission, evaluation, implementation,
supervision, and closing. Conceptual elements, implementation plan, procedures and mechanisms
for its application, would be presented in detail in a Program Operational Manual and corresponding
tools.

Following is a summary of the operation and management of the program linked to the analysis of
accomplishments, difficulties, and lessons learned in its operation.

3.        PROGRAM OPERATIONS

The program initiated its operational cycle with the formulation and presentation of project
proposals (including the selected OG) following an evaluation and viability assessment; allocation,
authorization, and transfer of resources; supervision; monitoring; and lastly, the signing of the
agreement.

A personnel structure was established for the Program which included: a Program Coordinator, 5
Project Cycle Coordinators; (planning and follow-up, evaluation, technical assistance, operation and
supervision), and an Environmental Advisor, each with assistants (on average three); and six
Regional Advisors for an equal number of zones across the country, and whose duties included:
program promotion and dissemination, community relations, technical assistance for the formulation
of proposals, and follow-up of individual project activities.

This structure was modified towards the end of 2002 , reducing it to a Program Coordinator, an
                                                         7


Evaluation and Follow-up Coordinator, a Coordinator of Operations and nine advisors; thus the
remaining posts were eliminated at a time when the program was implementing 3,711 projects.
After the national government decided to terminate the program on December 31, 2004, a Managing
Liquidator was hired (March, 2004) to oversee the process of closing down the program. The OGs
registry by the National Federation of NGOs and the registry and evaluation of project proposals by
FINDETER was carried out as originally envisioned.

In the beginning the program provided technical assistance, information, and briefings on project
formulation to all project submitting entities, in accordance with Program guidelines, and to the
OGs, on aspects related to project management. The Program liquidated all agreements upon
conclusion of the projects using consulting firms. Disbursements were conditioned on physical
progress made and compliance with Program procedures as per the Operational Manual.

With regards to supervision, program design had contemplated as its main objective to contribute to
the optimization of technical, human, and financial resources which would impact efficacy and
efficiency in the utilization of resources approved for the program. This implies that supervision
would verify compliance with project objectives and goals, would provide technical assistance to the
program's direct beneficiaries to comply with procedures and timetables proposed in the Guide for
Project Presentation, and to the extent that the projects proposed would contribute to program
objectives (income generation for unskilled labor). To carry out supervisory activities, a total of 14
engineering firms were hired who used the Supervision Manual prepared by the program and
approved by the Banks.



                                             - 50 -

  In financial and legal aspects the program was supported by FIP. This support was based on
  service agreements that were modified several times during the life of the project, just like the
  Procedures Guide. The arrangement permitted to reduce and expedite processes and activities for
  both the OGs and project submitting entities, the last modification took place in March, 2003, when
  it was detected that there were delays in disbursements and consequently in program implementation
  given the number of procedural steps originally established.

  4.        PROGRAM EXECUTION

  The program was implemented during the period between September 2000 and the end of 2004. In
  March of 2003 the approval of new projects was suspended. Total program resources allocated to
  project funding amounted to US$210 million, as follows:
                   8




Item                                                  Millions US$
Total budget for project financing                   210
Budget execution                                     96
- Small works                                        84
- Operation and evaluation                           12
% of Program Execution                               46%



  Budget execution corresponds to funding of 3,724 projects completed or 75% of the original target.
  The program contributed US$45 million (24% of the total cost, not including the value of the OGs).
  With 46% of the programmed executed resources, it was possible to benefit 228,000 poor (76% of
  the initial goal of 300,000).

  It is important to note that the average length of temporary employment for these beneficiaries was
  of 2.84 months and not 5 as originally estimated. This was due to several reasons related to
  program development; one of them was the high demand from beneficiaries in the municipalities,
  which in turn, led to the municipalities seeking to extend benefits to all who asked; thus reducing the
  length of employment for individual beneficiaries. A high turnover of labor in the projects was also
  observed due to delays in the initiation of the projects or because more profitable alternative
  employment was found. This shows that the distribution of benefits among a larger number of
  beneficiaries was offset by fewer benefits for each individual beneficiary.

  Cost-related observations show that local participation was in the order of 55%, a value which
  surpassed the original estimate of 30% at design. The final values are shown in the following table.




                                               - 51 -

                                 Item                                    Millions US$
Total cost of projects financed                                         189
- Program resources (unskilled labor, materials, OGs)                   84
- Local counterpart                                                     105
Cost of projects, including administration and evaluation               201
Resources for the financing of unskilled labor                          45

 5.        KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

 Please refer to Annex 1 of the ICR

 6.        RESULTS AND PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHENTS                       9




 6.1       Program targeting

          l More than 80% of beneficiaries were living below the poverty line and 30% below the
               indigence line (extreme poverty line).
          l 66% of beneficiaries have, at least, one Unsatisfied Basic Need and 32% more than
               one.
          l In accordance with Katzman's Comprehensive Poverty Assessment Method, 51% of
               beneficiaries suffered from chronic poverty (unsatisfied basic needs and living below
               the poverty line), 29% from recent poverty (under the poverty line), and at least 10%
               from inert poverty (unsatisfied basic needs).
          l Program beneficiaries did not exhibit extreme conditions of structural poverty. Their
               poverty was based on situational factors associated with loss of employment and
               labor-related income, in accordance with program objectives.

 6.2       Program impact on the beneficiaries

          l Program implementation was timely; it took place when both employment and
               labor-related income in the target population were declining.
          l With regards to the impact expected on the generation of labor-related income, it was
               observed that in the short run (intervention period) there was an increase of 37.7%.
               The beneficiaries improved their capacity to be absorbed by the labor market nine
               months after the completion of the projects. Their labor-related income would have
               been 15.5% less without the program.
          l The program attracted a high share of the economically inactive population (38%),
               which returned to this condition after the temporary work finished.
          l Employment after the program was largely in the informal sector (69%).
          l The program functioned as an equal employment opportunity intervention for people
               with less employment opportunities.




                                              - 52 -

6.3    Program impact on the communities in the area of intervention

       l The impact on employment and labor-related income was similar in both priority and
            non-priority municipalities.
       l The impact on household income and consumption was higher in the priority
            municipalities.
       l The impact of projects financed was higher in non-priority municipalities.


6.4    Cost-effectiveness analysis

     l The high counterpart funding values observed were, without a doubt, a program success
           given the fiscal difficulties at the municipal level.
     l With less than 50% of resources initially budgeted, 3,274 projects were completed
           (74% of the initial target).
     l The distribution of employment benefits among a larger number of people was offset by
           reduced individual coverage/impact.

6.5    Cost-benefit analysis   10




   Three types of benefits were considered:

       l Higher labor market absorption in the short and medium term, assuming that the effect
            will vanish in 3 to 5 years after the program.
       l A one-time increase in market value for properties around the roads built (in the order
            of 28.5% on the basis of other studies) three years after the works were concluded.
       l Savings in resources due to a higher consumption of potable water at a lesser cost, as
            a result of construction and expansion of waterworks (estimated on the basis of the
            demand for water/consumer surplus).
       l When the benefits from increased labor market absorption and the projects are
            compared with their cost, it was found that the program had a positive net present
            value in the most optimistic scenario of $4,992 million pesos, which in turn generated
            an internal rate of return slightly higher than the cost of capital with a cost-benefit
            relationship of 1.01.     Thus, the decision to cancel the program prematurely was
            possibly the right one in terms of returns on the resources allocated to the program. It
            is important to note that the modest return found is due in large part to an assumption
            of non-performance in the long run for the benefits of higher labor market absorption.

6.6    Findings from the program evaluation

The main findings from the program evaluation are the following:

       l In general, it was not a poverty reduction program but it was effective in alleviating
            the effects of a short-term economic crisis.
       l It was not really a program to reduce unemployment in the economy.
       l It was a program to provide equal employment opportunity to persons who have many
            difficulties finding jobs in the labor market.



                                              - 53 -

       l It was an interesting social policy option to create a national program that supported
            small municipal projects, among the lowest social strata, and guaranteeing equal
            employment opportunities for the poorest and most vulnerable population.
       l The program addressed a similar type of situation as the one facing those displaced by
            the internal conflict and for whom a program of this type would be a major component
            of the comprehensive support they need.
       l According to reports from the Office of the President, some municipalities have started
            to apply the model for local programs of small projects.
       l The national counterpart contribution aimed at encouraging the construction of small
            works in low income neighborhoods and to equal job opportunities.
       l The social return from public expenditures by the central government, not including
            local counterpart resources, could be significant in terms of potential employment
            benefits.

6.7     Program impact on the communities in the area of intervention

       l The small projects funded by the program had no significant effects on productivity or
            commercial activity (sales) in the areas of intervention.
       l The overall perception of the beneficiary communities is that the impact was marginal
            on these two areas:
                o An increase in recreation and sports practices for children and youth in the
                   areas of intervention.
                o An increase in security in the area and public spaces.
       l Projects financed by the program contributed to improve the quality of life of the
            population living near the project sites.

7.      DIFFICULTIES

Following are some of the difficulties encountered in the execution of the program, according to the
people who participated:

       l Although technical assistance was provided to disseminate processes and procedures,
            changes in OG personnel and project submitting entities resulted in setbacks for
            individual processes.
       l Turnover in municipal governments hampered project development due to ignorance of
            the model or lack of political interest on the part of the incoming administration.
       l Implementation of the information systems took longer than expected, which in turn
            caused delays in the implementation of individual projects.
       l Even though the requirements for registration of an OG specified personnel with
            internet skills, many OGs had difficulties in this area.
       l There were difficulties in compliance both of the OGs and the project submitting
            entities (mostly municipal entities) vis-à-vis funding and execution of the projects,
            which resulted in the filing of a number of complaints.
       l In particular, one of the procedures that caused the most delays in project execution
            was the follow-up, updating, and approval of project agreements which was required
            for disbursements.
       l There was a tendency to centralize, create unnecessary steps, and disbursements
            delays.
       l For FIP, delays in the start of agreements and projects was due in large part to delays



                                            - 54 -

      by the project submitting entities in sending the required information and in the
      allocation of local counterpart resources.
   l It is also believed that there was inadequate management capacity by the OGs and
      mistakes in their selection, in particular with          regards to hiring OGs that were not
      located near the project sites or without offices in the area of intervention.
   l The OGs did not have the local presence originally anticipated, which limited their role
      to selecting beneficiaries and as paymasters. According to the beneficiaries, the OGs
      did not have a visible presence in the community, they used the existing social capital
      in the community but did not increase it, as they were not involved in the actual
      projects, and only in some instances they delivered on this program objective.   11




8.  LESSONS LEARNED

   l In a program like this, difficulties related to lack of compliance by the OGs or by
      project submitting entities could be reduced with a supervision scheme that includes a
      permanent field presence.
   l Use of an Operational Manual fostered clear rules from the onset.
   l The Information System (SEA) was an important tool for project follow-up.
   l These type of interventions require results-oriented management, both strategic and
      flexible, with a Manager and an implementation team with profiles according to
      program needs and committed to obtaining results.
   l Since implementation is part of a broader process of creating public value, it is
      suggested to Management the use of the value added chain as a baseline for
      performance and to make further explicit the strategic direction and planning of the
      program activities, and specifically to recognize the accomplishment of objectives
      associated with impact, effects, products, and activities.
   l To coordinate planning processes and functions, programming, implementation and
      evaluation, use as framework a focus on the expected results.
   l The monitoring system must be a management tool and input for the process
      evaluation, the knowledge base, and coordination of the entire management team.
   l Programs of this kind must have a more permanent social support ("acompañamiento
      social") for those responsible for implementation.
   l It is important to have a full time person permanently doing follow-up on the field.
   l The main purpose of the program was lost when efforts were concentrated on the
      execution of projects and not on funding of unskilled labor, which implies that some of
      the program evaluations were done on outcomes that were not part of the program
      objectives.
   l Direct community participation fosters ownership and appropriation of results, team
      work, and collaboration with public initiatives.
   l The projects contributed to improve the network of roads and of public and social
      services in low income neighborhoods, especially in small cities of less than 100,000
      inhabitants.
   l Temporary employment generation programs, such as this, could continue to be useful
      instruments for creating equal employment opportunities among poor and vulnerable
      populations, who, given their low productivity, cannot be easily employed by the
      formal private sector.    A similar situation facing those displaced by the internal
      conflict, which could have an option for dignified temporary work in the short run.
   l An interesting policy option for the National Government to create a program to




                                      - 55 -

             support the construction and maintenance of municipal works in neighborhoods of the
             low socioeconomic strata and to guarantee equal employment opportunities to the
             poorest and most vulnerable population.

9.       PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT IMPACT INDICATORS

Indicators summarize relevant information about diverse processes, dynamics, or relevant events,
they measure observable elements, both quantitatively and qualitatively, thus a good indicator needs
to be:

        l Precise, non ambiguous, subject to clear interpretation and understanding
        l Relevant to the user, reflecting elements or events that the user seeks to understand
        l Appropriate for the users
        l Practical and viable to be constructed with available resources
        l Reliable and objective, not subject to personal interpretation by the person who is
             gathering the data

In general, the program performance indicators aimed at observing the program expected results,
though the Program itself had some observations which are presented in Annex 1.

10.      WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE

        l Availability of World Bank funds was timely and this was an essential aspect of
             Project implementation.
        l The loan agreement specified in detail the categories of investment and key activities
             for project implementation.
        l The interaction between Bank staff and Program advisers and representatives, through
             field visits and permanent consultation, facilitated decision making processes during
             project implementation.
        l Scheduled supervision missions are an important tool for performance follow-up for
             both parties.




                                          - 56 -

                                            Notes (Annex 8)



1 Social Poverty, Poverty and Development; Presidential Advisor for Social Policy, p.56
2  From the outset it was clear that the RAS would provide partial aid to population groups affected
   by the crisis
3  Funds that manage the Administrative Department of the Office of the President, Republic
   of Colombia (DAPR) created in 1999 under Law 487, for the purpose of financing projects
   and programs to attain peace.
4  Operational Manual, p. 39
5  For municipalities below 500,000 inhabitants, financing was 60% and if it was larger,
   up to 20% of the estimated cost of materials for the project
6  In March of 2003 the contribution to the purchase of materials was suspended.
7  Change in Government
8  Including unskilled labor, materials, and resource administration by the OGs.
9  Based on information from the impact evaluation.
10 In the evaluation benefits from other types of interventions were not taken into account,
   which underestimates program benefits.
11 Social Capital and Management in the "Empleo en Accion" Program, July 2002.




                                               - 57 -

- 58 -

