Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 201 59-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 million
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR
COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (MANOS A LA OBRA: PROYECTOS
COMUNITARIOS)
April 18, 2000
Human and Social Development Group
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRElNCY EQUJIVAL.FNTS
(Exchalalge Rate LIfective Marclh 28, 2000)
Currency Unit Colombiani Peso (COP)
I Colombian Peso (COP)= US$ 0.0005099
US$ I = 1,961.00 Colombian Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January I  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAF            Andean Development Bank (Coorporaci In Andina de Foniento)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBO            Community-Based Organization
CPAR           Country Procurement Review
DAPRE          Departamento Administralivo de la Presidencia de la Repmhlica
DNP            Department of National Planning
EAT            Empresas Asocialivas de Trabajo
EG             Environmental Guidebook
FEC            Fondo dce Compensaci6n
FINDETER       Financiera dce Desarrollo Territorial
FIP            Fondo de Inversi6n para la Paz
FOS            Fondo de Solidaridad
GOC            Government of Colombia
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICBF           Inslilulo Colombiano de Bieneslar Familiar
TCV           Indice de Calicdad dle Vida
IDB            Inter-American Developnment Bank
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MIA            Management Information Agency
MIS            Management Information System
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NCU            National Coordinating Unit
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
PAC            Plan Anual de Caja
PCD            Project Concept Document
RAS            Red de Apoyo Social
RCU            Regional Coordinating Uniit
RPA            Regional Procurement Advisor
SBD            Standard Bidding Documents
SENA           Servicio Nacional de Aprendizqje
SIE            Subproject Implementinig Entity
SIIF           Sistema Integrado de Informaci(5n Financiera
SISBEN         Sistema de Seleccikn de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Andres Solimano
Director:   Xavier E. Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Vicente B. Paqueo



COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (MANOS A LA OBRA: PROYECTOS
COMUNITARIOS)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         8
3. Benefits and target population                                                        8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             16
2. Financial                                                                            17
3. Technical                                                                            18
4. Institutionial                                                                       18
5. Environment                                                                          19
6. Social                                                                               20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      23
2. Critical risks                                                                       24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       26



G. Main 24 Conditions
E. Effectiveness Conditioni                                                          26
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earninlg Project Entities, or Financial Summary  39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  49
Annex 9: Statement of Loanis and Credits                                                50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           52
Annex 11: Summary of Key Environmental Issues and Project Environmental Management      54
Guidebook
Annlex 12: Social Assessmenit and Participation                                         60
Anniex 13: Institutionial Organization and Flow of Funds                                64
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHD
Date: April 18, 2000                              Team Leader: Vicente B. Paqueo
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano         Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P068762                               Sector(s): SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance, SE -
Labor Markets & Employment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
i21 Loan        D Credit        C Grant         L Guarantee     LI Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $100.00
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% pa for first
four years; 0.75% pa thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local F_Loign                 Total
Government                                                      2.98           0.00          2.98
IBRD                                                           99.70           0.30        100.00
IDA
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                             90.00           0.00         90.00
Total:                                                        192.68           0.30         192.98
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: DAPRE (ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF THE PRESIDENCY)
Contact Person: Manuel Salazar
Tel: (57-7) 334-9763; 334-4405; 334-0031              Fax: 57-1-334-0221                Email:
m I salazar@dnp.gov.co
Bogota, Colombia
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2 0         2001        2002        2003
-   Annualf    3.0      17.0        35.0        45.0                           I
Cumulative1    3.0         20.0         55.0       100.0
Project implementation period: 3 years; 2000-2003
iExpected effectiveness date: 06/01/2000  Expected closing date:  11/30/2003



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
In order to alleviate the impact of the current economic crisis on the poor and vulierable
population, the Project would finance small, labor-intensive public works to provide temporary
employment to poor workers, increase the net labor income of their families, and prevent
deterioration of living standards in poor communities. The project would contribute to the last
goal not only through increased income from temporary work but also through improved basic
services in poor communities. It is expected that about 70-100 percent of the workers hired
ulider subprojects financed by the Project would come from households in the first (bottom)
quintile of the household income distribution. In addition, ubprojects would be located in
communities in the first and second quintiles of theQuality of Life Index orIndice de Calidadde
Vida (ICV).
This employment-generation project is a key part of the Government of Colombia's (GOC)
evolving Red de Apoyo Social (RAS) program designed to expand and strengthen Colombia's
social safety net system, enabling it to respond faster and better during times of crisis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome/impact indicators include:
(1) percent increase in an average individual beneficiary's net annual eamings;
(2) poor (bottom quintile) workers as percent of Manos a la Obra. Proyectos Comunitarios
laborers;
(3) poor families' utilization of infrastructure built, expanded, or rehabilitated underManos a la
Obra. Proyectos Comunitarios.
The target for the first impact indicator (increase in net annual earnings of an average Project
beneficiary) is 58 percent. For the second indicator, the aim is to reach 100 percent poor workers
as a percentage of total subproject laborers, although the actual rate would probably fall in the
range of 70-1 00 percent. These impact indicators would be measured using data to be collected
by surveys of households and facilities at the beginning, middle and end of the Project.
Output indicators include:
(I) Number of low-income workers employed in the Project, total and by gender;
(2) Rate of subproject completion (hand over to the Project operator);
(3) Percent of completed public works of acceptable quality;
(4) Percent of subprojects located in poor areas (quintiles I and 2 of ICV (Indice de Calidad de
Vida));
(5) Percent users of public works funded by the Project who are poor;
(6) Leverage: ratio of total cost of subprojects relative to their public fundinig;
(7) Efficiency of employment program (value of salaries received by workers/total government
- 2 -



cost of project);
(8) Labor intenisity of the subprojects.
The most important output indicators that the Project would use to assess its bottom-line
performance are: (1) the number of low-income workers employed and (2) the rate of project
completion. The targets for these performance measures are the employment of 150,000 workers
and 100 percent completion rate of subprojects, respectively. These indicators would be measured
at least aniually.
Informationi regarding the performance and impact of the Project would be drawn from its
monitoring system, external audits, and external impact evaluation based primarily on surveys of
households and facilities. For more details, seeAnnex 1: Project Design Summary and
corresponding attachment on monitoring and evaluation.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107-CO                Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The CAS Progress Report dated November 1, 1999 states that "in order to alleviate the impact of
the current economic crisis on the poor, the Government has identified the segments of the
population that have been hit the hardest by the crisis, including the unemployed poor, young
entrants into the labor market, female heads of households, children, the elderly, and those
displaced by the ongoing internal conflict; these people are mostly in the poorest two deciles of
the population. In response to the problems of these vulnerable groups, the Government is now
designing, together with the Bank and the IDB, programs to provide basic social services targeted
to this population." The above CAS report further states that the Bank is "undertaking
operational and analytical work to support the Government's effort to ameliorate the social impact
of the currenit economic crisis on the poor... [It] is preparing two lending operations to support
immediate strengtheniing and expansion of the social safety net framework (e.g. protection of the
vulnerable by creating jobs and training, low-income housing, and providing safe water and
sanitation)."
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Colombia is currently experiencing one of the most difficult periods of its recent history, and its
most severe economic crisis in over sixty years. Economic activity is expected to have declined
by 4.5 percent in 1999 and the fiscal deficit to have surpassed 6 percent of GDP in 1999. While
the recession has negatively affected almost all productive sectors, the impact has been
particularly severe in construction and manufacturing, whicil contracted by 24 percent and 1 7
percent respectively between the second quarters of 1998 and 1999. The economic crisis has
affected the living standards of Colombians, especially the poor, and raises important issues for
the social sectors.
-3 -



Main sector issues
High unemployment rate. The economic crisis has led to an unemployment rate of 20 percent
in urban areas in September 1999. This rate is the highest in Colombia's recorded history and far
above its historical rate of 1 I percent. Unemployment has affected workers across the board, but
some groups are more severely affected that others. For example, unemployment is higher among
women than men (23.2 percent vs. 16.4 percent). It is highest for those in the 15-19 year
age-group (36.7 percent) and descends steeply and continuously with age, reaching 8.7 percent
for those 60-69 years of age. In terms of educational attainment, workers who have not
completed secondary school suffer the highest rates (19.1 percent) of unemployment, while those
without any education whatsoever and those with completed college experience the lowest rates
(1 2.4 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively). Unemployment is most severe in urban areas. In
terms of geographic distribution, more than 80 percent of the unemployed are located in 78
municipalities, each with a population of 100,000 or more.
Increased poverty and worsening income distribution. While the economic crisis affects
people in all socioeconomic strata, it has had a particularly devastating impact on those living
below or close to the poverty line. This group is in a particularly precarious situation due to its
limited human capital and inability to compete in the labor market during times of recession. In
addition, since people in this group possess few physical assets and financial savings, the loss of a
job may lead to the disappearance of their sole source of income. Finally, the lack of
unemployment insurance makes the poor particularly vulierable to the economic crisis.
The reduction in income of the economically vulnerable families has led to a dramatic increase il
poverty rate and worsening of income distribution. In this regard, data indicate that the recession
has wiped out all of the gains of the first part of the present decade in terms of poverty reduction.
During the second half of this decade, extreme poverty-defined in terms of minimum food
intake-in the urban areas has increased by more than 4 percentage poinlts, reaching 1 8.2 percent
in the first quarter of 1999. During the same period, poverty (measured by domestic standards)
increased by seven points, reaching a level of 60.4 percent.
With the high unemployment rate, income inequality rose dramatically from 1997 to 1999. The
relative earnings of the richest quintile with respect to the poorest went from 13.6 times in 1995
to 21.8 times in 1998; the Gini coefficient rose correspondingly from 0.50 to 0.55. While the
income of the fifth quintile grew by more than 50 percent between 1990 and 1998, the poorest
quintile suffered a net loss of 20 percent during the same period. Overall, as a result of the
current economic recession, the welfare level of the poorest quintile is substantially below that
enjoyed by the same group two decades ago.
Decline in living standards and human/social capital investments In the short-term, the
income reduction experienced by Colombia's poor has directly affected their nutrition, access to
healtlh services and education. Recent surveys in urban areas found that Colombians are reducing
their food intake at all income levels, especially among the poorest quintile. More than half (52
percent) of the households in this quintile have reduced expenditure on food items. In addition,
-4 -



preliminary results of a World Bank study in Cali show that 61 percent of the households of the
bottom quintile have suffered from hunger during the past year. Furthermore, the rise in
unemployment has led to a huge reduction in the number of workers affiliated with the
contributive health insuranice system. The decline appears to be more than 25 percent in the last
year alone.
In the medium and longer term, income reduction may negatively affect human capital,
perpetuating the vicious cycle of poverty. Students who withdraw from school to contribute to
family income, for example, are unlikely to return to school. Their educational attainment is thus
reduced and their human capital seriously endangered. In the case of the unemployed, long
periods outside the labor market reduce future employability and also contribute to the
deterioration of human capital.
Finally, the high unemployment rate, the increase in poverty and the worsening of incoile
distribution combined can seriously damage the country's social capital. As highlighted in the
recent Bank report, Managing the Social Dimension of Crises. Good Practices in Social Policy,
econiomic crises could provoke "breakdowns in family and social structures that can lead to
permanenet declines in social cohesion and rises in family and communal violence". In Colombia,
where violence and social cohesion are already serious issues, this effect is of great concern.
Budgetary reduction and adequacy of social spending. While the need for alleviating poverty
and protecting human and social capital is expanding and has become more urgent, the budget in
contrast has become tighter due to the fiscal deficit problem. In this regard, in its effort to
implement the needed fiscal adjustment measures, GOC has committed itself to a 7 percent real
reduction in its budget for 2000 as compared with its 1999 budget. Reduction in public spending
could have serious social consequences and could hurt vulnerable groups, depending on how the
budget is adjusted.
In this regard, there is concern about the budget of the social sector programs in view of the fiscal
adjustments. lImprovements in health, education and social assistance programs would be difficult
to bring about without adequate funding. During the 1990's, public expenditure on the social
sectors as a proportion of GDP has more than doubled, increasing from 3.8 percent of GDP in
1990 to a projected 7.7 percent for 1999. (As defined here, public social expenditures comprise
expenditures on health, education, the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar(ICBF), and
the national training institute (SENA); they do not include expenditures on pensions.) Despite
this dramatic increase, however, the level of public social expenditure in Colombia remains low by
Latin American standards.
Government strategy. To deal with the economic crisis and mitigate its social consequences,
GOC has adopted a strategy that has two main parts. First, the Government will implement fiscal
adjustments and economic reforms to achieve stability and sustainable growth. This objective is
fundamental to poverty reduction and the long-term improvement of living standards of the poor.
It is also critical to the GOC's ability to strengthen, expand and maintain an adequate social safety
net in the long run. Second, acknowledging the urgency of alleviating the social consequences of
the economic crisis and fiscal adjustments, GOC has established the aforementionedRed de
-5 -



Apoyo Social (RAS) to cushion their impact on the welfare of the poor and vulnerable population.
The RAS complements the objectives and social policies established in the National Development
Plan 1999-2002, which seeks economic and social changes that would promote the establishment
of peace in Colombia. The RAS would have three major elements: (i) a community works
program called Manos a la Obra, which aims to provide temporary employment to poor,
unemployed, unskilled workers; (ii) a conditional cash subsidy program for poor families that
would give cash assistance to the poor provided that they keep their children in school and
provide them with basic preventive health care; and (iii) a training/apprenticeship program for
young adults based on competitive bidding among private firms. To implement the RAS, GOC is
determined to spend an additional 0.3 percent of GDP per year (about US$250-$300 million
aninually), over and above current public social expenditures, to be targeted to the provision of
social safety net programs during the next three years (2000-2002).
The Bank, IDB, and CAF have pledged to support the program through a series of lending
operations and analytical studies. In addition to support for this employment-generation project,
the Bank's strategy includes support for a future conditional income transfer project and analytical
work to support protection of the most vulnerable groups during this crisis. Bank support is
expected to be complemented by an IDB loan of US$250.0 million, prepared in close
collaboration with the Bank, to support employment generation, welfare assistance initiatives, and
a pilot training program for young adults.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Alleviation of unemployment and its effects on the poor. The proposed Project would
conitribute to alleviation of the social and economic consequences of unemployment on poor
families through the workfare program, Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios. This
iitiative, which is modeled after Argentina's successful Trabajar program  would help families
obtain additional income in a way that would encourage their work ethic and promote self-worth.
GOC has clearly indicated that it values highly the impact of productive employment in restoriig
the self-worth of the unemployed and in diminishing violence and other anti-social behavior
caused by unemployment.
Temporary employment generation is justified, considering that the factors underlying the current
high unemployment rate are unlikely to be resolved in the short run. Colombian workers are
caught between the largest post-depression recession in the country's history and a dramatically
expandinig workforce of secondary wage earners and migrants being driven from rural areas by
increasing violence. In addition, there are potential distortions in the labor market that appear
difficult to eliminate. Minimum wages were binding in 1998 and, due to serious over-prediction
of inflation, were raised by almost 9.2 percent in real terms in 1999. Though the unionized sector
is small, the uncertain and violent climate of many Colombian cities gives the ulliolns ilfluence
amounting to veto power over any downward revision in wages. A reform attempting a 9
percentage point reduction in non-wage benefits consisting of contributions to the inefficient
programs of national training and social welfare was stymied in 1998 and seems unlikely in the
near future. In either case, at an own-wage elasticity of 0.4, real labor costs would have to fall at
- 6 -



least 30 percent to return the country's historic rate of unemployment, a scenario that seems
unlikely in the present situation. In fact, a recent decision by the Constitutional Court obligated
GOC to raise the minimum wage by at least as much as the previous year's inflation. This makes
it virtually impossible to decrease the real minimum wage in the short term, regardless of events in
the labor market. This has meant that with a GOC decree to increase the minimum wage by 10
percent, and with the 1999 inflationi of 9.2 percent, the real minimum wage has increased by 0.8
percent.
It should be stressed, however, that the employment-generation project does not pretend to
provide long-term solutions to the unemployment problem; rather, it would help the poor weather
the crisis until the economy recovers. For a medium- and long-term solution to unemployment,
the GOC needs to implement prudent macroeconomic policy and undertake financial and other
reforms such as those outlined in the CAS, the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, and the IMF
Letter of Intent of 1999. GOC would also have to address minimum wage determination and
other labor market issues.
Other strategic choices considered
(a) Financing a diverse set of existing programs: It was considered initially to finance a variety
of old and new projects, which included public infrastructure projects to generate employment,
initiatives for micro, small and medium scale enterprises, micro-credit, soup kitchens, expansioni
of ICBF program for 0-2 year olds, education loans, and social programs for senior citizens. This
proposal was rejected because it was unfocused and was deemed too complicated, risky and time
consuming to prepare.
(b) Sequencing: The option was considered to include both the workfare and conditional subsidy
to poor famnilies in a single loan operation, in order to assist not only able-bodied poor workers,
but also families that could not take advantage of public employment programs (e.g., those
headed by mothers, the elderly). This option was rejected on the grounds that Project
implementation would be too complicated, which would hilder the ability of GOC to respond
quickly to the urgent needs of the unemployed poor. The choice was made instead to proceed first
with the employment-generation project, which could be prepared quickly, while concurrently
preparing a conditional subsidy project, which would require more time in preparation.
(c) Urban focus: While it was recognized that many poor people reside in rural areas, it was
decided that the Project should focus on urban areas, because the unemployed poor are
concentrated there.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of three components, as shown in the table below. The first component,
Manos a la Obra Subprojects, would finance the salaries of unskilled workers hired under small
- 7 -



community works projects and, for some municipalities, a portion of the materials needed for
constructioni. Of the amount allocated to this component, up to US$15 million could be used to
finanice up to 40 percent of the materials requirements of subprojects eligible for material
financing. Eligibility for material financing is limited to very poor municipalities that cannot afford
to pay for the required materials. All subprojects would be approved in accordance with the
procedures and criteria established in the Operations Manual. The Project Management
componenit would finance the operational costs of the temporary National Coordinating Unit
(NCU). Finally, the Monitoring and Evaluation component would finance the external review and
evaluation of the performance and impact of the project.
1. Manos a la Obra: Proyectos                       180.00       93.3     90.00       90.0
Comunitarios Subprojects*
2. Project Management                                  8.62        4.5      5.74       5.7
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                           0.79        0.4      0.69       0.7
4. Unallocated                                         2.57        1.3      2.57       2.6
Total Project Costs                  191.98       99.5     99.00      99.0
Front-end fee                    1.00        0.5      1.00        1.0
Total Financing Required                   192.98     100.0    100.00      100.0
* Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comnunitarios Sub-Projects comprises of Materials (US$15 million) and Salaries subsidies
(US$75 miilion).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed Project seeks to establish the knowledge and institutional capacity necessary to
establish a safety net program with efficient institutional arrangements for mitigating the negative
effects of widespread unemployment in the poorest sector of society. Toward this end, the
Project would support the development of appropriate rules and guidelines governing public
works employment-generationi programs. It would also establish a new methodology for
geographic targeting that would be used to rank localities by their socioeconomic indicators and
as an input for a new system of choosing, evaluating and monitoring public works projects for
poor communities. The new methodology, the ICV (Indice de Calidad de Vida), is based on
census data, which pennits its disaggregation to small geographical units, including municipalities
and neighborhoods within municipalities. According to the calculations of DNPMisi6n Social,
the ICV is a very good predictor of household consumption, with a correlation of 0.936.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project would generate several benefits. First, it would provide temporary employment for
unskilled workers in the bottom income quintile-and income to their families. Second, by
employing workers in socially productive activities, the Project could help restore the self-esteem
of unemployed workers, reduce their frustration, and prevent violence. Finally, the public works
financed by the Project would help improve basic services to poor communities and offer the
opportunity to build their social capital.
-8 -



Beneficiaries and targeting mechanism. The benefits of this Project would be directed towards
the bottom quintile of the population. To implement this objective, subproject employment would
be limited to workers in SISBEN categories I and 2 (i.e., the bottom income quintile).
Furthermore, the public works to be financed by the Project would be located in communities in
the first and second quintiles of the ICV (a new methodology for classifying neighborhoods within
municipalities according to socio-economic characteristics). This methodology is more accurate
thani the current approach based on Servicios Pzulicos Strata. In order to maximize the number
of workers benefited and to discourage employment of better-off workers, the weekly subsidy per
worker would be limited to 70 percent of normal job hours per week.
Employment impact. The employment effect of the Project, both direct and indirect (multiplier)
effects, have been calculated. The indirect employment effects consist of the additional demand
for labor generated by the increase in the consumption expenditures of workers as a result of
wages earned from subprojects.
The number of full-year jobs with six hours of work per day is estimated at 90,000, assuming that
the cost of materials is fully financed by subproject proponents. This implies a three
percentage-point reduction in the unemployment rate of the bottom income quintile (from 18.1
percent to about 15.1 percent). Considering the estimated amount available for workers' salaries
(US$90 million) and factoring in possible indirect Keynesian multiplier effects (assuming
multipliers between 2.0-4.0) the workfare program could generate approximately
105,000-154,000 jobs.
It is possible that municipalities might simply substituteManos a la Obra: Proyectos
Comunitarios subprojects for others in their pipeline that would have been undertaken without the
Project subsidy. While additionality cannot be guaranteed by the program, the strong political
support for employment-generation projects at both municipal and national level suggests that the
subprojects would be incremental to existing investment plans. This would be carefully monitored
durinig implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall Project implementation responsibility. The Administrative Department under the
Office of the President, through the Peace Investment Fund (DAPRE-FIP), would be
responsible for implementation of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios and other Red
de Apoyo Social (RAS) projects. Day-to-day operations would be handled by a National
Coordinating Unit (NCU), to be set up under DAPRE-FIP with full-time staff, which would
operate with relative autonomy. The NCU would be responsible for ensuring implementation
of project activities according to agreed criteria and guidelines and for loan administration,
including procurement, disbursement and accounting. DNP would be responsible for
monitoring and technical review of the Project's progress.
As DAPRE-FIP would be responsible for other programs with different objectives, agenda,
and governing procedures, it has been agreed that the RAS would be maintained operationally
and financially separate from the other DAPRE-FIP programs. To this end, the RAS would
-9-



have its owii Bank accounts and accounting system. Moreover, a Steering Committee, which
would comprise highi-level representatives of stakeholders such as the Departments of
Planning, Education and Health, as well as ICBF and SENA, would be established to ensure
that RAS operations are technically sound and well coordinated. The principal responsibilities
of the Committee are to provide technical orientation, coordination of the various RAS
projects, and supervision of their performance.
Most aspects of the Project would be carried out through outsourcing arrangements with
several national and sub-national entities. These include: (i)FINDETER, a public
development bank that provides financing to subnational entities, for subproject evaluation
and selection; (ii) NGOs and workers' cooperatives (Empresas Asociativas de Trabajo or EAT
s) acting as subproject implementing entities for subprojects and selecting/paying their
workers; and (iii) a Management Information System (MIS) company for keeping track of
subprojects and workers. Municipal and departmental governments, NGOs, EATs and public
service companies are eligible to propose subprojects. In the case of subprojects proposed by
municipalities, the municipality would choose an NGO or EAT to act as a Subproject
Implementing Entity (a measure intended to reduce the risk of political manipulation and
corruption).
Employment and payment of workers. An output-based contract would be signed for each
subproject between the NCU and the Subproject Implementing Entity (SIE). Under the contract,
the SIE would be responsible for satisfactory completion of subprojects and would receive fees
for mnanagement services. The SIE would contract with local contractors, who would select and
pay tle workers according to Colombian labor laws. Only workers with "cedula" (national
identity number), required by law of persons 18 years old and over, could be hired. (The
Governmenit will facilitate rapid acquisition of valid identification cards, when necessary). No
employer-employee relationship between the Project and the workers will be established either
explicitly or implicitly. Subproject Implementing Entities would receive disbursements for
salaries of workers under approved subprojects and, where approved, a portion of the cost of
materials.
Guidelines and Manual of Operations. The functions and responsibilities of the above
project participants would be governed by the Operations Manual (Project File), which
includes the procedures, guidelines, criteria, staffing and assignment of responsibilities
regarding subproject identification, preparation, selection, supervision, and reporting-as well
as procurement and disbursement. The experience of the Bank in similar programs in other
countries (e.g., Argentina) has been used to improve such tasks as program definition, scope,
administrative systems, responsibilities, and monitoring. Submission of the final draft of the
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
Apart from various measures aimed at ensurinig active beneficiary participation in the choice of
subprojects and workers, several evaluation and screening systems would be established to
ensure that the works would be technically sound and that they would comply with all of the
applicable environmental, operational and other criteria. Professionals will evaluate all
subprojects according to the methodology specified in the Operations Manual. The
- 10-



assessment would include economic, technical, financial, institutional, environmental and
social aspects. Guidelines on information required to be submitted with proposals are detailed
in the Operations Manual.
A list of pre-qualified NGOs would be established by the NCU based on agreed criteria to be
included in the Operations Manual. The list will be updated regularly. Subproject funding
would require an agreement among DAPRE-FIP, the proponent and its selected SIE in
accordance with the Operations Manual. All agreements would adhere to a model (odelo de
Convenio) acceptable to the Bank, which will be incorporated in the Operations Manual.
Financial management. The NCU will be responsible for maintaining project management
arrangements acceptable to the Bank. The NCU will initially follow SOE procedures until it is
ready to apply LACI procedures. The Operations Manual would concretely specify internal
controls over project transactions, including control procedures for project flow of funds. In
addition, the Manual would include specific administrative and accounting procedures to
assure sufficient control and accurate information. The Government has also agreed to a
time-bound action plan designed to prepare the NCU for full LACI compliance. The first
part of the action plan, which establish the capacity to ensure that Project funds can be
accounted for in a timely maner and that they will be used in accordance with the purposes of
the loan, would be completed as a condition of effectiveness.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The NCU under DAPRE-FIP
will be responsible for the management of project funds, including national counterpart funds, and
for keeping track of local counterpart resources. In order to ensure provision of accurate and
timely information about the use of project funds, the NCU would install an integrated financial
system acceptable to the Bank. This system would include planning, internal controls,
accounting, and financial reporting. The Project Chart of Accounts would be structured
accordingly.
During each year, the NCU shall prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of activities carried out
during the quarter. The formats and basis to produce those reports would be in accordance with
the Bank's Financial Management Manual and LACI procedures.
In addition to PMRs, external audits of project financial statements will be required on an annual
basis. An independenit private sector firm acceptable to the Bank will carry out the auditing of
project accounts. A specific shortlist of audit firns and Terms of Reference for audits (TOR)
would be prepared by the NCU and a no-objection letter would be issued by the Bank. The
Terns of Reference (TOR) for audits have been prepared; they would be modified, however, to
include evaluation of NGO/EAT performance based on specific audit procedures. The revised
TOR will be included in the final version of the Operations Manual.
- 11 -



D. Project Rationale
l. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Targeting. A self-targeting mechanism (applying wage rates below market minimum wage) was
considered. However, Colombia's minimum wage law does not permit this. Instead, the Project
would use the SISBEN, a proxy means-testing methodology developed and in use in Colombia
that is considered the best in Latin America, to identify the eligible population of very poor
families. The marginal cost to the Projectof using SISBEN is expected to be relatively small, as
the system is already in use nationally for the identification of beneficiaries of health insurance and
other social assistance programs. (Some improvements and updating of SISBEN would need to
be made; such improvements would also help improve targeting under existing programs and
would be required for the conditional-transfer program under preparation.)
Use of Public Services Classification for identification of poor communities This method,
consisting of the socioeconomic classification of municipalities based on data used by public
utilities companies in establishing their tariff structure stratification, was rejected as an inadequate
method of identifying beneficiary communities. Instead, the Project will use a new classification
system based on the Quality of Life Index (Indice de Calidad de Vida (ICV)), a more sensitive
index that is based on more precise variables.
Financing of construction of private houses under the project. This was considered but was
rejected because such subprojects would reduce the Project's employment impact and benefits to
the poor. Instead, financing of housing subprojects would be limited to pilot initiatives that would
test innovative approaches to low-income housing. No more than 5% of total cost (including both
loan and municipal allocations) is to be used for housing subprojects.
Financing of subproject materials costs. It was proposed that loan proceeds be used
exclusively for workers' salaries, in order to maximize the employment impact of the loan and
simplify project design and implementation. This alternative was rejected, because of concernis
that very poor municipalities may not be able to provide counterpart funding for the materials and
might therefore be excluded from participation in the Project. As a compromise, it was decided
that a maximum of 15% of the loan amount could be made available for the financing of materials
for municipalities identified as having inadequate resources.
Institutional arrangements. It was considered desirable to use existing organizations to
manage the Project. Unfortunately, there were serious concerns about the two existing
organizations that might logically undertake project implementation. The first, theRed de
Solidaridad Social was rejected because it has shown inadequate strategic and programmatic
focus, a lack of capacity to guarantee subproject quality and retain qualified personnel, and a high
vulnerability to political pressure. The second institution,FINDETER, has a great deal of
experience and contacts with municipal authorities and other sub-national entities as well as a
decentralized structure giving it a presence in many target areas. At present, however, the
Government's strategic goal is to develop FINDETER's role as a second-tier bank, and giving it
responsibility as implementing agency of this project was considered to run counter to that goal.
- 12-



In order to benefit from FINDETER's institutional capacity, however, it was agreed that it would
assist in implementationi by carrying out the evaluation of subprojects according to agreed-upon
technical criteria and providing technical assistance to teams assisting in the preparation of
subprojects.
Creation of a new autonomous unit as implementing agency. In the absence of existing
institutions to undertake implementations, a second option was to create a new unit such as
FOREC, the agency especially created to coordinate execution of the earthquake reconstruction
project. In view of the urgency of initiating project implementation, this option was rejected
because it would require legislation that would require excessive time to obtain.
Establishment of a project coordination unit under existing agencies. Having decided onl the
alternative to establish a temporary project coordinating unit (NCU), several options were
considered regarding the location of the unit. The first option was to establish the NCU under
DNP, which was considered relatively well-insulated from political manipulation. It was rejected,
however, because of concern that the role of DNP as a national planning entity would be
compromised by involvement in project implementation and that it would be drawn into an area
beyond its expertise. The alternative chosen was to place the NCU under the Investment for
Peace Fund (Fondo de la Inversi6n para la Paz (FIP)), recently established under the
Administrative Department of the Office of the President (DAPRE). Under this arrangemenit, the
Red de Apoyo Social, of which the Project is an important part, would be formally linked to the
Government's comprehensive development strategy called Plan Colombia. With this linkage, the
Governmenit wishes to emphasize Plan Colombids character as an integrated and balanced
strategy aimed not only at suppressing drug traffic and reducing related violence, but also at
alleviating the negative impact of the economic crisis on the poor and vulnerable population.
Additionally, the Government hopes to attract financial and political support for Plan Colombia
from donor countries. The above proposal has several advantages. First, it would ensure strong
support at the highest level of Government. Second, it would allow easier and faster
implemenitation of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios since the FIP is a system of
accounts governed by special procurement regulations that could be used by the Project, provided
their actual specific application is acceptable to the Bank. The decision to locate project
management responsibility under DAPRE-FIP was taken after thorough discussion with the
Government and Bank management of the risks involved (see Section F (Sustainability and
Risks)).
- 13-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                                  (Prjt        fP8R} Ratings
V_________ :            ;gi :iE :  E (Bank-financed projects onIyK
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- Integrated youth development    Youth Development (Ln.             S             S
2920-CO)
- Poverty reduction and peace     Magdalena Medio (Ln.               S             S
4371-CO,)
- Development in areas of conflict,    Peasant Enterprises Zones     S             S
particularly in rural areas       Development (Ln. 4364-CO)
- Decentralized education project  Antioquia Education (Ln.          S             S
4243-CO)
- Municipal managed education project Pasto Education (Ln. 4242-CO)  S             S
- Rural development               Rural Development Investment      S              S
Program (Ln.3250-CO)
- Reconstruction of social and    Earthquake Recovery (Ln.
economic infrastructure in rural areas  7009-CO, approved
03/21/2000)
- Rural development, education    Rural Education (Ln.7012-CO,
approved 04/11/2000)
- Transfer of resources to decentralized Decentralized Human Capital
public entities for investment in human  Development (P068762, under
development                        preparation)
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank
- Poverty                          Social Solidarity Network
(889/OC)
- Poverty                          Pacific Coast Sustainable
Development (926/SF)
- Violence                         Peaceful Coexistence and
Citizens' Security
(1085-1088/OC)
USAID
- Rural poverty/ Drug interdiction  A project focused on "displaced
persons" is being considered.
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There is extensive experience with labor-intensive public works programs aimed at generating
employment. The lessons from this experience are succinctly summarized in the aforementioned
IBRD paper, "Managing the Social Dimensions of the Crises: Good Practices in Social Policy."
These lessons, which are reflected in the design of the Project and the choice of workfare as an
instrument for strengthening Colombia's social safety net, are:
(i)  Workfare provides incentives to work and maintains the positive features of workforce
participation, thereby contributing to social cohesion.
(ii) Workfare programs can be considered cost-effective only if the public works provide
substantial benefits in themselves, in addition to serving as a self-targeting mechaniism for
distributing cash in the form of wages (or food, in food-for-works programs). It is
possible to target the works perforned so that the assets created benefit the poor in the
long run.
(iii) Although it is possible to achieve good rates of return with labor-intensive methods, the
labor share is likely to be no more than 40-60 percent in a large portfolio of sound
projects.
(iv) The higher the share of unskilled labor in total costs, the greater will be the contribution
to current benefits.
(v)  If the wage is set at a low level (at or below the effective market wage for heavy,
unskilled labor), only the poor will choose to work on the jobs, and errors of inclusion
will tend to be low.
Additional lessons are further reflected in the decision to keep the objective of the Project
limited in scope and to consider under a separate project complementary approaches, such as
conditionial income transfers, to both broaden and strengthen Colombia's social safety net.
These lessons are:
(vi) Labor-intensive public works programs have rarely employed a very large fraction of the
poor. For example, the Maharashtra Employment Guarantee scheme in the 1 980s,
widely regarded as one of the most successful and relatively large public works scheme,
did not cover more that 18 percent of households in the bottom income quintile.
(vii) Workfare programs do not help all groups: they are not suitable instruments to reach the
elderly or children, they usually do not reach the working poor, for whom the
opportunity costs of participating are higher, and explicit design features need to be
incorporated to achieve substantial rates of participation by women.
The above lessons are consistent with the observations of the Colombian teamn that went to
Argentinia to study thiat country's Trabajar program during project preparation.
-15-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower's commitment has been demonstrated by the diligence and care shown by the
Government in preparing the Project, and its commitment to ensure that it will have the necessary
budgetary authority to make payments without delay. In addition, the President has made a
personal commitment to ensure that the project has the support needed for implementation by
placing project coordination under the Office of the President.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support adds value in several areas. First, the Government applied many good design
features into the Project, building on the Bank's international experience and lessons learned from
workfare projects worldwide, including Trabajar. As mentioned, the Government sent a study
tour, arranged by the Bank, to Argentina to learn from Trabajar. Second, the Bank provided
technical expertise that was useful in the discussion of the various alternatives considered above.
Finally, Bank's support for the project during implementation would assist the Government in
ensuring that the technical criteria are applied appropriately and that any adjustments made to
project design take into account the most recent experience in similar projects.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
*0 Cost benefit  NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A. Requirement of cost benefit and ERR: not applicable.
B. The conclusions of the cost-effectiveness analysis (see Project File) can be summarized as
follows:
(i) It has been shown that a workfare project can be cost-effective if the benefit to the poor
(in terms of current income) per unit cost of making the transfer falls within the range
observed for cash transfers, food assistance and other social welfare programs in various
countries (Ravallion, 1998). The degree of cost-effectiveness depends on the assumption
one makes regarding future returns to assets created by the Project. In Argentina's
Trabajar, for example, the increase in incomes of the poor relative to total project cost is
about 0.40, assuming that the subprojects' benefits are sufficient to cover their cost and
that there is no explicit attempt to target poor areas. Using this estimate, Trabajarlooks
attractive compared to other programs. For cash transfer programs in Eastern Europe,
for instance, the proportion of the public transfer going to the poor ranges from 19 to 58
percent. In a number of developing countries, the total transfer to the poor as a
proportion of total cost under targeted food programs ranges from 19 to 93 percent.
Trabajar's benefit/cost ratio, however, comes down to 0.20 when only current income
benefits are included. In this regard, it can be argued that 0.20 is the more relevant
- 16-



estimate since families in dire need of current income would tend to discount future
returns heavily. In this case, workfare in general would appear to be only marginally
cost-effective.
(ii) Manos a la Obra. Proyectos Comunitarios could also be cost-effective in the above
sense. Its level of cost-effectiveness could even be deemed largely comparable to the
cash transfer and food programs, if one considers that in Colombia the cost of materials
for municipal government subprojects would largely come from earmarked budgets that
would be used for public works even without the Project. Its cost-effectiveness falls
dramatically, however, if the Project pays for payroll "taxes" for workers' non-wage
fringe benefits, which they are unlikely to enjoy (at least, not in the short-run).
(iii) The validity of assessing a workfare program solely on the basis of the current income it
provides poor families has been questioned for its narrow definition of benefits. For
example, it does not include the future returns to the assets being created by the program.
In addition, the methodology does not take into account the value that society puts on
employmentper se and its positive effects on a person's self-worth and standing as a
peaceful and productive citizen. Furthermore, there is a disconnect between the above
methodology and the objective of supporting productive purposes. This implies that
project evaluation should focus primarily on the benefits arising from productive activities
and that transfers are justifiable only to the extent that they improve productivity through
improvements in human, social, and physical capital.
(iv) As a supplement to the above analysis, the mission examined international evidence
regarding the cost of creating a temporary job under a workfare program -- normalized
by GDP per person as a rough indicator of country productivity. The conclusion is that if
the Project does not finance non-wage benefits, it would be within international
experience in ten-ns of this cost indicator (see Annex 4 and Project File). In light of the
above conclusions, the Project does not finance workers' fringe benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
(1) NPV and FRR analyses: not applicable
(2) Availability of Municipal Co-financing Funds. Investigation revealed that, in the
aggregate, eligible proponents would be able to provide sufficient counterpart funds to finance
material requirements of subprojects. This capacity is unevenly distributed, however, and small
municipalities do not appear to have the resources to participate in the Project. Since the large
and medium-sized municipalities have a concentration of poor unemployed, it is appropriate for
thie majority of project resources to be channeled to subprojects located in them. In order to
ensure that poor in less dense areas are not excluded, however, up to 15% of project funds could
be targeted to the provision of materials in the smallest and poorest municipalities.
It is essential to note that estimates of financial capacity refer only to municipal governments; they
do not refer to local public utilities (empresaspziblicas descentralizadas), which may qualify as
proponents, nor do they include in-kind contributions of materials by project proponents.
- 17-



Anecdotal evidence suggests that actual cash disbursements by municipalities often constitute less
than half of total investment contributions, suggesting that provision of materials for subprojects
will not constitute a problem in nearly all cases.
(3) Financial sustainability and selection of subprojects. The criteria for eligibility and the
process of evaluation and selection of subproject proposals would include financial analysis for
certain types of subprojects to ensure financial sustainability of operations and maintenance of
subprojects (see Annex 2).
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is manageable:
(I) Counterpart funds for the Project would constitute less than 1.4% of the total projected
capital expenditures of the local non-financial public sector (which includes the departmental and
municipal governments, and local non-financial enterprises comprising water, telephone and
electricity companies).
(2) The annual amount needed for recurrent expenditures arising from the subprojects would be
about 2.0 percent of subproject investment (Annex 5). Subproject appraisals would include
verification that these recurrent costs will be manageable by the responsible entities.
3. Technical:
All subprojects will be evaluated byFINDETER before being submitted to DAPRE-FIP for
approval according to processes and guidelines acceptable to the Bank. These processes and
guidelines are detailed in the project's Operations Manual and are summarized in Annex 2.
Trained professionals on FINDETER staff (regional level) would evaluate each subproject by
usinig a methodology that covers economic, technical, financial, institutional, environmental, and
social aspects of the subproject and incorporates checks on costs, using a data base containing
information on unit costs for similar types of subprojects. Appraisal formats and guides were
developed based on the experience of the Argentina's Trabajar program, various social projects
currently being implemented in Colombia (Red de Solidaridad Social, Banco de Proyectos,
Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n) and the previous experience of FINDETER. Each trained
FINDETER appraiser is expected to be able to evaluate between 20 and 40 subprojects per
month. Details on the subproject evaluation methodology are contained in the Operations
Manual.
An inspector (interventor) would verify Government-owned subprojects and ensure compliance
with Colombia's civil works regulations. In addition, the Project would contract firms to
supervise all subprojects at least three times during their execution.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The assessment of the various alternative institutional arrangements is summarized in Section D,
Project Rationale. The general conclusion is that the institutional structure and associated
- 18-



arrangements are adequate to implement the Project. Moreover, GOC ownership of the Project
and continued Presidential support are assured under these arrangements.
4.2 Project management:
see Section D and Annex 2
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no significant procurement issues. Nevertheless, a procurement plan has been agreed to
ensure smooth operations and compliance with Bank procurement guidelines (see Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was conducted by a Bank financial management specialist.
Based on his assessment, the Operations Manual has been improved to ensure control,
accountability and transparency in the use of Project funds. A time-bound action plan has been
agreed with the Government to address remaining issues. Completion of several actions would be
a conditioni of effectiveness; completion of the action plan would make ensure LACI eligibility.
(see Section D)
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
During project preparation, Bank environmental specialists and consultants worked closely with
the borrower to ensure that the Project's design is consistent with Bank environmental guidelines
and policies. The borrower has completed an Environmental Guidebook (EG), which identifies
key environimental issues and sets in place a process to ensure compliance with Colombian laws
and mitigation of potential environmental impacts. The Borrower has also included detailed
environimilental criteria in the two key subproject documents: theManual de Evaluaci6n Ex-Ante
de Proyectos and the Manual de Preparaci6n y Presentaci6n de Proyectos Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios. A summary of the EG can be found in Annex I 1.
Overall, it is unlikely that the Project will have significantly negative environmental impact,
considering that it will support only small community works widely dispersed throughout the
country. On the contrary, the Project could have a positive environmental impact, as it includes
among eligible projects works to improve community sanitation, parks, and the urban
environment. Nevertheless, the project would undertake several measures to reduce certain
(albeit, small) risks. These measures, which are discussed in Annex 11, include: (a) a list of
subprojects that are ineligible for funding for environmental reasons; (b) establishment of an
environmentally friendly evaluation, supervision, and monitoring of eligible subprojects; (c)
training of evaluators and supervisors; (d) hiring of an environmental consultant at the NCU; and
(e) allocation of Project funds to cover the cost of the above-mentioned training and consultant as
well as of disseminating environmental guidelines to relevant Project participants.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 19-



The borrower has completed an Environmental Guidebook (EG), which identifies key
enviro-nmenital issues and sets in place a process to ensure compliance with Colombian laws along
with mitigatilg potential environmental impacts. The Project will provide the necessary resources
to carry out the environimenital training of subproject evaluators and the implementationi of all
environmental activities identified in the EG. These arrangements are adequate to comply with
Bank guidelinies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
A final draft of the EG was discussed with the Bank's Environmental Specialist during the Project
Appraisal Mission. Filal adjustments were made in order to be consistenit with the Project's
institutionial arrangements, along with specify'ig the resource requirements to implement
enviro-nmenital activities identified in the EG.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultationi that were used and which groups were consulted?
The main institutions charged with implementing Colombia's environmental laws were all
consulted during project preparation, including the Ministry of Environment (ME), the Urban
Environimenital Agency (Bogota), and the Regional Corporations (CARs) in the 9 departments
where the Project will be implemented. Their opinions and recommendations are included in the
final version of the EG. In addition, the ME and the CARs have produced sectoral guidebooks
for environmenit best practice, which will be disseminated to subproject proponenlts. Depending
on the type of activities to be supported by subprojects and the degree of expected environmenital
impact, these agencies may be involved in the environmental screening process.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Environmental Specialist based in the NCU will be responsible for overseeing the
environmental monitoring of subprojects. Based on the initial evaluation and environimenital
categorization, subprojects will be selected for field monitoring visits. Results of those visits will
be inputted into the overall project-monitoring plan. If specific subproject's environmental
performance is inadequate, the Specialist can request that the Project's review committee be
convenied to explore potential solutionis. However, it is expected that most performance issues
can be dealt with most effectively directly with the proponent.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevanit to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 20 -



The Project is not expected to have a negative impact on any special population group.
Nevertheless, the Project will take measures to ensure adequate participation of special groups,
as explained Annex 12. These include women and indigenous peoples.
Womnen. Concern has been expressed about low participation of women in workfare programs.
There would be an assessment of the extent of women's participation and, if necessary, an
appropriate strategy to improve it would be developed. Within the first year of project
iimnplementation, the monitoring system will report the participation rate of women by region and
type of activity, so that corrective actions can be put in place as needed.
Indigenous Peoples. The participation of indigenous peoples in the Project is expected to be low,
given its concentration on large urban areas, where the presence of indigenous peoples is
extremely low. The appraisal mission looked at how their participation can be enhanced in large
urban centers. The project would develop a communications strategy suitable to these special
groups. It would explain clearly and widely how they can access project funds and what the rules
are regarding subproject proposal, evaluation, selection and approval.
Afro-Colombian Populations. Poor, Afro-Colombians unskilled workers living in urban areas
would have access to project benefits on equal terms with other eligible beneficiaries. Their
participation is expected to be high since they tend to represent a large percentage of the bottom
quintile of the income groups of the population.
Internally Displaced Groups. Adult men and women who are displaced as a consequence of the
internal conflict would have equal access to the temporary work opportunities offered by the
Project. However, there would be no special component in the Project for this sub-population, as
the Government is planning a special program under the Red de Solidaridad Social, with other
funding sources, to benefit them.
Consultations were undertaken during appraisal with representatives of all of the above
population groups, including ONIC, the national indigenous organization of Colombia, the
National Council of Afro-Colombians Populations, the National Association of Displaced
Groups, leaders of NGOs specialized in issues of gender, ethnicity and displaced populations,
and other relevant stakeholders. One objective of these consultations was to find effective ways
for these sub-populations to access Project benefits (Annex 12).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders of the Project are poor workers, municipalities, NGOs and other non-profit
organizations. The use of a mix of implementing agencies, combining public and
non-governmental organizations, together with the project's demand-based approach and the
decentralization of project implementation provides a framework that is conducive to a high level
of social participation. However, this mix must be complemented by the participation of the
local people in the identification and selection of the proposed public works for several reasons.
First, local participation in subproject proposals builds ownership and interest, which are critical
- 21 -



variables for the sustainability of community infrastructure works. Second, by financing
community infrastructure the program provides an opportunity for developing human and social
capital. Some ideas on how to address this issue were explored during appraisal and are
discussed in Annex 12. The mission recommended that the final version of the Operations
Manual include a requirement for proponents to describe and provide evidence on the extent of
local participation in the choice of proposed subprojects.
A critical factor to the promotion of a participatory approach is the development of an effective
information/communication strategy not only to generate public support, but also to promote
social control of project activities. For this purpose, the Project is developing such strategy with
the help of a professional consultant and is allocating funds for its completion and execution
during project implementation. Key elements of the strategy are discussed in Annex 12.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Li Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            W Yes L No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    L Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     Li Yes ZK No
EL Pest Management (OP 4.09                                        El Yes 1 No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    El Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    C Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes Z No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               LI Yes X No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.S0, OP 7.50)    LI Yes 12 No
El Priojects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         El Yes O No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 22 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This Project is a response to the sharp, temporary rise in unemployment due to the economic
crisis. Unlike standard Bank projects, therefore, Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios is
expected to fade away, as employment levels retumn to normal.
At the end of the three-year project period, it is expected that the unemployment rate would be
significantly lower than it is today, because of the reforms that the Government is currently
promoting to solve the economic crisis. These reforms, whose implementation is being facilitated
by this project, are expected to stimulate economic growth and, therefore, increase employment.
Still, it remains uncertain whether the unemployment rate will go down to historically low levels
three years from now.
If it does not, the Project if successful, would probably be continued by the Government (as has
been Argentina's experience with Trabajar)-perhaps at a scaled down level. If the
unemployment rate does decline significantly, however, a decision will need to be made on how to
make use of the "software" and experience developed by the Project to enable the Government to
more quickly respond to economic crises in the future. The bottom line is that a successful
implementation of the Project would encourage the Government to iniclude workfare (as enriched
by Colombia's experience with Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios) among its instruments
for providing emergency assistance to the poor.
The subprojects would likely be sustained after project completion. The process of identification,
evaluation, selection, implementation and supervision of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
Comunitarios subprojects is designed so that proposals that are not technically, economically, and
financially viable are screened out. Equally important, the Project would seek to encourage local
participation in the identification and preparation of proposals in order to build local ownership
and interest in completing, operating and maintaining subprojects funded by the program. Finally,
the cost of operations and maintenance of the subprojects is projected to be small on the whole
(Annex 5).
-23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk  -                  Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(1) Leakage of benefits from families in      M         (1.1) Strengthening of the procedures for
the poorest income quintile to those above              SISBEN classification and its application in the
it, if some of the weaknesses in the                    Project.
SISBEN classification system and its
application worsen.                                     (1.2) Timely evaluation of the adequacy of the
SISBEN classification system and its
application during project implementation.
(2) Insufficient concentration of             M         (2.1) Careful targeting of very poor
investments in subprojects on poor                      communities, using the Indice de Calidad de
communities and failure to choose                       Vida, an indicator that is highly correlated with
subproject outputs that are highly valued               level of consumption.
by the poor.
(2.2) Including local participation in the
proposal and design of subprojects to ensure
they are highly valued by the poor
(3) The cost per job generated is not kept    H         (3. 1) the share of administrative cost is limited
within acceptable range.                                to less than 10 percent of loan.
(3.2) the share of material cost is limited to no
more than 15 percent of loan.
(3.3) salary contribution per week has been set
below the standard minimum salary per week.
(3.4) the institutional arrangement has been
designed so that the Project is not obligated to
pay fringe benefits.
tFrom Components to Outputs
(I) Delay in the release of budget for       M          (I.] ) Special budgetary authorization for the
payment of salaries                                     Project to ensure that money is available when
needed.
- 24 -



(1.2) Payment for salary contribution to SIEs to
be delivered directly from the Special Account
through the SIIF (Sistema Integrado de
Informaci6n Financiera).
(1.3) Establishing a Special Account that
conforms to Bank standards regarding release of
funds.
(2) insufficient demand (capacity and        M         (2.1) Strong promotion activities by NCU.
willingness to pay) for the materials
needed by subprojects to be financed by                (2.2) Allocation of up to 15 percent of loan
the Project.                                           proceeds to finance a portion of the cost of
materials of subprojects proposed by the poorest
municipalities
(2.3) Careful monitoring of project
implementation indicators and supervision of
progress on the ground to device timely
corrective actions, if needed.
(3) Danger of misuse of project resources    H         (3.1) Use of non-governmental organizations as
due to political factors                               SlEs to manage salary and material subsidies
given to approved subprojects.
(3.2) Use of Operations Manual acceptable to
the Bank that clearly sets forth the "rules of the
game" regarding presentation, evaluation,
selection, supervision and implementation of
subprojects; as well as the flow of funds and
financial management control.
(3.3) Outsourcing information system and
supervision firms; as well as agreement on
regular audit and external performance
evaluation (Annex I b).
(3.4) Agreement with the Government to include
in the Operations Manual mechanisms for
strong social control of subprojects through
suitable information campaigns, keeping local
people well informed about the objectives and
rules governing the Project; and encouraging
them to voice out complaints about
implementation failures and violation of project
rules
- 25 -



((4) Implementation could be impeded by       M         (4.1) Keeping the operations of the Red de
iviolence.                                              Apoyo Social separate financially and
administratively from the other programs
(The decision to put RAS under FIP under               managed by the FIP, including the establishment
DAPRE could lead to a mistaken                         of a separate Steering Committee for the RAS
perception that RAS is part of the
Government's strategy to reduce                        (4.2) Government assurance to maintain a
narco-traffic and related guerrilla                    politically neutral public image for the Project,
activities. This perception could create               ensuring that Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
security risks for personnel implementing              Comunitarios and RAS are not associated with
the Project and Bank staff conducting                   narco-guerrilla issues, focusing the project's
supervision visits.)                                   communications strategy exclusively on its
poverty alleviation objective, and maintaining a
low profile for the Bank
Overall Risk Rating                          5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    Adoption by the Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, of an Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, the detailed procedures for the
carrying out of the Project, including: (i) the procedures for the flow of funds to
finanice subprojects, the requirements for submission of a subproject by a
proponent; (ii) the criteria and procedures for selection of subproject Implementing
Entities; (iii) the criteria for selection and financing of subprojects, including the
requirements for assessment of the economic, technical, finanicial, institutional,
environmental and social aspects of subprojects; (iv) the guidelines for mitigation
of adverse environmental impacts of subprojects; (v) the rules and requirements for
employment of temporary workers under the subprojects; (vi) the financial
management procedures for the Project; (vii) the procedures for procurement of
building materials under the subprojects; (viii) the eligibility criteria for Subproject
Implementing Entities to receive financing for building materials under subprojects;
and (ix) the model of the agreement between the DAPRE-FIP, the Subproject
Implementing Entities, and the proponents;
(b)    Signed agreement between FINDETER and DAPRE-FIP;
(c)    Establishment of the NCU and the appointment of its general coordinator, chief of
the administrative and finanicial division, accountant, procurement specialist,
environment specialist and chief of internal control, all with terms of reference and
- 26 -



qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)    Installationi in the NCU of a transitory management information system (including
the Project's financial management system), satisfactory to the Bank, for use not
longer than six months after the Effective Date, and the submission of the design
and an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the installation of an enhanced
management information system; and
(e)    Establishment of the Steering Committee and appointnent of its members.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
X I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Q 4. The-following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1.    Final version of Manual of Operations satisfactory to the Bank;
2.     Terms of reference for outsourcing of MIS design and operations satisfactory to the Bank
as well as description of the transitory MIS for the initial stage of project implementation;
3.     Signed agreement between FINDETER and DAPRE-FIP;
4.     Establishment of Steering Committee; and
5.     Terms of Reference of key staff and their appointment satisfactory to the Bank.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Q 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Vicente B. PagZeo                 Xavier E. Coll                     Andgogolimano
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            06-untry Manager/Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Key Perfdrmance
HWierarchy of Objectives        I0dicatos             M i  0torin & Evluation       CRitical fiAsumptins
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
In pursuit of poverty reduction                                                   Development of a stronger
and social development, the                                                       social safety net would
CAS aims to strengthen                                                             alleviate poverly in the
Colombia's social safety net to                                                   short-run at the same time that
cushion the poor- and                                                             it facilitates human capital
vulnerable fiom the worst                                                          accumulation and
effects of the crisis.                                                            implementation of economic
and institutional reforms
needed to improve peace,
economic gr-owth and
reduction in income inequality
in the medium and long-runi.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Support a social safety    (1) increase in net annual  (1) external evaluation survey Increase in poveity and its
iprogram which through        earnings of average                                  human capital and social
,financing for small public   individual beneficiary                               consequences are strongly
Nworks projects provides      (target=58% increase)                               related to the rise of
tlemporary employment to poor                                                      unemployment.
workers, increases the net    (2) poor (bottom quintile)    (2) external evaluation survey
labor income of their families,    workers as % of Manos a
and prevents deterioration of    la Obra laborers
living standards in poor      (target=100%)
communities.
(3) poor families' utilization of (3) monitoring through a
infrastructure built,      facilities survey
expanded, or rehabilitated
under Manos a la Obra
(target= 100%)
- 28 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Small infrastructure projects  (I) number of low income  (I) program records and   The design of the program
and temporary jobs for poor   workers employed in the   external evaluation household results in the accurate
workeis                    project, total and by gender   survey                    targeting of benefits to poor
(total target=250,000; women                            workers, subprojects are
target=50,000; includes IDB                             concentrated on pooIr
component)                                              communities and are highly
valued by them, and the cost
(2) % of completed public    (2) monitoring through a   per job generated is kept
works of acceptable quality   facilities survey         reasonably low.
(target= 1 00%)
(3) rate of project completion  (3) program records
(handover to the project
operator) (target= 100%)
(4) % percent of projects  (4) facilities survey
located in poor areas (quintile
I and 2 of ICV)
(target= 100%)
(5) facilities survey
(5) % users of public works
funded by project who are
poor (target= 100%)
(6) external audit; financial
(6) leverage: ratio of total cost monitoring
of subprojects relative to their
public funding (target=95%)
(7) program records and
(7) efficiency of employment  external audit
program (value of salaries
received by workers/total
government cost of project)
(target=75%)
(8) program records (days
(8) labor intensity of proJects  worked by individual
workers); financial monitoring
(target=40%)                                            The project will pay less than
minimum market wage per
day and will not finance
non-wage payments for
programs that are unlikely to
benefit poor workers
-29 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
(I) Salaries of unskilled  $180 million              Monitoring system         Timely release of budget for
workers/materials                                                           the Manos a la Obra and
timely payment of salaries and
availability of materials
(2) Monitoring and Evaluation $0.79 million          External review           Sufficient demand (capacity
and willingness to pay) for the
materials needed by
subprojects to be financed by
Manos a la Obra
(3) Project Management    $11.19 million             External audit/review     Use of ProJect resources
according to agreed technical
criteria rather than political
factors
Project implementation not
impeded by violence
Attachment: Monitoring and Evaluation
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will be implemented to collect the indicators
specified in the logical framework in order to assess the project's success in achieving the desred
outcomes and impacts. The M&E system will be based primarily on an external impact evaluation
and will draw on data produced from the project's management information system (MIS),
government statistics, project audits and consultations with policymakers.
The M&E strategy will produce results at three stages of the Project:
(i) at the beginnling of the Project to inform the design of the workfare program;
(ii) at the mid-point for the Project in order to inform any needed adjustments to project
design and implementation; and
- 30 -



(iii) at the conclusion of the Project in order to assess project impact. This three-phase
process will provide information at points when critical policy decisions will be made.
Three elements will form the basis of the M&E system:
1.    Household Level Impact Evaluation. The extemal evaluation will collect baseline and
follow-up data from individuals employed inManos a la Obra projects and a comparison group in
order to assess the project's impact on earnings and household welfare. The evaluation will rely
on an agreement reached with the GOC that will encourage infrastructure project administrators
to randomly select workers from a pool of qualified applicants in cases of excess demand for the
jobs being offered. The random selection process will not only provide a transparent and equitable
basis for the selection of beneficiaries; it will also permit the evaluation to apply an experimental
design based on the use of applicants not selected for employment as a control group to assess
prograimn impact. The evaluation will also harmonize its data collection efforts with the existing
system of household surveys to provide a basis for evaluating targeting and for constructing an
alternative control group using non-beneficaries drawn from national survey data.
2.    Project Evaluation. A facilities survey will be applied to sample projects to assess the
technical quality, sustainability, targeting and cost-effectiveness of the infrastructure investments
financed by the workfare project.
3.     Process Evaluation. To complement and test the validity of the quantitative data,
provide needed inputs for refining the implementation of Manos a la Obra at the beginning and
conclusion of the Project, and foster a participatory evaluation process, a process evaluation using
qualitative data will be collected from communities receiving program investments and
policymakers. Appropriate strategies, such as focus groups, community questionnaires, and key
informanit interviews will be used. There will be an emphasis on developing indicators for which
chianges can be measured over time by usinig techniques such as ranking and listing and by
ensuring that a common methodology and sets of questions are applied across projects in the
evaluation.
To support the quality of the M&E system and to ensure its relevance to policy decisions in
Colombia, a Technical Committee will be established at the National Planning Department. The
committee will work directly with the staff contracted to conduct the external evaluation and with
the Project Implementation Unit to ensure the timely production of the relevant monitorinig data.
In addition, a Steering Committee consisting of evaluation specialists, academics and
policymakers will be created to guide the design, analysis and use of the M&E system to inform
policy decisions and promote learning regarding the impact of the program.
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$180.00 million
Community Works Subprojects. Municipal and departmental governments, public services
enterprises, EATs (workers' cooperatives), and NGOs can present subprojects for funding by the
program. The menu of subprojects which are eligible for financing by theManos a la Obra:
Proyectos Coniunitarios program includes: (i) minor construction, repair, expansion, or
remodeling for schools, health facilities, basic sanitation facilities: (ii) small roads and bridges,
culverts and canals: (iii) community centers; and (iv) pilot housing projects. Details on the
definitioni of each category of subprojects, including restrictions and special requirements, are
contained in the Operations Manual.
Project Component 2 - US$11.19 million
Project Managemenit. This component would finance the following activities needed for
irnplementing the program:
(i) final preparation and duplication of the Project's Manual of Operations and related
guidebooks;
(ii) establishment of project information system;
(iii) office equipment;
(iv) training of project personnel;
(v) operating costs such as salaries for technical and administrative personnel, travel and per
diem costs for in-counitry travel, external supervision services, external information ("
outsourcing") services, and financial transaction fees; and
(vi) project promotion campaigns and technical assistance activities for potential applicants.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.79 million
Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would finance project impact evaluation and
extemnal review including ex-post evaluations of subproject quality and other special topics
related to experiences with subproject operations and maintenance, performance of executing
agencies and women's participation. Draft terms of reference for these studies have been agreed
with the GOC and are in the Project File.
A managemenit information system (MIS) would be finaniced and established to ensure reliable and
quickly available infornation needed for monitoring of subprojects and efficient payment of
salaries. The MIS would also be used to minimize abuses (e.g. payment of "ghost workers" and
non-completion of subprojects). The design of the MIS as well as its operations would be
outsourced based on competitive bidding.
- 32 -



Component 1: Community Works SubProjects (project cycle)
I. Program Promotion. Program promotion would be divided into three main key activities: (i)
nationial and departmental media campaigns; (ii) departmental workshops and other promotional
events; and (iii) diffusion of infornation througlh local/community level institutions. General
information about the program would be provided to the public through the use of television,
newspapers and radio. Program promotion would vary in intensity during the life of the Project.
During the first year, the campaign will be conducted at a high level of intensity. By year 3, the
level of promotion would diminish with fewer events and media coverage.
2. Project Presentation. The menu of activities eligible for project financing includes the
following: constructioon, extension, remodeling, rehabilitation of schools, basic sanitation systems,
transportation networks, bridges, culverts, weirs, and canals, health facilities, community centers,
and demonstration low-cost housing. Eligibility criteria for each category are presented in the
Operations Manual and in the guides for presentation of project proposals. Proposals that fall in
the environimenital negative list will not be accepted for presentation (Annex I1). Subprojects
must be completed within 4-8 months. The application form includes information on executing
agencies, total cost, benefits expected (including a description of the community, role of the
community in project selection, and implementation and supervision), and location of the
subproject. Completed applications are presented to regional FINDETER where local officers
would verify the application form, supporting documents and compliance with eligibility criteria.
Accepted applications would be entered into the MIS (Management Information System). In tlle
case of municipalities and public services enterprises, proposals should be presented with their
choseni Subproject Implementinig Entity (NGO or EAT).
3. Project Evaluation. Each subproject proposal would be evaluated by trained professionals
(FINDETER staff and consultants). The latter would be contracted at the departmental level. The
methodology to be used for evaluation covers economic, technical, financial, institutional,
environmental, and social aspects of the subproject and incorporates checks on costs, usinlg a data
base containing infonnation on unit costs for similar types of subprojects. Appraisal formats and
guides were developed based on the experience of the Argentina's TRABAJAR program, various
social projects currently being implemented in Colombia (Red de Solidaridad Social Banco de
Proyectos, Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n) and the previous experience of FINDETER.
Details on the subproject evaluation methodology are contained in the Operations Manual. Each
trained FINDETER appraiser is expected to be able to evaluate between 20 and 40 subprojects
per month.
4. Project Approval. Once a subproject is judged to be viable on economic, technical and other
grounds, it is ranked according to specific criteria. These criteria are explained in both the
Operations Maanual and the guide for presentation of subproject proposals. These proposals are
scored accordilg to a point system that is based on the level of poverty in the area where the
subproject would be located, contribution to workers' salaries, the share of subproject cost
financed by private sources, and past performance of proponents in implementing projects funded
- 33 -



by Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios. For that purpose, the project management
informationi system would compile relevant indicators and data. Proposals can be submitted every
two months to one of ten regional selection and approval committees. The members of the
committees would consist of the FINDETER appointed staff, a representative of the NCU, and a
non-voting representative of the local supervision entity. The committees would review
subprojects and approve them based on1 their rankings up to the limit of the resources assigned to
each department. Once the committee approves a subproject, a resolution is issued by the
FIP-DAPRE listing the names of the Project and the amount of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
Comunitarios financinig approved for each. The representative of the NCU designated for each
region would sign the letter of agreement between the proponent of an approved subproject and
the program, following standardized format agreed upon by the Bank and the Government.
5. Project Implementation, Financing and Payment of Workers. Once a subproject is approved,
the selected SIE would have to present to the regional FINDETER office the list of workers of
the subproject. Those agencies would prepare those lists following the beneficiary selection
criteria established in the Operations Manual and SISBEN data. The list would have to include
20% more beneficiary names than the number of persons needed by the subproject to create a
pool of potential replacements and facilitate project impact evaluation. Inclusion in such a list,
however, would not be a prerequisite for working on a subproject.
The list of workers would be verified on-line byFINDETER staff usiing the national MIS. Once
the list of workers is accepted, the local private supervision agency would be informed about the
official start of the subproject. An appointed supervisor will visit the field to verify the existence
of materials and other conditions required to start implementation of the subproject. Upon his
return from the site visit, the supervisor would infonn the NCU and the MIA of the official start
of the subproject. During that month, the MIA prepares the Subproject payment orders for all
approved subprojects. Those orders are then submitted to NCU, on basis of whichi it will request
Treasury to pay from the Special Account (using,SIIF) the Subproject Implementation Entities
For subsequent periods, supervisors would visit subprojects before the end of the month and
inform the NCU and the MIA about any worker replacements or problems with subproject
implementation. The payment process for the second and subsequent months would be like the
first one. During the first five days of each month and after each payment period, the Subproject
Implementing Entities would submit a report (following standard form) to the NCU about actual
payments made.
6. Project Supervision. Trained professionals, contracted at the regional level would supervise
each subproject. On average, each subproject would be supervised once a month during
execution. The first supervision would take place at the beginning of implementation and before
the first payment to workers is authorized. Subsequent supervision would occur between montl
the first and the 25th day of the month. Technical assistance would be provided to agencies to
resolve problems uncovered by supervision.
Supervisors would be hired by the NCU based on agreed terms of reference to ensure technical
quality and good management of the Project. They will review the budget of the subprojects,
technical specifications, compliance with environmental guidelines, and site visits during project
- 34 -



implementation . Guidelines will be included in the Operations Manual.
An "interventor" (an inspector) would verify Government-owned subprojects and ensure
compliance with Colombia's civil works regulations. In addition, the Project would contract
"supervision firms" to check all subprojects at least thrice during their execution.
7. Financial Parameters. Budgetary Allocation and Contract Unit costs for specific types of
subprojects and a data base for updating them would be established to guide their assessment.
The size of the subproject is limited to between $20,000 - $100,000 and up to 50 workers, if it
receives financing of materials from the loan. If it does not, its cost could go up to $150,000.
Given that more than 80 percent of the unemployed are located in 78 municipalities (these include
municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, departmental capitals and metropolitan areas),
it was decided to allocate 80 percent of the loan to these areas. The other 20 percent would be
earmarked for the rest of the municipalities. The project would give economic assistance (wage
contributionis) of about $90 per month for six hours of work per unskilled laborer working in
approved subprojects. This is equivalent to about 70 percent of the take home minimum wage for
nornal hours of work.
The NCU would assign a budget for each region based proportionally on the regional distribution
of unemployment and poverty. This quota system is aimed at preventing the concentration of
project benefits in a few regions. Within each region proposed subprojects would be evaluated,
ranked and visited by the Regional FINDETER Office (Unidad Regional de FINDETER or URF).
The subproject ranking system is based on a formula that considers: the poverty strata of the
localities in which a subproject would be undertaken (usinig theIndice de Calidad de Vida);
compliance with agreements regarding satisfactory delivery of funded subprojects; the
labor-intensity of the proposed subprojects; and the amount of non-public sector contributions.
Tlhe formula, described in the Operations Manual, is designed to leverage the loan to maximize its
effect on employment and to ensure that the expected benefits would actually be generated and
directed to the poorest communities.
Subproject funding would require a "convenio" (agreement) among DAPRE-FIP, the proponenit
and its selected SIE in accordance with the Operations Manual. The agreement would follow a"
Modelo de Convenio" acceptable to the Bank. This model will be incorporated in the Operations
Manual.
8. Registry of SlEs. The NCU would establish a list of pre-qualified non-governmental entities
based on agreed criteria (included in the Operations Manual). The list will be an open
registration, which will be updated regularly.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Local  Foreign       ~Total
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                      f
Project Cos ByCmponent                     iUS $mlin Umil        ilio     US  tmhonj
1. Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios SubProjects        180.00           0.00         180.00
2. Project Management                                           10.67           0.52          11.19
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                                     0.49           0.30          0.79
Total Baseline Cost                                            191.16           0.82        191.98
Physical Contingencies                                          0.00          0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                             0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs                191.16           0.82         191.98
Front-end fee                        1.00           1.00
Total Financing Required                 191.16           1.82         192.98
Local    ~~Forigotal
Projec CostBy Caegory ~  US$mllion      US $mlion      USl$million
1. Subprojects                                                  180.00            0.00         180.00
2. Goods                                                           1.00           0.57           1.57
3. Services and Training                                          6.14            0.30           6.44
4. Operating Costs                                                 1.40           0.00            1.40
5. Unallocated                                                    2.57            0.00           2.57
Total Project Costs      191.11            0.87         191.98
Front-end fee                        1.00          1.00
Total Financing Required       191.11            1.87         192.98
Note Physical contingencies: Since most of the project cost is accounted for by financing for subprojects and
physical targets are not the principal objective, no contingencies have been provided for subprojects. Any increase
in the average subprqject cost would be reflected in a smaller number of subprojects being implemented. Given the
projected 18-month execution period for the Project, no contingencies have been calculated for project
administration either.
- 36 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
No rate of return or net present value estimates were calculated. The cost effectiveness of
generating ajob, however, has been analyzed and presented below. Essentially, the estimates
show that cost per job generated by the Project is within the range of international experience.
The cost-effectiveness of the Project in terms of incomes transferred to poor families relative
to the cost of transferring them has also been analyzed, in comparison with alternative
schemes like cash transfers. The conclusion, which is discussed in Section E, is that the
Project is probably marginally cost-effective, but that depends on what is assumed regardilg
the value of the subprojects.
Main Assumptions:
The following are notes to the table below, analyzing the cost per job generated:
1. Current Program: Minimum wage + noni-wage benefits, 312 days/year.
2. Minimum Wage, no benefits
3  0.7 Minimum Wage, no benefits
4. GDP/Cap US$ withini 2 years of program (data from  WDR various issues).
5. Adjusted by GDP/capita as measure of mean labor productivity. Since the dollar costs
were calculated at market exchange rates, GDP/capita at market exchange rates is the
appropriate variable, no the PPP corrected figures.
6. Labor costs share for all Colombia calculated using 2/.
- 37 -



Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
Cost of Creating Jobs
Argentina           1998           9.8            8410           1.2           0.6
Bolivia          1987-90           8             600           13.3           0.4
Chile             1987           0.5            1320           0.4
Honduras          1990-91           1             590            1.7           0.4
Costa Rica         1991-94           4            1900           2.1
Bangladesh         1991-92          1.6            210           7.6            0.5
Pakistan           1992            2.8            380           7.4            0.6
Niger             1993            11            270            40.7           0.3
Colombia            2000            12.5          2443           4.5
Colombia            2000            10.2          2443            3.5
Colombia            2000            8.6          .2443           2.9            0.5
Data not from Colombia or Argentina from Subbarao et al. 1997.
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Years Ending
May 31 - (in US$ million)
-MFPLMENATIQN PERIOD
Yearl   i Year 2  l Year3  I Year 4  | Year 5  |                     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            30.6        73.8        75.6        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.6         2.1        3.6         3.6        3.6         0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            31.2       75.9        79.2         3.6        3.6         0.0        0.0
Front-end fee      1.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Total Financing               32.2        75.9        79.2         3.6        3.6         0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    17.0       41.0        42.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Government                  16.4       40.2        42.7         3.6        3.6        0.0         0.0
Central                  0.5         1.2         1.3        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              15.9        39.0       41.4         3.6         3.6       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Others                       0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       33.4       81.2        84.7         3.6        3.6        0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
*   Calculation of Total Financing based solely on investment cost and recurrent cost (operations and maintenance
costs of completed subprqjects), whereas Total Project Financing includes cost for all 3 components (SubProject,
Project Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation).
*   Operation and maintenance costs of completed subprojects are assumed to be 2% of the subproject cost which
totals US$180 million at the end of Year 3.
Annex 5 B. Availability of Municipal Co-financing Funds
During pre-appraisal DNP estimated that the municipalities would receive new resources from the
national Government worth about $2 billion during the Project period. Further analysis, however,
at appraisal, revealed that while on the aggregate counterpart funds from eligible proponenits
would be available to finance material requirements of subprojects, the amount is much less than
initial estimates. Moreover, small municipalities do not appear to have the resources to participate
in the Project.
Backgrounid: Data from 1998 budgetary executions indicates that a total of about $790 million
- 39 -



was used for physical investment in the 932 municipalities of Colombia for which data is available.
Physical investment was defined to coincide with the sectors to be supported by subprojects under
Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios. However, investment capacity varies dramatically
between municipalities. The six largest municipalities (Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Barranquilla,
Bucaramanga and Cartagena) account for 82 percent of total capacity in the large municipalities
(those scheduled to receive 80% of project funds) and 57 percent of the total for all municipalities
in Colombia. Data indicate that the smallest municipalities, those classified as Category 4, 5, and 6
(totaling 809 municipalities) would have almost no resources to spare for physical investment. On
the other hand, medium-sized municipalities in Categories 1, 2 and 3 have access to more
substantial amounts for infrastructure investments. Project resources will be largely directed to the
larger municipalities due to the concentration of poor unemployed in them. To respond to the
possible lack of resources, up to 15% of project funds could be targeted to the provision of
materials in the smallest and poorest municipalities.
It is essential to note that these figures refer only to investments carried out by central municipal
governmenits. They do not include investments made by local public utilities(en7presaspiblicas
descentralizadas), or in-kind materials inputs by project proponents. Anecdotal evidence suggests
that these additional resources may account for a very important portion of total investment.
Actual cash disbursements by municipalities often constitute less than half of total investment
contributions.
Estimates: In estimating the total resources that could be available for municipal counterpart
fuLids, the following assumptions were made: (1) ten percent of total resources available for
physical investment could be directed to small projects of theManos a la Obra. Proyectos
Comunitarios type, located in poor communities (this appears to be a conservative estimate, as
DNP is assuming that 25% could actually be available), and (2) the availability of resources
would decline by 10 percent in 2000, relative to 1998, due to the recession. Under these
assumptions, it is estimated that a total of $62 million per year would be available in project
counterpart funds ($50 million in the largest 72 municipalities and $12 million in the smaller
ones), for a total of $186 million over the three-year duration of the program; again, this does
not include funds from local public utilities or any own-resources of project proponents.
If it is assumed that the labor share is 50% of total costs, these estimates would indicate that on
the whole, municipalities would have access to the required counterpart funds ($75 million
would be required over three years) to provide for materials. However, due to the wide variation
in revenues, it is likely that some small, poor municipalities would not have the necessary
counterparts.
-40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Procurement
Procuremeint for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with World Balk"
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank BorrowerV' published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method
are fixed in Table B.
- Procurement of Goods
The Loan will not finance the procurement of goods, except for building materials under the
Subprojects.
- Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise:
monitoring and impact evaluation of the Project; design and operation of administrative software,
designl promotion campaign, financial and procurement audits; supervision of subprojects;
management, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects; staff for NCU and RCU as indicated in
the Operations Manual; training and promotional workshops. These services are estimated to
cost US$6,440,000 equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for
Proposals pursuant to the following methods.
a) Firms: Consultant services to be financed by the Project include: monitoring and impact
evaluation of the Project which will be contracted using QCBS procedures. Design and operation
of administrative software, design and implementation of promotion campaign, financial,
monitoring and evaluation; monitoring and auditing services estimated to cost under US$100,000
would be contracted using CQ procedures, up to an aggregate amount of US$3,560,000
equivalent. Contracting of other minor services such as workshops and training logistics will be
contracted usinlg Least-Cost Selection up to an aggregate US$30,000 equivalent.
b) Individuals: Regional training, subprojects evaluators, staff for NCU and RCU as indicated in
the Operations Manual; training and promotional workshops preparation of manuals and other
services would be provided by individual consultants selected in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$2,160,000, all costs included.
- 41 -



Procurement Plan. The nature of the Project consists mainly of salaries subsidies to unskilled
workers in approved subprojects in Colombia, some procurement of building materials, and
contracting of specialized services to monitor, implement and follow-up the Project. The
Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation listing subprojects, contracts,
methods amounts and key dates of contracting and implementation to register the aggregate
amounts assigned to the various procurement methods. The procurement plan and consultant
selection process plan will be updated periodically, every 6 months. The plans include the (i) list
of contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the upcoming
calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester; (ii) costs of completed and under
execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; (iii) schedule of bidding; and (iv)
particular methods of procurement of goods or selection of consultants. The first plan will be
approved by the RPA and will be in the Project files. At the beginning of each calendar semester,
the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the
coining semester.
Procurement under Subprojects. The loan will finance under the subprojects the subsidies of
salaries up to an aggregate amount of US$75 million. Building materials up to an aggregate
amount of US$15.0 million will be financed up to 40% of each subproject according to the
criteria established in the Operations Manual and when very small municipalities do not have
enough or no counterpart funds. The procurement of these materials will be carried following
national shopping procedures. The selection of the Subprojects will be made byFINDETER in
accordance with a formula described in the Operational Manual. Subprojects public works,
selection of beneficiaries and payment of salaries subsidies will be executed by NGOs and/or
Empresas Administrativas de Trabajo (EATs) selected through a national process with eligibility
and selection criteria acceptable to the Bank. These entities will be included in an open natiolnal
registry. Criteria for eligibility, selection and TOR will be included in the Operational Manual. The
technical supervision of each of the subprojects will be hired by the NCU based on agreed terms
of reference to ensure quality and good management of the Project. Model TOR and guidelines
will be included in the Operations Manual. The procurement of equipment is not envisioned in
this project.
- 42 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Proturement Method
JExpenditure Category                   ICB             NCB           Other           N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Goods                                0.00            0.00           0.00            1.57          1.57
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. (a) Consultants' services            0.00            0.00           1.40           0.00           1.40
for the NCU and the RCUs            (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.40)          (0.00)        (1.40)
(b) Consultants'services             0.00            0.00            6.44           0.00          6.44
other than under (a) above,         (0.00)         (0.00)          (5.03)          (0.00)        (5.03)
and training
3. Subprojects                          0.00            0.00          180.00           0.00         180.00
a). Salaries Subsidies             (0.00)         (0.00)         (75.00)         (0.00)        (75.00)
b). Materials                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (15.00)         (0.00)        (15.00)
4. Unallocated                                                         2.57                          2.57
(2.57)                       (2.57)
Total                                0.00            0.0           190.41           1.57         191.98
(0.00)          (0.0)        (100.00)         (0.00)       (100.00)
N.B.F = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Footnote:
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
- 43 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultan7                                  Seeo    M ge hod
Services 
Expenditure  QlCBS X        S ' iSF            LS         CQ     Other ! N.BF.  ota Cos
A. Firms           0.78      0.00      0.00       0.03      471       0.00       0.00      5.52
(0.69)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.03)    (3.55)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.27)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      2.32       0.00      2.32
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.16)    (0.00)    (2.16)
Total   0.78      0.00      0.00      0.03      4.71       2.32      0.00      7.84
(0.69)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.03)    (3.55)    (2.16)    (0.00)    (6.43)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based oni the procurement capacity assessment of
the Project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of
individual procurement actions, the plan and budget for the NCU Operating Costs will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
Bank Prior and Post Review. Prior Review by the Bank require the following procurement
actions: (i) all consultants' services provided by a firm selected by QCBS, estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more (prior review of all documentation including technical and final evaluation);
(ii) services provided by firms selected by QCBS estimated cost US$70,000 or more and less than
US$100,000 (prior review of all documentation and final evaluation only); (iii) consultants'
services provided by an individual estimated to cost US$50,000 or more (prior review of all
documentation); (iv) consultants'services provided by an individual costing over $20,000 (terms
of reference); (v) for any amendment of contracts resulting in the increase of the contract value
beyond the review limits set in (ii) and (iii) above; (v) all terms or reference for key personnel of
the coordinating units irrespective of value; and (vi) any other activity below the mentioned
thresholds identified by the Bank on the basis of the annual procurement plan. All other contracts
not included above shall be reviewed ex-post by Bank supervision missions.
- 44 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ._._.......
Contract Value                            1 Contracts Subj_ect to
Threshold             Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure C1aeo       U___SS thousands)               Method      _       (1s$ millions)
2. Consultants
(a) Consultants' services for the
NCU and the CUs
(b) Consultants'services other than
under (a) above, and training:
Firms                                >100                   QCBS             All docs, including
Technical report
>70 - <100             QCBS, CQ           All docs, final report
Individuals                           >50          See Section V of Guidelines    All documents
>20<50        See Section V of Guidelines  Review of TOR and
all TOR for key staff
of NCU and RCU
irrespective of value
<20          See Section V of Guidelines  Post Review
3. Subprojects
Building Materials                    <50                  Shopping            All post review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    3.0
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review) and one procurement audit every year.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement. Procurement activities will
be carried out by the National Coordinating Unit (NCU) under DAPRE-FIP, in close coordination
with Department of National Planning (DNP) as the oversight agency. The
Administrative/Financial Office of DAPRE-FIP, which is comprised of a Procurement specialist,
Financial/accountant Coordinator and a Systems Coordinator, provides support to the NCU. The
NCU is satisfactorily staffed by a Project Coordinator (Jefe), an Evaluation Coordinator, a
Technical Assistance Coordinator, a Supervision Coordinator, and Peace Coordinator.
FINDETER will evaluate and select the subprojects for approval by DAPRE-FIP. The Operations
Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, Contracting Documents to be
- 45 -



used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for building materials procured on
the basis of three quotations or shopping.
Procurement Risk Assessment. The Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for Colombia is
dated April 1997. The assessment involved interviews with officials from NCU and DNP and the
FINDETER. Based on this assessment, and taking into account that (1) the only procurement of
goods financed by the Bank in this project will be building materials and the contracting of some
consultants; and (2) Law 80, the current procurement law, stipulates that the procurement policies
and procedures of the international financiers apply to their respective projects, the project's
procurement risk rating is assessed to be average.
This Capacity assessment was approved by the RPA on March 16, 2000. The detailed
recommendations of the Assessment have been included in the Project design and in extensive
details in the Project Operations Manual prepared before negotiations.
- 46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
ExpeditueItegory_             Amount In LS$m ilion     Finantn Pecentage
1. Subprojects
l.a. Salaries Subsidies: 75.00 (83%)      90.00                      90%
l.b. Materials 15.00 (17%)
2. Consultants' services for the               1.40                      1 .4%
NCUand the RCUs
3. Consultants' services other than           5.03                      5.03%
under 2 above, and training
4. Unallocated                                2.57                      2.57%
Total Project Costs                           99.00
Front-end fee         1.00                      1.0%
Total                                         100.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
In respect of disbursements for this project, it was agreed to establish project financial monitorinig
mechanisms with the Borrower that will enable loan proceeds to be disbursed on the basis of
quarterly project cash forecast linked to expected project activities during such quarter. In the
event financial management arrangements acceptable to the Bank are not yet fully in place by loan
effectiveness, reimbursement of expenditures paid out of the advance to the Special Account shall
be made initially on the basis of SOEs, following Bank standard disbursement procedures.
Special account:
A Special Account shall be establish at the Banco de la Republica in accordance with Bank
policies and procedures. The amount of the initial deposit shall be determined by the disbursement
mechaniisms agreed with the Bank. Payments to the Subproject Implementing Entities (NGOs and
EATs) will be directly paid through the SIIF (Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera, or
the financial management system) from the Special Account. It was agreed that before the
establishment of the Special Account, the Government will strengthen, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank, the capacity of SIIF to make direct payments to the Bank accounts of Subproject
Implementing Entities and train relevant NCU staff on how to use it.
Retroactive financing: It has been agreed that in order to enable the Project to meet the
deadlines established for appraisal, negotiations and implementation, it is necessary to hire staff
for the NCU and other technical assistance advisors, valued at approximately US$2.0 million
which will be financed retroactively.
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
~roectSchdul                                    Pi rredActa
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4                             6
First Bank mission (identification)              10/04/99                      10/04/99
Appraisal mission departure                      01/10/2000                    02/02/2000
Negotiations                                     01/31/2000                    03/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/15/2000                    06/01/2000
Prepared by:
Department of National Planning (DNP)
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality         ___          ___
Vicente B. Paqueo                  Task Team Leader
Constance A. Corbett               Sector Leader, LCC4C/LCSHD
Ana Maria Arriagada                Sector Manager, Social Protection
Connie Luff                        Country Officer for Colombia
Zeinab Partow                      Country Economist for Colombia
Jose Augusto Carvalho              Lawyer for Colombia
Efraim Jimenez                     Country Procurement Specialist for Colombia
William Maloney                    Sr. Economist
Carlos Eduardo Velez               Sr. Economist
Laura Rawlings                     Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Jairo Arboleda                     Social Development Specialist
Issam A. Abousleiman               Disbursement Officer
Thakoor Persaud                    Sr. Economist
Maria Lucy Giraldo                 Procurement Specialist
Juan D. Quintero                   Sr. Environmental Specialist
Marta Ospina                       Procurement Analyst
Yukiko Arai                        Operations Analyst
Christian Hurtado                  Civil Engineer; Inst. & Implement. Arrangements, Including PIP; MIS
Luis Carlos Guerrero               Financial Management Officer
Gary Costello                      Environmental Specialist
Maria Claudia Vasquez              Civil Engineer; Methology for Evaluation and Assurance of Quality
Rosalia Sanchez-Rushton            Task Assistant
Theresa Jones, Eduardo Velez Bustillo, and Kalanidhi Subbarao were the peer reviewers.
- 48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan forManos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1)    Notes on poverty, unemployment and other social sector issues
2)    Economic analysis of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios
3)    Financial capacity assessment of municipalities and other eligible proponelits
4)    Notes on financial management and assessments
5)    Notes on institutional arrangement issues
6)    Notes on legal issues regarding minimum wage and payment of fringe benefits
C. Other
I)    Project Operations Manual, including Environmental Guidelines and Model Terms of
Reference
2)    Unit cost and budget estimates
*Including electronic files
- 49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                     Purpose                              IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
CO-PE-39082    1999 INVIAS                    TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                  13710        0 op       o 00      10000     4000       000
CO-PE-50576   1999 GOVERNMENT                 YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                       5.00       000        0.00        479      079       000
CO-PE-46031    1998 GOVERNMENT                MAGDALENA MEDIO                         5 00       000        0 00        338      013       0 00
CO-PE-46112    1998 GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA  PASTO EDUCATION                           720        000        000         589      119       000
CO-PE-53243   1998 MINHACIENDA                PEASANTENTERPRISEZ                      5.00       000        000        459       029       000
CO-PE-6861    1998 FINDETER                   URBANINFRASTRUCTURE                    7500        000        000        7032      032       000
CO-PE-6891    1998 GOV OF COLOMBIA            ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                    40 00       0.00       000        38 74     364       0 00
CO-PE-40102    1997 GOVT OF COLOMBIA          REG REF TA                             12 50       0 00       0 00       1169      4 70      000
CO-PE-6884    1997 GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA  FIN MRKTS DEV TA                          15 00       0 00       0 00       1337      687       000
CO-PE-39291    1996 GOVERNMENTOF COLOMBIA  URBAN ENVIRONMENTTA                       2000        000        000        1299     1097       000
CO-PE-6872    1995 BOGOTADISTRICT             URBANTRNSPRT                           6500        000        000        4293     2695       475
CO-PE-6887    1996 GOVERNMENT                 POWER MARKET DEVELOP                  249 30       0 00       0 00       67 26    29 18     16 52
CO-PE-6894    1996 GOVT OF COLOMBIA           SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL                  145.00       000        000        8987     6620       000
CO-PE-6660    1995 GOVERNMENT                 AGRICULTURETECHNOLO                    5100        0 00       0 00       37 30    2100         000
CO-PE-6893    1995 GOVERNMENTOFCLM            ENERGYTA                               1100        000        000         355      3.55      000
CO-PE-6868    1994 GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA  SECONDARY EDUC                            9000        000        000        5499     4326      11 52
CO-PE-6668    1994 GOV OFCOLOMBIA             NATURALRESOURCEMAN                     39.00       000        000        1781     1082      1037
CO-PE-6889    1994 GOV OF COLOMBIA            PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                   30 00       0 00       0 00       4 60      4 60      0 00
CO-PE-6854    1993 GOVERNMENTOFCOLOMBIA   MUNICIPALHEALTHSER                         5000        000        0.00       3030     2729      1929
GOV OF COLOMBIA IA
Total:    105210        0 00       0 00     614 37    301 75     62 45
- 50 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1963/90            Coltejer                       6.32    0.00     0.00     0.00    6.32    0.00     0.00    0.00
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valie                   0.00    0.00    7.43      0.00    0.00    0.00     7.43    0O0(
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                       12.21    0.00     1.13   33.83    12.21    0.00     1.13   33.83
1981/85/87/89/91/92/9 Leasing Bolivar              4.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    4.00    0.00     0.00    0 0(
4                   PRODESAL                       0.00    0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.59    (.00
1987               ODC                             2.89    0.00     0.00    6.77    2.89    0.00     0 00    6.77
1990/92            Corfinansa                      0.00    0.00     1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.43    0.00
1994/95            Corfinsura                    13.06    0.00    0.00      0.00    13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Icollantas                     11.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97            Proyectos                       9.64    0.00     5.00    0.00    4.17    0.00     5 00    0.00
1996               Suleasing                      30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    7.43    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997
Total Portfolio:        89.12    0.00    15.58   40.60    61.08    0 00    15.58   40.60
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 51 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: COMMUNITY WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios)
Latin    Lnwer-
POVFRTY and SOCIAl                                                   Anerina    middle-
Coinnhbia    A Crarib   inome.          Development diamond
199a
Poo.lation mid-vear fmilliorsl .4r 8                                     502         908                    Life expectancy
GINP ser cacita (At-as method USS)                          2 500       8 940      1 710
GNP (Atlas method USS billionsl                             106 1       1 978      1 557                           T
Averace annual nrowth. 1992-98                                                                                     T
Pooulalion I%                                                   9         1 6         1 1
Labor foroe %l                                                2 7         2 3         1 5      GNP                                  Gross
per    a                            prim ary
Most recent estimate al.estt ear available. 1992-981                                          pcpita                             --rimart
Povertv (fo ot ooulation below national oovertv linel          198
Urban ooeulation (lb of total ooulationl                       74          75         58
Life exoectancv at birth (vearsl                               70          70         68
Infant mortalitv (oer 1 000 lion birthsl                       24          32         38
Child malntrilion (la of children unde, 51                      a           8                 |           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of ooDolationl                         75          75         75
Illiteracv (% of .o...tion aoe 15+1                             9          13         14
Gross orirarv enrollment (% of school-aoe .o.ulationl         113         113        103                 Colombia
Male                                                       113                     105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                     112                     100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977      1987        1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billionsl                                 19 5      36 4       108 6      102 9
Gross domeslic investment/GDP                      15 7      19 1        230        22 3
E.oorts of Ooods and services/GDP                  16 9      17 0        13.9       130                         Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                         22 3      23 1        18 0        16 6
Gross national savinos/GDP                         21 1      21 2        176        16 5
Current account balance/GDP                         1 9       -0 1       -5 4        -5 7                         <;
Interest oa.mnenrsIGDP                              0 a       3 7         1 5         1 7      Domestic                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                     2300      46 8        312        35 1       Savings
Total debt serviceleonorts                         10 7      39 1        46 7       47 3                          N/
Present valon of debt/GDP                                                279
Present valoe of debtle.oorts                                           198 4
indebtedness
1977-87   1988-98      1997        1998   1999-03
(a,eraoe annual orowltl
GOP                                      3 4        4 0       3 1         0.6         3 6                 Colombia
GNP Der caoita                            0.7       296        1 1        -1 3        1 7                 Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and serices              5 0       7 1       8 1         -4          8 3                                                 ..
STRIICTIIRF of the FCrONOMY
1977      1987        1997       1998       Grnwth rates of nutput and in-estment l#)
(% of GOPI
Aoriculture                                        250       174         14 1        145
lndustrv                                           303       348         290        271        30
Manufacturino                                    239       20 3        14 2        138       t5
Services                                           44 7      47 8        57 0       584         o
Private consuMDtion                                700       682         658        672        Is      93    04   59   96    97    98
General oovernment cons.motion                      7 7       . 7        16 2       16                   G-        I -3GP
Imoorts of ooods and servces                       13.3      129         194        196
1977-87   1988-98        1997       1998       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaoe annual o,rowth)
Aoricullure                                         2 5       1 7         0.2         0 6     so
Ind.strv                                            4 1       2 3         1 3        -2 3      o0
Ma-ufa-t-rin.                                     2 5        1 7        2 5         0 0     10
Services                                            3 4       57          36          2 4     20
Private consmotion                                  2 9       4 0         3 7         1 9     to
General oovernmenl consumotion                      51        53          47          0,3      o
Gross domestic investment                           23       14 0         35                   10      93    94    95    9t    97    98
rmnorts of ooods and services                      2 5       16 0        4 4         1 5                     EaPyrts            Imparts
Gross national oroduct                              29        39          3 1        -25
Notei 1998 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the cocntrv 6n bold) comoared with its income-crouD averaee If data are missino the diamond will
be incomolete
- 52 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977      1987       1997       1998       lnflation (%f
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   32 7      23 3        196        1         20
Implicit GDP deflator                             29 2       23 4       17 0       17 5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                              22 2        27 7      27.6               93 94 ss             5      97    98
Current budget balance                                        5 5         6 5        57                  GDP deflator    :CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                      -2 3        -3 8       -3.7
TRADE
1977      1987       1997       1998       Export end import Ievels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              2,660     5,254      11,680    11,331       16r000
Coffee                                          1,498     1,633       2,259      1,915
Hydrocarbons                                     106      1,342      2,707      2,387      12.000 
Manufactures                                    1,025     1,556       5,293     5.614
nos
Total imporls (Ctl)                               1,970     3,793     14,409    14.836
Food                                                                  1.728                 4,:000
Fuel and energy                                   136       148        240
Capital goods                                    664      1,351 5,561           5,680                                s
92   93   9'4  9t   90   97   50
Eunort once index 1995=tOO)                          6        26         126        112
imoort orice index 0995=1001                         3        26         123        116      L           Exports        i Irmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          178       103         102         96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977      1987       1997       1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ mnillions)                                                                
Exports of goods and services                    3,379     6,421      14,238    13,339        4T
Imports of goods and services                    2,736     5,751      18,399    17,468        2
Resource balance                                   642       670       -4,161    -4,129
Net income                                        -313    -1,692      -2.371     -2,187        j 92  19            ~.   9    al
Net current transfers                               49      1,001        640        407       2j g       j   Lj g .
Current account balance                            378        -21     -5,892     -5,909      ,-4       '              L
Financing items (net)                           -1,280        43       5,982      4,454       6
Changes in net reserves                            902        -22        -90      1,455       8
Memo:
Reserves inoludino oold /USS millions)           3 197      3 587      9 611      6.397
Conversion rate (DEC local/USS)                    36 8     242 6     1.142 6    1.426.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977      1987       1997       1998
(US.t millionsl                                                                               Composition ot total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             5,053    17,023      33,865    36,084
IBRD                                             716     4,111       1,723      1,740                          A 1.740
IDA                                               22        17          10          9               G 6.403           S 9
Total debt service                                 379      2,830      7.131      6,863                                          5.451
IBRD                                              93       618         573        347
IDA                                                0         1           1          1397
Composition ot net resource flows
Official grants                                   15        19          85          .
Official creditors                                65       232        -456        107
Private creditors                                121      -318       4,053        566
Foreign direct investment                         65       319       5,574      3,192
Porttolio equity                                   0         0         593       -286
F 21,084
World Bank program                                                                            A - IBRD                         E - bilateral
Commitments                                      281       180          28        227       8- IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                     85       395         152        184       C-IMF                           0 - Short-term
Principal repayments                              41       279         380        232
Net flows                                         45       116        -228        -48
Interest payments                                 53       268         150        115
Net transfers                                     -8      -152        -378       -163
Development Economics                                                                                                                9/8199
- 53 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Summary of Key Environmental Issues and Project Environmental Management Guidebook
Background
The Borrower has a legal framework and system of environmental laws and regulations.
Under the current framework, often referred to as Law 99, a national system for
environmental management was established which specifies both broad policy as well as
detailed standards for pollution control, natural resource management etc. The Project
design has fully taken account of this legal framework. The evaluation of subproject
proposals will include environmental screening. Under Bank Loan 3973, the Governmelnt
of Colombia is receiving technical assistance aimed at strengthening this system.
Following recommendationis made by the Bank, the Borrower has prepared a report
Manual para el Tratamiento de los Aspectos Ambientales Asociados al Progrania "Manos
a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios" (The Environmental Guidebook) which identifies
potential environmental impacts associated with the implementation of subprojects. The
first draft of the project's Environ-mental Guidebook (EG) was reviewed by the Bank project
preparation mission and discussed with the LCSES Environmental Specialist and the
Quality Assurance Team. A revised EG was presented to the Bank Appraisal mission. That
mission provided detailed comments to the Borrower on the EG. A revised EG was
subm itted to the Bank shortly after the completion of the mission.
Potential Environmental Impacts and Risks
The Borrower and the Bank have identified the following environ-mental issues: (a) water
and waste management; (b) soil management and erosion control; (c) solid waste
management including management of construction waste; (d) public safety, land and
materials management: (e) conservation and restoration of natural cover; (f) alteration of
traffic pattemns; (g) air quality and noise levels; and (h) management of combustible material
and liquid residues. The EG provides full details on these potential environmental impacts
and identifies required mitigation measures.
Typology of Subprojects
The EG provides details on the enviro-nmenital review process (screening) and the role of
key environmental institutions in this review process. The EG is based on the premise that
the execution of all subprojects should be undertaken in a manner which insures sufficient
attention to enviroinmental concerns. Subprojects which are proposed in areas of high
environimenital risk will be rejected. This includes locations on steep slopes, over flood
plains/wetlands and areas of high earthquake risk. Given the expected number of
subprojects (over 15,000) and the different type of subproject activities, the subproject
evaluation process will need to be kept agile and simple. Finally, the EG will serve as an
important training and reference tool for project implementation. A copy of the approved
- 54 -



EG can be found in the Project files and as an aniex to the Operations Manual.
The EG identifies nineteen subproject types that include a variety of small construction
projects such as water supply and sanitation, neighborhood road paving and construction,
pedestrian walkways, renovation and repair of neighborhood health clinics and schools,
extension of electrical networks, community centers, and extension of telephone networks.
In addition, it is expected that communities will submit subprojects to improve and expand
urban parks, improve urban land quality and erosion control and establish community sports
facilities. The EG also identifies two categories of environmental evaluation: (i) nolle
required; and (ii) minimum evaluation; Table I presents the typology of subprojects and the
recommenided level of evaluation.
- 55 -



Table 1: Level of Environmental Evaluation According to Project Type
TYPE OF PROJECT                       NONE               LIMITED
1. Water supply network extension                                        X
2. Neighborhood road improvement                                         X
3. Sidewalk constructions                           X
4. Construction of ditches and curbs                X
5. Construction of Pedestrian Bridges               X
6. Paving of Roads                                                       X
7. Construction of walkways and steps               X
8a. Repair and Renovation of health centers                              X
8b. Construction of Health Centers                                       X
9a. School renovation and repairs                                        X
9b. School Construction                                                  x
1 Oa. Construction of child care centers                                 X
lOb. Construction of community centers                                   X
I1. Neighborhood Parks                                                   X
12. Sports Plaques                                  X
13. Construction of rain water channels                                  X
14. Erosion Control                                                      X
15. Pedestrian walkways                                                  X
1 6a. Construction of Court houses                                       X
16b. Renovation of court houses                     X
17. Extension of electricity networks and installation                   X
of public lighting
18. Extension of Telephone Networks                                      X
19. Construction of Community Social Centers                             X
Environmental Requirements during Subproject Preparation and Review
Each subproject proponent will be required to formally submit a subproject proposal (
Manual de Preparacion y Presentacion de Proyectos Manos a la Obra: Proyectos
Comnunitarios). This proposal will include basic information on location, project type,
duration, beneficiaries and cost. The proponent will also be required to submit
environmental information describing environmental conditions in the Project area such as
soil conditions, vegetation, water sources, wetlands, terrain, along with current practices for
solid and liquid waste disposal. The specific design and format for the presentation of
environimenital infornationi has been evaluated by the Bank's Environmental Specialist and
the final version reflects the Bank's input. Environmental information contained in the
subproject proposal will be reviewed and verified during the subproject evaluation.
If necessary, and depending on the type of project, proponents may be required to have
their projects "screened" by the appropriate institution in their locality that is responsible for
environmental management and the issuing of environmental permits and licenses. They
- 56 -



will also be required to provide information on their community's land use plan, "Plan de
Ordenatniento Territorial" (POT) and demonstrate that the proposed subproject is fully
consistent with the guidance provided under the POT. FINDETER will review this
information to insure that the established procedures for environmental screening have been
followed. Subproject proposals that provide incomplete environmental infonnation will be
rejected. If environmental impact is expected, subprojects will be required to include
detailed mitigation measures in their proposal.
Prior to the initiation of subproject financing, FINDETER'ssubproject evaluators will
receive comprehensive training on Colombia's legal and institutional framework for
environimenltal management along with details on environmental policies by sector
(transport, construction, etc.). They will also be provided with the EG, a SubProject
Evaluation Manual and the Project Operations Manual to assist them in the execution of
their work. In the context of subproject review, they will act in an advisory capacity to
proponents. In cases where environmental screening is required, the proponent will be
advised to consult the agency which has that responsibility in their locality.
Environmental Requirements during Subproject Implementation
Prior to the initiation of subproject activities, proponents will be provided with the relevant
sectoral guide (ie. roads, building construction, water supply) to assist them in undertaking
their work in a manner which reflects good environmental practice. These guides have been
included as Annexes to the EMP and will be made available to each zone management team
in the 31 Management Zones. SEGs have been prepared for: (i) housing/building
conistructioni; (ii) materials transport/roads; (iii) civil works; (iv) water supply and sewer
systems; (v) solid and liquid waste management; and (vi) natural resources use and
exploitation. This activity will be directly implemented by theFINDETER subproject
evaluator. Efforts will be made to insure that overall design of the small subproject works
includes the appropriate environmental activity (ie. septic tanks or sewer lines for new
buildings) or good environimental housekeeping practices during construction (ie no
construction wastes put in sewer drains or urban parks). The overall effectiveness of the
activity will be evaluated by the Environmenital Specialist in the NCU.
Subprojects will be monitored for compliance with environmental laws as well as with
specific environmental management plans (if required). Given that the total number of
subprojects and the fixed time frame of 5 months, it will be difficult and costly to do field
monitoring of every subproject. Monitoring environmental compliance is an integral part of
the overall project monitoring and evaluation plan.
The Environmental Specialist based in the NCU will be responsible for overseeing the
environmental monitoring of subprojects. Based on the initial evaluation and environmental
categorization, subprojects will be selected for field monitoring visits. Results of those visits
will be inputted into the overall project monitoring plan. If specific subprojects
environimental performance is inadequate, the Specialist can request that the Project's
review committee be convened to explore potential solutions. However, it is expected that
- 57 -



most performance issues can be dealt with directly and most effectively with the proponent.
Institutional Responsibilities
The institutional setup for environmental review will conform to the processes and
procedures established under Colombian law. DAPRE-FIP, the implementing agency, and
FINDETER, the development bank responsible for subproject evaluation, will be
responsible for insuring that these procedures are followed.
DAPRE-FIP and FINDETER
In order to insure adequate environmental analysis and subproject monitoring, the Project would
hire during the first year an Environmental Specialist as a regular Consultant who would be
based in the National Coordinating Unit (NCU). In year 2 and 3, the Specialist would be hired
as a consultanit as needed. The requirements of the position will include solid background on the
legal and institutional framework currently in place in Colombia, along with previous experience
with environmental management and training. The Specialist will be responsible for providing
environimental oversight on subproject approval and implementation. He will make subproject
site visits, review subproject assessments and approvals undertaken by theFINDETER
evaluators, and be available as a resource person on environmental issues related to project
implementation. The Specialist will also be the key resource person for both the NCU and
FINDETER on environmental screening and review procedures along with similar procedures
identified in each participating municipality's POT(Plan Ordenamiento Territorial).
In addition, the Specialist will oversee the implementation of the environmental training
program that all subproject evaluators will be required to take prior to assuming their
positions with FINDETER. The Specialist will provide substantive input on environmental
subproject criteria to the Project team charged with overseeing the promotion of the Project
througlhout Colombia. Specific terms of reference for the Specialist have been included in
the final version of both the EG and Operations Manual.
Under current operating guidelines, FINDETER is responsible for insuring that
infrastructure investments are screened for environmental impact by the legally responsible
agencies (national, regional or urban). FINDETER's management has the capacity to
review proposed investments to insure that project proponents have adhered to the legally
binding screening and review process. Proponents must submit, as needed, documents such
as environmental licenses, permits and management plans before an investment project can
be approved for funding.
FINDETER is currently receiving support from the Bank under loan CO-PE 6861.
Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening) of that loan provides support toFINDETER to
improve its overall project management capacity. One of the activities which has been
undertaken was the preparation of a plan to improve its capacity to review compliance with
environmental laws and to evaluate on an ongoing basis the environmental performance of
- 58 -



investment projects. It is expected that resources will be directed at developing monitoring
and evaluations methodologies and information systems to environmental performance.
The subproject proposals will be prepared taking into account social, financial,
environmental and technical criteria identified during the Project preparation phase and
detailed in the Manual de Preparacion y Presentacion de Proyectos Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Cornunitarios. Environmenital baseline information including the characteristics
of the subproject site will be included in the proposal along with the results (if required) of
the environmental screening process. For subprojects requiring (i) additional environmental
review; required documentationi such as an environmental management plan will be
submitted along with the proposal. These proposals will be reviewed byFINDETER's
subproject evaluators based in FINDETER's 10 regional offices. The content of subproject
proposals will be evaluated according to the criteria presented in theManual de Evaluacion
Ex-Ante de Proyectos.
Resource Requirements for Environmental Investment Activities
Environmental Investments
Investment Project                                  Total Cost      Responsible Institutions
(thousands of US
dollars)
Environmental Specialist (full-time I year)           30,000             DAPRE-FIP
Environmental Monitoring of Subprojects (travel and per  10,000          DAPRE-FIP
diem)
Reproduction and Distribution of Environmental        50,000        DAPRE-FIP, FINDETER
Management Guidebooks
Total      $90,000
- 59 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND PARTICIPATION
Social Assessment
The Project is not expected to have a negative impact on any special population group. For this
reason a full social assessment was not deemed necessary. Instead, a series of consultations were
conducted with key stakeholders in order to ensure that measures will be taken to guarantee fair
participation of special groups, as explained below.
Women. The experience of workfare programs such as Trabajar in Argentina shows that the
participation of women tend to be low due to the fact that traditionally they are less inclined to do
construction work. The national Household Survey of March, 1999 in Colombia shows that only
2% of the total labor force of women is involved in construction work. Furthermore, of all
construction workers, women represent only 0.6%. It is likely that the percentage is somewhat
higher for community public works; nevertheless, participation of women is expected to remain
low.
During project preparation, consultations were conducted with several women's organizations,
including representatives of Corporacion Vamnos Mujer from Medellin, the Mesa de Trabajo
Mujeres y Economia in Bogota, a gender specialist from the Department of Economics of
Javeriana University and the Adviser on gender issues to the Social Development Unit of DNP.
They are all aware of the low level of participation of women in construction activities and they
agree that efforts should be made to promote greater participation of women in the Project.
In order to address the issue of women's access to project benefits, several measures would be
taken. First, within the first year of project implementation, there would be an assessment of the
extent of women's participation in the Project and, if necessary, steps would taken to develop an
appropriate strategy to improve it. The assessment would be based on a monitoring system that
would gather data and report the participation rate of women by region and type of activity.
Development of corrective measures will include a review of the types of activities perforned in
programs with similar features as Manos a la Obra. Proyectos Comunitarios, such as Obras con
Dividendo Pedag6gico in Bogota, PRIMED (Programa de Mejoramiento de Barrios
Sub-normales) in Medellin or Construcci6n de Acueducto y Alcantarillado por Autoconstruccion
in Cali. Second, in developing and implementing the project's information and communications
strategy, emphasis would be put on the promotion of women's participation. It is hoped that, as a
result of these measures, the Project would show rising participation of women during
implementation.
Indigenous Peoples. The participation of indigenous groups in the Project is also expected to be
low, given its concentration on large urban areas, where the presence of indigenous peoples is
extremely low. Consultations were hield with representatives of indigenous organizationis,
including two Indiani senators and the Executive Director of ONIC (National Indigenous
- 60 -



Organization of Colombia).
The objective of the consultation was to present the Emergency Social Fund and its components,
particularly Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios and to seek guidance on ways for
indigenous peoples to access project benefits. The indigenous participants in the consultation
made the following recommendations: (i) make an explicit effort to reach theResguardos
Indigenas and the Cabildos and provide the necessary support for them to present project
proposals; (ii) earmark a percentage of the Project funds for subprojects proposed only by the
Cabildos, using objective criteria to define the amount (the different Resguardos would compete
for these funds based project criteria); and (iii) test.the instruments for project formulation and
adjust them as needed to make sure they are adequate for the Indian populations. These
recommendations were considered in the design of the Project. The second recommendation was
rejected as it would invite other special population groups to ask for the same deal, whichwould
make the Project very complicated.
Afro-Colombian Populations Poor Afro-Colombians unskilled workers living in urban areas
would have access to project benefits on equal terms with other eligible beneficiaries. Their
participation is expected to be high since they tend to represent a large percentage of the bottom
income quintile. This expectation is substantiated by evidence from a recent study conducted as
part of the poverty studies for the City Development Strategy in Cali (1999) Results of a
specialized representative sample survey on access and perception of public services show that
even though the coverage of public social programs is low among the poorest, Afro-Colombian
households have higher coverage than others. A similar situation is expected in other urban
centers, since the Project would use the same targeting instrument (SISBEN) to identify program
beneficiaries.
Internally Displaced Groups. Adult men and women who are displaced as a consequence of the
internal conflict would have equal access to the temporary work opportunities offered by the
Project. However, there would be no special component in the Project for this sub-population, as
the Government is planning a special program under the Red de Solidaridad Social with other
funding sources.
Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
The key stakeholders of the Project are poor workers, municipalities, NGOs and other non-profit
organizations. The use of a mix of implementing agencies, combining public and
non-governmental organizations, together with the project's demand-based approach and the
decentralization of project implementation provides a framework that is conducive to a high level
of social participation. However, this mix must be complemented by enhanced participation of
local people in the identification and selection of the proposed subprojects for several reasons.
First, local participation in subproject proposals builds ownership and interest, which are critical
variables for the sustainability of community infrastructure works. Second, by financing
community infrastructure the program provides an opportunity for developing social capital.
- 61 -



During appraisal, the mission examined a couple of ideas for enhancinig local people's
participation. One idea is that the inclusion in the Operations Manual of a requirement for
subprojects proposed by Churches, community organizations, or NGOs to describe how the local
population participated in the decision. Given their normal practice, these projects can be assumed
to have already benefited from local people's participation and that, therefore, reflect closely the
demand of the population. The same requirement would apply to the Government proposed
works that are currently part of the Municipal Development Plan, since they too can be assumed
to have benefited from local consultations. The other idea relates to new works proposed by these
governmental entities, where the assumption of previous local consultations do not hold. In this
case, the Project would require them not only to present a description of how the local population
participated in the decision to do the proposed work, but also to provide evidence on how they
will be involved in the use and maintenance of the subproject. The mission recommended that the
above requirements be incorporated in the final version of the Operations Manual.
A critical factor to the promotion of a participatory approach is the development of an effective
information and communication strategy not only to generate public support but also to promote
social control of project activities. For this purpose, the Project is developing such strategy with
the help of a professional consultant and is allocating funds for its completion and execution
during project implementation. The envisaged strategy would ensure that (i) the general public
knows the existence of the social safety net program; (ii) the executing agencies (organismos de
gesti6n learn and become familiar with how the system works; (iii) the potential beneficiaries
know the eligibility criteria, their rationale and ways of accessing the program and its benefits; and
(iv) citizens exercise social control over the program. The strategy would use a variety of
methods and media appropriate to particular audiences to communicate program objectives,
benefits, requirements, rules, procedures, and results. Implementation of such a communications
strategy would increase transparency, efficiency and better targeting.
The proposed communications strategy would have the following elements:
(a)   a nationial campaign using mass media to present the Project nationwide as a component
of the Plan de Apoyo Social (PAS);
(b)   a clear message to all potential beneficiaries, using a combination of mass media as well as
informationi posts indicating what the Project is about, how to benefit from the Project,
and where to go for additional information;
(c)   use of a Veeduria Ciudadana (citizen watch) as a central social control mechanism; this
would be partly accomplished by: (i) putting up a billboard for each project indicatilg the
nature of the work, the sponsor, the names of the workers, the cost of the Project and the
expected completion date (this would facilitate assessment and ilformed discussion by
neighbors of the quality of project implementation and compliance with the "rules of the
game"); and (ii) establishment of a specialized phone service center providing information
and receiving complaints about specific subprojects;
(d)   establishment of informationi posts in key project service sites, such as the regional offices
of FINDETER, the municipal hall, NGO buildings and parish social centers (brochures and
leaflets about Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios in general and specific
- 62 -



subprojects in the locality in particular would be made available in these posts);
(e)   a series of video-conferences for the staff of the organismos de gesti6n to explain all
project criteria and procedures, as well as changes thereof to avoid delays or
misinformation. The Earthquake Recovery Project suffered great difficulties in its initial
stage because the NGOs managing the reconstruction zones lacked timely access to such
information; and
(f)   regular TV programs to feature excellent projects, gross failures, main complaints and
most common questions.
b. Other key stakeholders
Other key stake holders include Mayors, heads of the local governmenits which have to provide
the counterpart funds for materials and specialized labor. Consultations have been held with the
Mayors of Santafe de Bogota, Valledupar and Manizales. They all support the Project and agreed
with its objective, incentive structure and procedures. They indicated that they would give this
project a very hiigh priority and would like to see it implemented immediately. A concern
expressed by one of the Mayors is the need to have clear procedures for allocating project
resources among the municipalities within theFINDETER regional office to avoid the risk of
political manipulation favoring proposals from communities where the regional office is located.
NGOs are another key stakeholder. The consultations with representatives of the Colombian
Confederation of NGOs as well as with leaders of NGOs from various regions of the country also
slhow a great amount of support for and interest in the Project. The conditions for NGOs to
participate as well as the responsibilities and functions proposed in the Operations Manual are
acceptable to them. Those conditions, responsibilities and functions are similar to the ones used in
the Reconstruction project.
Community Organizations such as Communal Action Boards (Juntas de Acci6n Comunal) and
Local Administrative Boards (Juntas Administradoras Locales) also have a stake in the Project.
They will most probably work in conijunictioin with the municipality as they usually do with other
community infrastructure projects. Some of the Community Action Boards are very experienced
and effective in community infrastructure projects, as it has been demonstrated in the Projects of
Santafe de Bogota and Medellin. These Boards could be developed as Organismos de Gesti6n.
- 63 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Institutional Organization and Flow of Funds
Organizational Chart of Red de Apoyo Social
ADMINISTRATIVE
DEPARTMENT
OF THE PRESIDENCY              INTERNAL
MON IT. &    >                 (DAPRE)                 , CONTROL
EVALUATION
-DNP-"i,
-DNP-    FONDO DE INVERSION
os PARA LA PAZ (FIP)      l
DMCRATIZATION & |RED DE APOYO                   SECURITY       PEACE 
SOCIAL      lSOCIAL                            AND         POESS 
DEVELOPMENT                                      JUSTICE
CEXTERNAL  )-   NT. C       .    l|STEERING COMMITTEE|
_~~NL CO RD
FINANCIAL AN                TRAINING FOR           S
ADMINISTRATIVE            UNEMPLOYED YOUTH          U
(            Ir  I   1-11 -                                       R
0.. LL  JUDICIAL OFFICE                CODTOA0
0                                        v _ ; SUBSIDIES _      G
4               .                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
COMMUNICATIONS                                        A
OFFICE                               OBR S
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OFFICE                                           _ 
MANAGEMENT |
INFORMATION
SYSTEM 
- 64 -



2.     Organizational Chart of Manos a la Obra: Proyectos Comunitarios
65 -



3.      Flow of Funds and Information
MULTILATBRAL
BANKS
Deposit the funds in the
Speciai Account
Banco de la Republica R
Receivesfunds and informsthe
DGTN.
NATIONAL TREASURY (DGTN)
DAPRE-FIP        a
Records Special Account transactions into the   Gives instructions to DGTN
SIF system. This information can be accessed    4  to make payments through
immediately by Credito Publico who then        the banks, using the SI F
would authorize disbursement.              system (see next chart).
A
NGOs'EAs  Consulta   &
Supplier
Beneficiaries        Suppliers of Goods
| FLOW OF FUNDS           -          l
|FLOW OFINFORMATION
- 66 -



4.     Flow of Funds under the SIIF System
4. Banco de la
Repuiblica debits                     National
the Special                           Treasury
Account for the                       (DGTN)
amount of payment
using the current
exchange rate.                                                              _
1. DAPRE-FIP through the SIIF
Banco de la                             authorizes payments against the
Republica                              Special Account. Entries should
(BR)                      g r        include required information of
beneficiaries (name, bank account
|   DAPRE-FIP  lnumber, amount and currency).
2. DAPRE-FIP through the SIIF
will also have access to the
following data: (i)PAC (Plan
Annual de Caja); (ii) balance of
the Special Account; and (iii)
Credito P6blico approvals.
INTEGRATE           X
FINANCIAI 
3. DAPRE-FIP will pay to NGOs
and EATs through the SIIF
including minor foreign payments
National Treasury..
NationalTreasu) y   according to Bank policies.
ENTMES
g ACTIVITIES                          7
-67 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26153
...- -.,.....MINtCAN   REP.
JAMAICA,,    A~,
ROORAS                 ,    Alnc
- COLeOM-'B-I  - -  -  :                                                vsX                 WS;NCARAGUA
12'                                                                                            12- - IA 
-  P RirJb-34J  <   5ANrAFEDE4 1  (l 7f-R GUIANA
'  -  I  - ATIA  Tw   1WW       V                  f                  i,  .
-Will m   Hedu rERU                                                BRAZIL
\CSAR  !                                                        "".
Mc'racwbc  Pac,flc         ~~~BOLIVIA
PANAMA                          Mter,                                                                         / [ARGENIA ' '
,\ NORTE\.                              7b    The boundaries, colors, denominations
E) E                         ~~~~~~~~~~and any other information showsn on
a P  >   \ QW)   JCORDOB Y  2   )    -SANTAJDERi                           this oup do not imply, on the part of
*C                                                                             The World Bonk Group, any judgment
\ EI'                \~cI                                                      an the legao status of any Ierr(tory, or
/                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any endorsement or acpac 
ucnrumonA   ~~                     such boundarjos-7  ~~
W A N          Q U I A     SANT                              A  R AUCA    .  VENEZUELA
Pac;/c                                               Coarre_ o
t 7 CASDANARE
TLLI
CA                                              Son Joee de Gunviore -H r   ,J I A
<        4 ~~~~~~A U0  A                                                                         G> 1) A    2t .                 >
g >t  -.              (          <'9( \+  u G U A V I A RE
ta    m            < y@~~~~~~~~~~~Florencio                           '             
/  \X                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A G (Q 49       -7f- -itua
. - M   pU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8   m   ~~~~~~~%,} ~~~~V  A  U  P tE                 '/
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0.
-' E  C    U    A    D     O  ,0   
N,           ~~~~MI LES
Y             Sk                  )     t   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50  100  150
**,  \       I0O   '  O   I 50  20 I 0  250
KILOMETERS
AMAZONAS
<B  R  A   Z  I  L
ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS              j_                                                                       r
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                            _                            7       -
@ DEPARTMENT CAPITALS           ,                 PERU
RIVERS
-* -  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                I                            /         /
%@ Leb;                                4'j
78-                                          74                                                7A S
AUGUST 1994



