Page  1
\08
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7017-CO
Loan Agreement
(Community Works and Employment Project - 
Manos a la Obra; Proyectos Comunitarios)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7017-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“DAPRE-FIP” means the Administrative Department of the 
Borrower's Presidency acting through Fondo de Inversión para la Paz, the 
Borrower's Investment Fund for the Peace;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for building 
materials, temporary workers' payments and consultants' services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“FINDETER” means Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial, a 
development financial institution owned by the Borrower, or any other 
entity, acceptable to the Bank, which may succeed such institution;
(e)
“FINDETER Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)  
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means any of the reports 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“NCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“RCU” means any of the units referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Subproject” means any of the activities carried out by the 
employment programs as set forth in Part A of the Project; 
(l)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Subproject Implementing Entity” means any non-governmental 
organization or labor cooperative (empresa asociativa de trabajo) which 
has been selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual for carrying out a Subproject; and
(n)
 “Subproject Proponent” means any municipality or other 
entity (including a Subproject Implementing Entity) which has submitted a 
Subproject for approval in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  3
Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount equal to one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of building materials, temporary 
workers' payments and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee 
in an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
Page  4
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objective of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, 
through DAPRE-FIP, with the assistance of FINDETER and the Subproject 
Implementing Entities, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with 
the Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce such Manual, or any 
provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall enter into an 
agreement with FINDETER, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank (the FINDETER Agreement), whereby FINDETER will undertake (i) to 
assist the NCU in the selection of Subproject Implementing Entities and 
in the preparation, appraisal and approval of Subprojects; and (ii) for 
the purposes of complying with its obligations under (i) above, to 
maintain regional units with structure, functions and staff satisfactory 
to the Bank (the RCUs).
(d)  
For the purposes of the carrying out of any subproject, the 
Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall enter into an agreement with the 
Subproject Proponent (when such Proponent is not the Subproject 
Implementing Entity) and the Subproject Implementing Entity, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Subproject Agreement), which 
shall be substantially similar to those of the model form contained in 
the Operational Manual, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer from 
the Borrower to the Subproject Implementing Entity of the funds required 
to pay temporary workers and building materials under such Subproject, as 
Page  5
provided in this Loan Agreement; (ii) the obligation of the Subproject 
Implementing Entity to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
provisions of this Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual; and (iii) 
if applicable, the obligation of the Subproject Proponent to provide 
funds and other resources for the carrying out of the Subproject.
(e)  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its 
obligations under the FINDETER Agreement and the Subproject Agreements in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the building materials and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall, not later than six 
months after each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, by 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, on the compliance with the procurement 
procedures for the Project during the year in question.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall establish and maintain, during 
the execution of the Project, a unit within DAPRE-FIP responsible for the 
management, coordination, supervision and evaluation of the Project, such 
unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (the 
NCU).
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall:
(a)  
not later than six months after the Effective Date, 
establish and thereafter maintain in the NCU during the execution of the 
Project a management information system for purposes of monitoring the 
Subprojects and keeping track of the temporary workers employed under the 
Subprojects;
(b)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(c)  
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about the 11th month after the Effective 
Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(d)  
review with the Bank, on the 12th month after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred 
to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Page  6
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall: (a) 
establish and maintain a steering committee, composed of representatives 
of the Borrower's agencies and ministries participating in the Borrower's 
social support network program (Red de Apoyo Social), with the 
responsibility of providing technical guidance and supervising the 
monitoring and evaluation of the several projects of the Borrower 
(including the Project) under such program; and (b) not later than 
February 28 of each year during the execution of the Project, furnish to 
the Bank a report on the activities of such committee in the calendar 
year preceding any such report.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall, through DAPRE-FIP, establish 
and maintain a financial management system in the NCU, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
of the Borrower related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, shall 
carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
six months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)  
The Borrower, through DAPRE-FIP, has adopted a manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), containing, inter 
alia, the detailed procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
including the procedures for the flow of funds to finance Subprojects, 
the requirements for submission of a Subproject by a Subproject 
Proponent, the criteria and procedures for selection of Subproject 
Implementing Entities, the criteria for selection and financing of 
Subprojects, including the requirements for assessment of the economic, 
Page  8
technical, financial, institutional, environmental and social aspects of 
Subprojects, the guidelines for mitigation of adverse environmental 
impacts of Subprojects, the rules and requirements for employment of 
temporary workers under the Subprojects, the financial management 
procedures for the Project, the procedures for procurement of building 
materials under the Subprojects, the eligibility criteria for Subproject 
Implementing Entities to receive financing for building materials under 
Subprojects, and the model of the Subproject Agreement.
(b)  
The FINDETER Agreement has been signed by the parties 
thereto.
(c)  
The NCU has been established, and its general coordinator, 
chief of the administrative and financial division, accountant, 
procurement specialist, environment specialist and chief of internal 
control, all with terms of reference and qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed.
(d)  
A transitory management information system (including the 
financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, has been installed in the NCU for 
use not longer than six months after the Effective Date, and the design 
and an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the installation of the 
management information system referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement have been furnished to the Bank.
(e)  
The steering committee referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement has been established and its members appointed.
Section 5.02.  The date January 19, 2001 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 
3509344
With copies to:
Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia
Fondo de Inversión para la Paz
Page  9
Calle 7, No. 6-54
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 
2844120
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno García
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Armitage
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.  General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
Page  10
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects:
(a) payment of
temporary workers
  75,000,000
100% (subject to
paragraph 2 (b) below)
(b) building materials 15,000,000
100% of amounts 
paid by the 
Borrower under
the Subproject 
Agreement
(2)
(a) Consultants' 
    1,400,000
100%
Services for the 
NCU and the RCUs
(b) Consultants' 
    5,030,000
services other than 
under (a) above, and 
training
(3)
Front-end fee
    1,000,000
Amount due
pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
    2,570,000
TOTAL
  100,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: 
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the amount of $2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures under Category (2) of the table above incurred before that 
date but after September 1, 1999 or within twelve months after the date 
of this Agreement, whichever is later; 
(b)  
any payment of temporary workers under Category (1) (a) of 
the table above which exceeds the amount of $93 equivalent per month for 
each temporary worker under any Subproject; and
(c)  
expenditures under Category (1) of the table above in 
respect of a Subproject, unless the corresponding Subproject Agreement 
has been entered into between the respective parties thereto.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for 
payments of temporary workers; and (b) under contracts for building 
materials, and consultants' contracts that are not subject to prior 
review by the Bank pursuant to Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars an account in the 
Page  11
Borrower's central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
Page  12
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of the Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means the amount of $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $3,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
Page  13
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of the Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of $20,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce poverty by providing 
temporary employment to poor workers, increase the net labor income of 
their families, and prevent deterioration of living standards in poor 
communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Carrying out of employment programs eligible for financing in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, consisting, 
inter alia, of minor construction, repair, expansion or remodeling works 
for schools, health facilities, basic sanitation facilities, cultural 
facilities, small urban roads and bridges, culverts and canals, 
environmental urban infrastructure, community centers, and houses (the 
Subprojects).
Part B:
Project Management
Page  14
1. 
Strengthening of the capacity of the NCU to manage and coordinate 
the carrying out of the Project, through the provision of specialized 
technical assistance and staff, the acquisition and use of appropriate 
office equipment, information systems, and communication services, and 
training, including the drafting of the Operational Manual and 
establishment of information systems.
2.
Carrying out of promotion campaigns and provision of technical 
assistance to Subproject Proponents in the preparation of Subprojects. 
Part C:
Subproject Evaluation
Carrying out of an evaluation of the impact of the Subprojects.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2005
 through September 15, 2016
4.17%
On March 15, 2017
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
Page  15
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Building Materials
Part A:
General
Building materials under Subprojects shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
 Shopping
Building materials under Subprojects shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  16
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during 
any calendar semester of Project implementation, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project during such semester shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all building 
materials during any such semester shall be undertaken in accordance with 
the corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to the review by the Bank of any contract.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Annex.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services (other than those of the Subproject Implementing 
Entities) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services (other than those of the Subproject Implementing Entities) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,560,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection of Subproject Implementing Entities
Pursuant to paragraph 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines, Subproject 
Implementing Entities shall be selected on the basis of an open national 
registry of such entities, in accordance with the procedures and criteria 
Page  17
set forth in the Operational Manual.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Minor services, such as those for organization of workshops and 
training logistics, costing in the aggregate not more than $30,000, may 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing in the 
aggregate up to $2,160,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals 
during any calendar semester of Project implementation, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project during such semester 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services during any such 
semester shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent but more 
than $70,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, and for the individual consultants to be employed by the NCU for 
the positions referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement 
regardless of the cost of their respective contracts, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments of individual consultants under 
Page  18
contracts costing $20,000 equivalent or more shall be subject to the 
Bank’s prior review and approval.
