Page  1
April 17, 2001
Dr. Juan Manuel Santos
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Palacio de los Ministerios,
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7ª, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá, Colombia 
Re:
Colombia - Loan 7017-CO 
(Community Works and Employment Project)
First Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced Project between the 
Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) dated October 20, 2000 (The Loan Agreement).
Pursuant to recent discussions between the Borrower and the Bank, we are pleased 
to inform you that we agree to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
A new paragraph 5 is hereby added in Part C (Other Procedures for the Selection 
of Consultants), Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, to read as follows:
"5.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the supervision of works under Part A of the Project, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines."
2.
Paragraph 1, Part C, Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby 
amended, and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"1.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services (other than those of the Subprojects Implementing Entities) estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$2,760,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines."
3.
Paragraph 4, Part C, Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby 
amended, and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
Consultant’s services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate up to 
$1,960,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines."
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing this 
letter in the space provided and returning it to us. This amendment shall be executed 
in two counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original. The amendment shall 
become effective as of the date of this letter, upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of such letter.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
AGREED
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Manuel Santos
Minister of Finance
Date:
June 6, 2001
