Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7890
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1426-GU)
JUNE 23, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
W&:.hingsoom DC 20433
U.SA
Opmusta# IwlAuhumfi
June 23, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt   Project Completion Report on Guatemala
Apuacapa Power Project (Loan 1426-GU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Guatemala - Aguacapa Power Project (Loan 1426-GU)'
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of
this project he.a been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document ha a rtricted distfibution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GUATEMALA                  FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ......................................................        (i)
BASIC DATA SHEET .............................................       (ii)
HIGHLIGHTS ...................................................        (v)
CHAPTER I:        BACKCROUND
1.1    Bank Lending to the Sector ...............
1.2    Electric Power Sector Organization                     1
1.3 References.                                               2
CHAPTER II:       PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1 Origin.                                                   2
2.2 Preparation.                                              3
2.3  Appraisal and Negotiations.                              3
2.4  Project Description.                                     4
2.5    Estimated Project Cost and Financing                   5
CHAPTER III:      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
3.1    Generation/Transmissiotn Component ....... ...         5
3.2    Start-Up ................................. ..          5
3.3  Execution Timetable.                                     5
3.4  Major Execution Problems.                                6
3.5 Procurement.                                              9
3.6    The Consultant,s Services and Organization
Strengthening Component.                            9
3.7    Project Cost and Finatcing .10
3.8 Disbursements .11
3.9    Performance of Consultants, Contractor and
Suppliers .11
3.10   Covenants ...................................         14
CHAPTER IV:      PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
4.1  Project Achievements .14
4.2 Load Growth .15
4.3    Rate of Return on Investment .15
CHAPTER V:        FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.1    Comparison of Actual and Forecast Data                16
5.2    INDE's Financial Performance .17
5.3  EEG Financial Performance .17
CHAPTER VI:       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.1  The Borro-3r and the Bank .18
6.2 Governent .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offirial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Page No.
CHAPTER VII:     LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
7.1    Phased Objectives for Institutional
Development ...............................      19
t.2   Compliance with Agreements ..................       19
7.3   Extensive Project Preparation ...............       19
7.4   Procurement Planning ........................       20
7.5   Definition of Construction Supervision
Responsibilities ..........................      20
A.iNEXES:
Annex 1.1  - Sources of Infomation .21
Annex 3.1  - Actual and Forecast Timetable of Project
Implementation .22
Annex 3.2  - Comparison of Actual and Estibzated Volumes
of Works .23
Annex 3.3  - Comparison of Actual and Forecast Costs           24
Annex 3.4  - Cost of Tunnel Repairs .26
Annex 3.5  - Comparison of Actual and Forecast
Financing Plan .27
Annex 3.6  - Comparison of Forecast and Actual Loan
Disbursement .28
Annex 3.7  - Key Loan and Guarantee Agreement Covenants        29
Annex 4.1  - Comparison of Forecast and Actual Sales
to Final Consumers .31
Annex 4.2 - Return of Investment .32
Annex 5.1  - INDE - Actual and Forecast Income
Statement (1976 - 1985) .33
- INDE - Actual and Forecast Sources and
Applications of Funds Statements
(1976-1985) .......................            34
- INDE - Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets
Statements (1976-1985) .35
Annex 5.2  - EEG - Actual and Forecast Income
Statements (1976-1985) .36
- EEG - Actual and Forecast Sources and
Applications of Funds Statements
(1976-1985) .37
- EEG - Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets
Statements (1976-1985) .38
Annex 5.3  - Power Sector - Actual and Forecast Income
Statements (1976-1985) .39
- Power Sector - Actual and Forecast Sources
and Applications of Funds Statements
(1976-1985) .40
- Power Sector - Actual and Forecast
Balance Sheets Statements (1976-1985)          41
Annex 5.4  - Performance Indicators .42
Annex 5.5  - Comments from the Executing Agency                43



ti)
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Aguacapa Power
Project, which was partially financed by Loan 1426-GU (US$55.0 million
equivalent). The Borrower was Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
(INDE). The PCR was issued by the Infrastructure Division of Country
Department II and prepared by staff of the Infrastructure Division of
Country Department IV, both of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office, based on information in the Bank files, a final report prepared by
the Borrower and discussions with former and current staff of the Bank and
the Borrower.
2.        This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for comments and
they are annexed to the Report (Annex 5.5).



(ii)
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (1426-GU1)
KEY PROJECT DATA
APPRAISAL        ACTUAL OR CURRENT
ITEM                               EXPECTATION          _   STIMATE
Total Proiect Cost
(excluding interest during
construction, US$ million
equivalent)                              100.0                  183.2
Cost Overrun (C)                                 -                  83.2
Loan Amount (US$ million)                    55.0                   5-.0
Disbursed                                  55.0                   55.0
Cancelled                                      -                     -
Repaid (as of 12/31/87)                   28.49                  28.49
Outstanding                               26.51                  30.06 2/
Date Physical Components Completed          06/79                  10/81
Time Overrun: Months                             -                    29
z                                                      107
Internal Rate of Return (Z)                  14.9                   10.0
Financial Performance                Satisfactory 1/                Weak 3/
Institutional Performance               Improving                   Weak
1/ Required to earn 9? on revalued assets annually after project
completion.
2/  Includes US$ 3.55 million due to currency adjustment in the Bank's
Central Disbursement Account.
3/ Assets were not revalued. Rates of return on historical assets for the
period 1982-1985 were on the average about 9.4Z, which compares to an
average of 12.82 estimated at appraisal.



(iii)
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of       Staff-   Date of
Type of Mission   Month/Year    Weeks       Persons     Weeks    Reports
Identification/
Preparation 1/   03-08/75       1.5          2            3     08/75
Appraisal           02176          3           1            3
04/76         2            2            3
1           1            1     5/4/77
10
Supervision I       11177         1.5          1.          1.5    12/22/77
Supervision II      09/78         1            1           1      10/30178
Supervision III    05/79          1            2           2      6'8/79
Supervision IV      10/79         1.5          1           1.5    11/21/79
Supervision V       08/80         0.5          1.          0.5    8/29/80
Supervision VI      09/80         0.8 2/       1           0.8    10/27/80
Supervision VII    02/81          0.4 2/       3           1.2    3/16/81
Supervision VIII   10/81          1            2          2       11/6/81
10.5
1/ Four missions in March, April, July and August, 1975 for the Power
Sector Review helped identify and prepare the project. Number of weeks
shown is an estimate for the Aguacapa Power Project only.
2/ Joint mission with other projects. Number of weeks shown is an
estimate for the Aguacapa Power Project only.



(iv)
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Plan         Revision        Actual
First Mention in Project File   -                 -              12/31/74
Government Loan A.pplication     -                -              04/18175
Negotiations                                     1- 01'26/77
Board Approval Date              03/22/77         -              05/17/77
Loan Agreement Date              -                -              06/10/77
Effectiveness Date               06/15/77         09/14/77       02/07/78
Closing Date                     12/31/79         12/31/80       10/31/81
Borrower                         INDE             -              INDE
Executing Agency                 INDE             -              INDE
Fiscal Year of Borrower          Calendar Year   -               Calendar Year
Follow-on Project Name           Ch;xoy           -              Chixoy
Loan Number                                     -              1605-GU
Amount (US$ million)                            -              116.6 1/
Loan Agreement Date                             -              07/21/78 1/
1/ Amount includes US$44.6 million of a supplemental loan signed on
3/22/85.
EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency                          Quetzal (Q)
Exchanae Rate
At Appraisal                      US$1.00 = Q 1.00
Intervening years                 US$1.00 = Q 1.00
Completion Date                   USSl.00 = Q 1.00



(v)
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       Loan 1426-GU (US$55.0 million equivalent) helped to finance the
construction of the 90 MW Aguacapa Hydroelectric Power Plant and
associated 230 kV transmission facilities. Consultant services for
personnel administration, planning, financial management, and studies were
financed by INDE's own resources and not by the Bank, as originally
envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report.
2.       The Project was successful in meeting the objectives of increasing
the generation capacity and associated transmission facilities in order to
meet the expected demand increases and of saving fuel by replacing thermal
generation. The Project was not successful: (i) in strengthening the
financial planning and personnel organization and management, because the
functioning of the Departments of Planning, Finance and Personnel that were
created was not satisfactory; and (ii) in carrying out studies relative to
tariff, revaluation of assets and a new office building, because none of
the studies was actually implemented.
3.       No effective progress was achieved in reorganizing the sector
during the course of the Project, in spite of the studies completed by a
commission appointed by the Government and the interest of the Bank in a
more efficient secto_ orgarization.
4.       The Aguacapa Hydroelectric Plant was commissioned in October 1981,
with a delay of nearly two-and-a-half years with respect to the appraisal
estimates due to procurement problems and to failure of the power tunnel
lining. Plant cost was US$183 million, with an overrun of 83Z witil respect
to the appraisal estimate. After 11 months of operation, the power house
was flooded and because of an unsettled insurance coverage, one of the
damaged generators has not yet been replaced, thus reducing the plant
capacity to 60 MW.
5.       The financial performance of INDE was weak during the period
1977-83 due to inflation, decrease in sales as a consequence of economic
recession and cost overruns and delays of the Aguacapa and Chixoy Projects.
Government contributions, much higher than expected at appraisal, were
necessary to bridge the financing gap created by the aforementioned
factors.



GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Aguacapa Power Project (Loan 1426-GU)
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      Bank Lending to the Sector
1.1.1    The Bank has supported the development of the Power Sector in
Guatemala since 1967, through six loans to INDE totalling US$263.6 million,
out of which the Aguacapa Power Project (Loan 1426-GU of June 1977, US$55.0
million) was the third operation. The two projects prior to Aguacapa were
the 60 MW Jurun-Marinala Hydroelectric Project (Loan 487-GU of March 1967,
US$15 million) and the Thermal Power Project (Loan 545-GU of June 1968,
US$7.0 million). A review of the power sector was carried out in August
1975. The main conclusions of this review were that, although the Bank had
played a large part in the expansion of Guatemala's power supply and in
helping to establish INDE as the main institution in the power sector, it
could have contributed more to the solution of the two most serious
problems -- the sector's poor financial performance arising mainly from the
unsatisfactory arrangements between Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
(INDE) and Empresa Electrica de Guatemala (EEG) (para. 1.2), and the lack
of development of the country's hydroelectric resources. Accordingly, Bank
assistance was designed to address both these problems through the
financing of the Aguacapa Hydroelectric Project and later by the Chixoy
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1605-GU of July 1978, US$72.0 million and
Supplemental 1605-1-GU -jf March 1985, US$44.6 million). A new lcan for
US$70.0 million (Power Distribution Project, Loan 2724-GU), was signed on
June 7, 1988; it had been approved in June 1986 for the amount of US$81.0
million. This project will support expansion of EEG's distributior system
and INDE's establishment of a national dispatch center and carrying out of
hydroelectric feasibility studies.
1.2      Electric Power Sector Organization
1.2.1    Public electricity service is provided by INDE, EEG and eleven
small municipal utilities. INDE was created in 1959 as a Government-owned
institution responsible for power generation and transmission, rural
electrification, the supply of bulk electricity, and retail distribution
outside the area of the capital city. EEG, a former subsidiary of Boise
Cascade (USA), became a mixed public and private enterprise in 1977; it is
controlled by INDE and is responsible for electricity distribution in
Guatemala City and its environs.
1.2.2    Lack of coordination and institutional weakness of INDE have been
a major problem ir- the energy sector. EEG operated thermal generation and
electricity distribution in Guatemala City and its environs, i.e., the most
profitable portion of the market, with sales concentrated in a small area



- 2 -
comprising most industrial and high income users. As a result, a
significant part of the sector's financial resources was generated by EEG.
Because of resistance by EEG, INDE ras for many years unable to obtain a
share of the sector's cash generation in accordance with its investment
needs to meet the required expansion of generation capacity and provision
of service to remote, low income rural areas. As a result, installation of
new generation capacity did not always keep pace with growing -ieeds, and
there have been periods of service curtailments.
1.2.3    Over the last five years, the Government has taken a number of
significant steps to improve coordination and develop INDE's institutional
capacity. First, a Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) was created in 1983
to formulate the country's energy policies, coordinate planning activities,
and take executive responsibilities for the development of hydrocarbons.
Second, the Government transferred to INDE its shares in EEG, completed a
number of studies to strengthen INDE, increased its planning capacity,
appointed the same President for INDE and EEG, and created a joint INDE-EEG
committee to coordinate the system's operation. Lastly, the Government
established in 1985 a commission presided over by the Ministry of Energy
and Mines and comprising the Minister of Economy, the Secretary General of
Planning, and the President of INDE to formulate policies for the power
sector, including development strategy, investment plans, and tariffs. The
responsibility for overall supervision of INDE was shifted from the
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works to MEM. Presently,
INDE and EEG have the same President and the same Board of Directors; and
coordination in the sector and cooperation between technical staff of INDE
atnd EEG have i ,proved. The presence of the Bank through the Aguacapa,
Chixoy and Power Distribution Projects has been instrumental in achieving
these institutional improvements. Much, however, remains still to be done
in all the areas discussed.
1.3      References
1.3.1    Sources of information on which this PCR is based are listed in
Annex 1.1.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1      Origin
2.1.1    The Government that took office in 1974 adopted as a major policy
objective the development of the coulntry's hydroelectric potential. The
Government's new emphasis coincided with the completion of the first phase
of a master plan for the development of the electric system which grew out
of discussions between the Bank and the Guatemalan authorities in 1972 and
was financed by a technical assistance grant from the Federal Republic of
Germany. Vi.'s work enabled the Government for the first time to base its
power investment program on a comprehensive long-range plan. The medium-
term program which had been developed from individual project studies was
confirmed by the May 1976 master plan and contained the Aguacapa
Hydroelectric Project for operation in 1979.



-3-
2.2      Preparation
2.2.1    Engineering studies and design of Aguacapa were done by Swiss
consultants under financing from the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI). Pre-feasibilit1 was completed in December 1975 and
feasibility in June 1976. During the initial project preparation stage the
size of the plant had been tentatively set at 60 MW. Subsequent project
designs, refined cost estimates, and economic analyses justified increasing
plant calacity to 90 MW, principally by the higher fuel saving that could
be obtained. In addition, the increase would offset possible delays in the
commissioning of the Chixoy Project.
2.2.2    The increase in the capacity, along with some refined cost
estimates motivated the Bank to increase the amount of the loan from US$35
million, as considered in mid 1975, to US$55 million. The Bank had
considered financing the whole foreign cost of the plant, except for
engineering, which had already been assured by CABEI.
2.2.3    Missions in connection with the power sector review discussed the
Aguacapa Project with INDE and Government in the framework of the sector
investment program in March, April, July, and August 1975. They helped
prepare the project. Because of staff constraints, the appraisal was
carried out by two missions, the first by the engineer alone in
February/March 1976 and the second by the engineer, the financial analyst,
and a lawyer, in April 1976. One of the important issues identified in the
Issues Paper of June 1976 was procurement; three of the four major
contracts had been awarded before Bank's loan approval. A visit of a
Guatemalan delegation in June to agree on procurement matters with the
Bank, was followed by a Bank appraisal follow-up mission in August and by
another visit of a Guatemalan delegation in September to discuss
procurement matters and follow-up on loan processing.
2.3      Appraisal and Negotiations
2.3.1    The appraisal mission was much concerned with the sector's
organization and with INDE's internal structure, excess of unskilled
workers and lack of specialized technicians and experienced professional at
mid-management level. Unavailability of a financial analyst delayed
preparation of the appraisal report. Negotiations were completed by the
end of January 1977 without substantive changes in the draft loan
documents. During negotiations, the project implementation schedule was
reviewed and performance indicators were identified and mutually agreed
upon for use in project implementation. The Board of Executive Directors
approved the loan in mid-May 1977. Declaration of effectiveness of the
Second Education Loan, signed in March 1976, and of two loans for
Earthquake Reconstruction, signed in August 1976 were conditions of Board
presentation of the Aguacapa Project, causing its delay. Also, after
negotiations, the Bank learned that EEG intended to buy two gas turbines
that were not included in the sector investment program which had been
agreed upon during negotiations. This issue was resolved to the
satisfaction of the Bank through appropriate economic justification of the
new investment. However, this matter delayed Board presentation.
2.3.2    The Bank conditioned effectiveness of the loan and guarantee
agreements on: (i) the execution by the Government, INDE and EEG of a



- 4 -
subsidiary contract to ensure that EEG, not a party to the agreement with
the Bank, would take all necessary actions in respect of adequacy of EEG
revenues, assessment of EEG's tariffs and asset revaluation; (ii) the
increases of electricity tariffs as agreed; and (iii) the approval of a
loan of at least US$17 million by the Fon(do de Inversiones de Venezuela
(FIV) (or other source satisfactory to the Bank) to help meet the project's
1977 financial requirements. The loan became effective in February 1974
requiring postponement of the effectiveness terminal date, initially set in
Section 7.03 of the L.A. as September 14, 1977. Delays were caused by the
following: (i) Congress approved the loan in mid-December; and (ii) by end
of January the Bank took the decision to waive dated covenants that had not
been complied with and could be considered conditions of effectiveness,
namely level of accounts receivable from public sector and actions for
organization strengthening and studies.
2.4      Project Description
2.4.1    On the basis of the findings of the appraisal mission, the Project
consisted of:
A.   Generation
(1)    Construction of a concrete gravity diversion dam in the
Aguacapa River (90,000 m3) and a reservoir of 300,000 m3 for
daily regulation;
(2)    Construction of a concrete lined power tunnel of 2.7 m inside
diameter, and 12 km in length;
(3)    Construction of a steel penstock of inside diameter between 2.4
and 2.7 m and 3.7 km in length; and
(4)    Construction of a surface power station with three 30 MW
generating units.
B.    Transmission
(1)    Construction of step-up transformation facilities at the power
plant (10/230 kV, 3 x 37.5 MVA);
(2)    Construction of a 230 kV switching station at about 500 m
downstream from the power plant; and
(3)    Construction of a 230 kV single-circuit transmission line to
the existing Escuintla substation (25 km).
C.    Consultant's Services and Organization Strengthening
(1)    Completion of a study reviewing the value of the fixed assets
of INDE and EEG and proposing adequate methods for its
periodical reevaluation;
(2)    Preparation and implementation of a program to assist INDE in
financial planning and in the improvement of all its
accounting, budgeting and treasury functions, including the
creation of a finance department.



(3)    Preparation and implementation of a program for staff
upgrading.
(4)    Reorganization of the planning staff into a planning
department.
(5)    Completion of a study on tariff structure and levels.
(6)    Planning of the construction of the new office building.
2.5      Estimated Project Cost and Financing
2.5.1    The estimated cost of the project excluding financing charges was
US$100 million. The US$59.5 million foreign currency component would be
financed by the Bank's loan (US$55 million) and CABEI (US$4.5 million).
The US$40.5 million local currency component would be financed by CABEI
(US$4.3 million), FIV (US$22.0 million) and internal cash generation and
Government capital transfers (US$14.2 million). Financing charges would
amount to US$11.2 million (all in foreign currency) being financed by FIV
(US$8.0 million) and internal cash generation and Government capital
transfers (US$3.2 million). The participation of CABEI was limited to the
engineering studies and was defined prior to an assurance of Bank
participation in the project. FIV's participation in the project was
coordinated with the Bank.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
3.1      Ge:teration/Transmission Component
3.1.1    Due to its overwhelming weight in the Project, the
generation/transmission component will be discussed separately under the
headings to follow; the management consultant services components will be
discussed later in the chapter.
3.2      Start-up
3.2.1    The long time (eight months) between loan sig:ing (June 1977) and
declaration of effectiveness (February 1978) did not delay project
execution because procurement started during the project preparation phase
and payments to contractors and suppliers were made using funds advanced by
the Government. Funds were later reimbursed to the Government.
3,3      Execution Timetable
3.3.1    Annex 3.1 presents appraisal and actual timetables for the various
project components. The execution of generation and transmission works was
organized under four lots:
1. Plant civil works
2. Plant hydromechanical equipment supply and erection
3. Electromechanical equipment supply and erection
4. Transmission line material supply and erection.



- 6 -
3.3.2    Actual plant operation was in October 1981, a delay of 29 months
with respect to appraisal estimate. The bidding and rebidding of lot 1
(para. 3.5.2) caused a 17 month delay in the start of the civil works.
Repairs of the tunnel lining which cracked during pressure tests
(para. 3.4.6) took 14 months. Had it not been for tunnel failures, project
execution would have taken 32 months (four months less than the 36 months
estimated in the appraisal) and would have allowed plant completion in June
1980 as compared to the appraisal estimate of May 1979. At the latter
date, the physical progress of the project was as follow-: civil works -
65Z; hydromechanical equipment - 612; electromechanical equipment - 55Z,
transmission line - 80Z.
3.4      Major Execution Problems
3.4.1    Three major problems were encountered during construction which
significantly delayed commercial operation and increased project costs
considerably.  These problems were related to the dam foundation, tunnel
lining, and flooding of the powerhouse.
3.4.2    Dam Foundation.  Work began on the dam around April 1977.  Based
on the review of the consultant's progress report of June 1977 and
supervision of the dam foundation works in November 1977, the Bank
concluded that suitable material had not been encountered at depths
indicated from geologic investigations for the feasibility study.
Consequently, the Bank requested INDE to instruct their consultants to
prepare a comprehensive report on the subject. The report was prepared by
March 1978, and then, also at the request of the BanL, INDE's independent
board of consultants carried out a comprehensive investigation on the dam
foundation designs and construction procedures under terms of reference
prepared by the Bank.
3.4.3.   The principal conclusion of the board, stated in their report of
September 1978 was: 'The presence of unconsolidated sediments beneath
Blocks 1 to 5 and a portion of Block 6 of the Aguacapa dam requires a re-
examination of the stability of the structure, as now designed and
partially built. Without a positive cut-off to rock the present design
cannot be considered to satisfy current criteria with respect to subsurface
piping. The sliding stability of the blocks on soil also appears
questionable. Problems of differential settlement of the dam and potential
liquefaction of saturated sand portions of the foundation during strong
earthquakes must be solved for this foundation. The board believes that it
is technically feasible to resolve these problems and has recommended
additional foundation exploration, sampling, and testing to obtain the
necessary data for design."
3.4.4.   Subsequently, suitable design adjustments recommended by the board
were incorporated in the dam foundation to ensure its safety. But this
delayed completion of the dam by about six months and increased its cost by
about US$1.5 million.
3.4.5    Tunnel Lining.  Tunnel construction began in November 1977 and was
completed in March 1980, or two months shorter than the period originally
estimated. However, the project was already some eight months behind
schedule due principally to rebidding required for the civil works contract
and ineffective interim construction by INDE with own forces.



- 7 -
3.4.6    Filling of the tunnel for testing was done between May 26 and June
6, 1980. At the designed static internal pressure, measurements of flows
into the tunnel detected a seepage of about 3.5 m3/s out of the tunnel,
considered to be excessive; filling was stopped and dew.tering for
inspection took place between June 6 and 10, when extensive longitudinal
cracks were observed in the unreinforced concrete lining (about 70Z of tlle
corresponding length, ranging from hair-line fissures to 5 mm. wide
cracks).
3.4.7    The board of consultants was requested to review and analyze the
construction of the tunnel, to recommend field investigations and propose
measures for repairing it. It concluded that the excessive loss of water
from the tunnel had been caused by cracking of the unreinforced concrete
lining under the designed internal pressure and was due to: (a) the
designers counting on the tensile strength of concrete to contribute in
resisting internal pressures, without specifying or providing for special
temperature control measure during casting of the concrete. (Thermal
tensile stresses caused by concrete with high cement content reduced to a
considerable extent the relatively low available strength of the lining);
and (b) the elasticity (static modulus of deformation) of the tuffaceous
rocks ':ncountered in more than 75Z of tunnel was substantially lower than
assumed in the design. Hence, the rock did not provide sufficient support
to the lining in the design.
3.4.8    During the period in which the tunnel was empty, additional field
and laboratory tests of in situ rock properties and concrete were made to
supplement the available data on design assumptions and construction of the
tunnel lining. On the basis of this information, the design was changed,
the tunnel reinforced and after the repair, the water loss during the
tunnel re-filling WdS only about 1OZ of the maximum allowable. The board
also noted that the need to assume very low values of deformation for
tuffaceous materials had only recently (late 1970's) been generally
recognized mainly as a result of similar lining failures in pressure
tunnels in several countries. Paradoxically, before the design of the
Aguacapa tunnel, the same consultants had designed the repairs in the
lining of the Arenal power tunnel in Costa Rica, which was built under
similar geologic conditions but designed by others.
3.4.9    In their report of July 1980, on the tunnel tests and inspection,
the consultantsl contend that their design was technically sound and
economic and had they opted for more conservative design criteria, (i.e. a
practically water-tight lining), the incremental cost for the reinforcing
would have been at least US$13 million and would have required at least ten
more months to complete it, which would have delayed commercial operation
to May 1981. They also estimated repairs of the lining to cost about US$8
million and take six months to complete (December 1981). However, by
January 15, 1981, their estimate for repairs had jumped to US$25.8 million
and completion had been extended to Spptember 1981. Based on data
available in the Bank, it appears that the difference between the May 1981
and December 1981 cost Lstimates prepared by the consultant for the repairs
of the tunnel lining were due principally to the three-fold increase in
1/ INDE does not agree with this point of the consultants. See Annex 5.5.



- 8-
steel lining.  However, the significant cost increase (US$13.8 million)2
between the December 1981 estimate and final ce3ts in tunnel lining repairs
(Annex 3.4) cannot be explained by available records in the Bank.
3.4.10   Flooding of the Powerhouse.  During the final stages of
construction, around October 1979, the river flooded the powerhouse,
causing considerable damage to the installed electrical equipment. The
consultants attributed the responsibility for this accident to the civil
contractor for not having provided adequate protection to the powerhouse
against high waters during construction and the poor practice of dumping
into the river channel excavated material from powerhouse and penstock
foundations thereby constricting the channel. However, after the
contractor cleaned and widened the channel at the powerhouse and built a
protective wall designed by the consultant, the powerhouse was flooded
again, but this time apparently while most of the river flow was passing
through the turbines as the power plant was already in operation. The
reasons for the floodings have not been clearly explained by INDE.3
3.4.11   The flooding of the power house after 11 months of commercial
operation damaged the generating units and INDE used components of one unit
to repair the two others, while submitting a claim to the insurance
company. Until now, INDE has been unable to reach a settlement with the
insurers that would allow the repair of the cannibalized unit. It is
expected that this unit would be back in operation by 1990, contingent upon
INDE reaching an agreement with the insurers in the third quarter of 1988.
3.4.12   Changes in volumes of works.  Annex 3.3 shows the differences in
actual and estimaLed volumes of works by work front for excavation,
filling, concrete and steel. Excavation doubled (mainly because of
considerable increases for the penstock, power house and substation) use of
concrete increased 36Z (mainly because the tunnel required twice as much as
the estimated amount) and use of steel nearly doubled (because of a ten-
fold increase in the tunnel steel lining).
2/ This difference refers only to civil works. It does not include US$3.8
million for: (i) engineering and administration; and (ii) delay in
testing of electromechanical equipment (Annex 3.4) which were not
included in the consultant's estimate. The US$13.8 million difference
is composed of the following increments with respect to the
consultant's estimate: (i) US$12.5 million in works and materials
(including part of the steel plates for the tunnel lining) supplied by
the main civil works contractor; and (ii) US$1.3 million in steel
plates for the tunnel lining supplied by the hydromechanical equipment
contractor.
3/ INDE stated in its project completion report that due to delays in the
topographic survey of the powerhouse site, the !.-ierhouse was located
in an unfavorably narrow area. This does not see.~m reasonable because
the existing topographic information at the time of the feasibility
study was sufficient to locate the powerhouse.



-9-
3.5      Procurement
3.5.1    Procurement of equipment, materials and construction services
financed by the Bank was done through ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. INDE's contract award recommendations for three
(electromechanical equipment, hydromechanical equipment and tr..tsmission
line) of the four contracts were reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank
before loan approval to expedite project execution.
3.5.2    Award of the largest contract (civil works) was complicated by
INDE's proposed partial award, to each of two contractors who presented
bids for the complete works. Even though the bidding documents were
prepared by experienced international consultants and were reviewed by the
Bank, they did not specify how the splitting of the award would be
evaluated. In particular, they did not set a criterion for splitting the
overhead costs presented by the bidders for the whole lot into the possible
sub-lots. Letters of intent based on partial and provisional awards were
submitted by INDE to the two bidders. The bidder that did not present the
lowest evaluated bid for the complete lot signed the letter of intent for
its part of the work before the Bank could review the borrower's evaluation
report.   ThE bidder which presented the lowest evaluated bid for the
complete lot did not reach an agreement with INDE as to a contract for
partial execution of the civil works.
3.5.3    Fearing that the award of the civil works contracts could escalate
into a political controversy with international repercussions, the
Government decided to rebid. CPS and LAC Projects after reviewing closely
the original evaluation report concluded that the consultant's
recommendation (splitting of the award with savings of US$15,000,
equivalent to 0.04% of the cost of the complete lot) was not justified and
the Bank pressed the Government to award the contract to the bidder with
the lowest evaluated bid for the complete lot. Nevertheless, Government
cancelled the tendering. The contract involved represented about 80% of
the Bank's loan. In the interest of avoiding abortion of a major project
at a mature stage, the Bank accepted the cancellation of the bidding
process. Retendering resulted in the award of the civil works contract to
a single contractor for an amount of US$39.3 million, as compared to the
lowest offer of US$42.0 million in the first tender. Time consumed in
arriving at a decision on the outcome of the first tender and in the
retendering process caused one year delay in the start of the civil works.
3.6      The Consultant's Services and Organization Strengthening Component
3.6.1    INDE set up the financial department within the envisaged deadline
and met the purpose of concentrating in one unit the accounting, budgetary
and treasury functions. The studies for improving accounting practices and
data processing, albeit satisfactory, were completed 3 years beyond the
initially agreed date with the Bank due to late hiring of consultants and a
prolonged duration of the studies.
3.6.2    The asset revaluation study of INDE was only completed in 1982,
about four years after the agreed date due to late hiring of the
consultants and problems with the execution of the study (para. 3.9.6).
The similar study for EEG was completed much earlier and carried out



- 10 -
without major difficulties.  The studies concluded that INDE'S and EEG's
net assets in service as of December 31, 1979 were undervalued by 84Z and
781 respectively. Although found satisfactory by the Bank, the
recommendations were not implemented. INDE and EEG have always been
reluctant to have their assets revalued. The Bank did not press INDE and
the Government to fulfill their commitment and lost credibility. Although
implementation of asset revaluation for the sector was a covenant in the
Chixoy Project, it was not carried out either. Under the Power
Distribution Loan, it was agreed that INDE and the Government would update
the assets revaluation studies and incorporate their results into the
accounting system. Until now, this has not materialized.
3.6.3    An experienced financial analyst was hired by INDE within the time
agreed with the Bank to lead the financial analysis unit of the planning
group. This planning group was reorganized into a department within the
rescheduled date, (June 30, 1979, a year later than the date set in the
Loan Agreement. The study on tariff structure and levels was completed
four years later than the date agreed (which was revised several times) due
to late hiring of the consultants. The consultant's report was made
available to the Bank, however, INDE never presented to the Bank its
comments on the oroposal made by the consultant or a plan of tariff
restructuring prepared by INDE staff based on the work done with the
consultant. The tariff study became a component of the Chixoy Hydropower
Project (Loan 1651-GU) because the Bank felt such study was still necessary
and consultant's collaboration should be ensured for their proper carrying
out. The preparation of this study was a good experience for the Planning
Department, but it was not implemented or updated by them (para. 6.1.2).
3.6.4    INDE completed the design of its new headquarters some two years
later than the agreed date due to late hiring of the architect. Due to the
difficult financial position of the sector, and the need for tariff
increases, Government and INDE considered politically unwise to build a new
office building for INDE. The Bank accepted their position and INDE
continues to pay a high administrative price for the scattering of its
personnel in many buildings throughout the city. In addition, the main
office building does not provide INDE's staff with m'-nimal acceptable
working conditions.
3.6.5    The studies on personnel administration were satisfactorily
completed by end of 1981, tbree-and-half years late with respect to the
schedule initially agreed with the Bank due to late hiring of the
consultants. These studies would have provided a sound foundation for the
operation of the Personnel Department created in 1983.
3.7      Project Cost and Financing
3.7.1    Annex 3.3 shows a comparison of the estimated and actual costs of
the generation/transmission component. Cost overrun amounted to US$83.2
million (or 83Z of the estimated project cost at appraisal) and resulted
from civil works (US$51.4 million or 62Z of the cost overrun),
hydromechanical and electrical equipment (US$15.3 million or 18Z),
engineering and administration (US$10.2 million or 12Z) and infrastructure
(US$6.4 million or 8?). Most of the cost overrun in civil works was due to
the tunnel lining repairs (US$39.6 million. Annex 3.4). If costs are



- 11 -
compared on the basis of the cost structure presented in the SAR (base
cost, physical conting*ncies and price contingencies) nearly 90Z of this
cost increase can be explained by differences in the physical contingencies
(US$45.6 million or 55Z of the cost overrun), price contingencies (US$18.0
million or 222) and engineering and administration (US$10.0 million without
contingencies, as presented in the SAR, or 122). Again, the tunnel lining
repairs explain nearly 90Z of the above difference in the physical
contingencies.
3.7.2    Annex 3.5 presents a comparison between the SAR forecast and
actual financing of the Project. The 80% increase in the cost of the
project was absorbed by INDE's internal cash generation and Government
capital transfers. As a result, Government/INDE participation in the total
project financing requirements increased from a forecast level of less than
202 to an actual level of more than 50Z.
3.8      Disbursements
3.8.1    The Joan was intended to be quickly disbursed:  two and a half
years from the originally planned effectiveness date (June 1977) to closing
date (December 1979). The loan was fully disbursed by October 1981, an
almost two-year delay with respect to the initial closing date (Annex 3.6).
By the latter date two thirds of the loan had been disbursed. By the end
of the following semester - June 30, 1978 - 932 of the loan had been
disbursed. Had it not been for rebidding of the civil works, which delayed
effective start of the project by almost one and a half years (para.
3.3.2), disbursement of the loan would have been satisfactory. Closing
dates were postponed initially to December 31, 1980 and then to June 30,
1981.
3.8.2    The amount assigned for financing consultant's services (Part C of
the project, para. 2.4.1) in the Loan Agreement, US$250,000 was eventually
disbursed against the plant civil works. The consultant's services were
funded by INDE's own resources.
3.9      Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.9.1    The performance of the plant general consultant4   was not
satisfactory. Excessive additional construction costs and substantive
delays in project work completion are directly attributable to designs
based on overly optimistic criteria, as discussed in paras. 3.4.2 to 3.4.9.
In June of 1984 INDE filed a claim against its consultants for damages
equivalent to US$100 million. The consultants countersuited INDE in August
of 1984 for defamation of character. The Supreme Court of Guatemala in
July 1986 dismissed INDE's suit because the parts did not resort first to
the arbitration procedure included in the contract I tween INrEz and the
consultant.  Subsequently, the consultants also d',,ped theit charges
against INDE.
3.9.2    INDE attempted to build up its technical capability by creating a
Project Supervision Unit to share construction supervision function with
4/ In charge of the design and construction inspection (see para. 3.9.2
for discussion of its role as construction supervision advisor).



- 12 -
the design consultant. The contract between INDE and the consultant
defined the role of the consultant as being responsible for the permanent
inspection of the work fronts, however, it did not define the interface
between the consultant and the contractor. Formally the dealing with the
contractor would be done by the INDE's Supervision Unit using the
information provided by the consultant. The consultant considered thus
itself as an advisor rather than a supervisor of the contractor. This
arrangement would have been effective if, in addition to INDE's Supervision
Unit being properly dimensioned and staffed with highly qualified
professionals, INDE's top management had been strong. It was not, and
project execution suffered from it.5   As early as October 1979, the Bank
pointed out the difficulties stemming from this arrangement to INDE's top
management and due to its recommendations the civil works contractor's
project manager for Aguacapa and INDE's Financial Manager were removed from
their posts. But INDE's top management continued ineffective. In the case
of Aguacapa, it would have been much better for INDE to assign full
responsibility of the supervision to the consultant.
3.9.3    The civil works contractor had poor management during the initial
phase of the works, but improved towards the end of the project. A
sizeable part of the construction equipment was old and the size of its
construction plant was too small to complete the work on schedule. This
deficiency was corrected during the final stages of construction. The
performance of the hydromechanical and electromechanical equipment
contractors was satisfactory, even though the former had problems in
promptly replacing defective components and the latter had problems with
equipment supplied by subcontractors. The performance of the transmission
line contractor was satisfactory.
3.9.4    The general consultants for the project were given the opportunity
to comment on the assessment given on their performance.  The following is
a transcript of their comments:
"Dam Foundation:
"During excavation we realized that the surface of competent rock was
much lower than anticipated during the studies which were based on the
field investigations. Immediately the consultant reviewed the design
and proposed to solve the problem by grout curtains apart from a
lowering of the foundation of some blocks.
"The Board of Consultants proposed another solution.
'We are of the firm opinion that,
a) our solution was sound, and
b) that at all times we were in full command of the situation.
'Tunnel Lining:
'We would like to draw your attention to the fact that the consultant
was not in charge of construction supervision.
5/ INDE considers that the Supervision Unit was adequately staffed with
qualified persounel. See Annex 5.5.



- 13 -
"We had only one man on site as adviser. During construction, we
continuously advised the Client about various issues like method of
excavation, placing temperature of concrete, grouting, etc. But very
seldom, or too late, our advice was followed. We fully agree with
your st.:ement in para. 3.9.2 that it would have been much better for
the Client to assign full responsibility of the supervision to the
Consultant.
"It is our firm opinion, that the defects resulting from the incorrect
construction procedures caused the failure of the tunnel and we have
documented this in various reports to the Client.  We have even
employed international consultants to independently look into this
problem.6
"Flooding of the Powerhouse:
"The first flooding of the powerhouse in 1979 was due to a restricted
river section causfd by dumped excavation material. Additionally, the
river correction was not carried out according to our drawings and
instructions.
"During construction, we repeatedly pointed out this fact to the
Client, however, without success.
"The cause for the second flooding in 1982 was due to two facts:
1) The river correction designed by the Consultant was not fully
carried out. The wall designed to give additional safety was not
built according to our design.
2) The creek which enters the river downstream of the powerhouse
brought a large amount of sediments and trees. This was due to a
flash flood flow as a detailed study showed, a very exceptional
hydrological situation.
"Subsequent studies show that the flood took place because they did
not follow the directitns given by the Consultant, confirming the
correct site for the powerhouse.
"Performance of the Consultant:
"The Consultant is fully convinced, and subsequent studies show that
its performance was correct and within the modern consulting
engineering norms and criterion. During the entire development of the
project, the Consultant had full control of all technical problems and
resulting consequences. Nevertheless, the ambiguous contractual
situation of being an advisor without the right to intervene directly
over the contractor resulted in that the advice and directions given
by the Consultant were not always followed as promptly and quickly as
was required and caused the problems previously stated in this
report."
6/ INDE does not agree with this opinion of the consultant. See Annex
5.5.



- 14 -
3.9.5    The performance of the consultants for financial and management
studies was satisfactory. In the case of the asset reevalu:tion study,
difficulties with completion of the report stemmed from the inconsistency
of data provided by INDE and the lack of collaboration of INDE's management
with the consultants in order to overcome the problems generated by the
faulted data. The consultants completed in a very satisfactory manner the
asset revaluation study for EEG.
3.10     Covenants
3.10.1   The key covenants for the Loan (LA) and Guarantee (GA) Agreements
dealt with financial performance and expansion planning and are summarized
in Annex 3.6
3.10.2   The most important financial covenants dealing with contribution
to investment (L.A.5.04a, G.A.3.02), rates of return (L.A.5.04b, G.A.3.03),
setting of rates for the sale of electricity from INDE to EEG (L.A.5.06,
G.A.3.05) and accounts receivable (L.A.5.07a, G.A.3.09a) hf.e not been in
general complied with (paras. 5.1 to 5.3). These covenants were
reestablished in the Chixoy Project (Loan 1605-GU), however, in general,
there was a state of no compliance throughout the life of this first Chixoy
loan. In the negotiation of the supplemental loan for Chixoy (Loan
1605-1-GU), substantial progress was achieved in setting the rate for the
bulk sales of INDE to EEG and cancelling the debts of the public agencies
to INDE.
3.10.3   Regarding generation expansion covenants (L.A.5.08, G.A.3.u8), the
Bank agreed to the purchase of two gas turbines (about 50MW) by EEG once
they were proved to be economically justified, even though these were not
in the investment plan initially agreed with the Bank. The Government's
decision of starting construction of the 440 MC Chulac Hydroelectric
Project (pars. 4.1.3) was unquestionably a default of G.A. 3.08.
3.10.4   There was no compliance with dated covenants dealing with the
completion of management and financial studies (para. 3.6) in spite of
several postponements agreed by the Bank.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
4.1      Project Achievements
4.1.1    The ihain objective of the project was to increase the generation
capacity and associated transmission facilities in order to meet the demand
increase and to save fuel by replacing thermal generation. In spite of the
commissioning delay and the unavailability of the third generating unit due
to the flooding of the power house, the project was successful in meeting
this objective.
4.1.2    A secondary objective of the project was to strengthen the
financial, planning and personnel organization and management and to carry
out studies relative to tariff revaluation of assets and a new office
building. The project was not successful in meeting this objective since
even though some restructuring of the organization was implemented
(creation of the planning and finance departments by the dates envisaged;



- 15 -
the personnel department much later in 1983) and the studies have been
completed (albeit with long delays), the functioning of the new units was
not satisfactory and none o.- the recommendations were implemented.
4.1.3    Another objective pursued by the project was a sector
reorganization, with better definition of INDE's and EEG's functions and
their rapport with the Government. In particular transfer of assets,
planning coordination and regulation were major issues calling for a prompt
settlement. This objective was not met. As a matter of fact the situation
worsened with the formation of another entity (Hidrochulac) to construct a
major hydro power project (Chulac, 440 MW), which was not included in the
expansion program agreed with the Bank.
4.1.4    The Bank attempted to address the problems cited in paras. 4.1.2
and 4.1.3 in the loans 1605-GU and supplemeutal 1605-1-GU (Chixoy
hydroproject) and in the Power Distribution Project. Construction of the
Chulac Project was interrupted in 1982 and Hidrochulac was disactivated.
4.2      Load Growth
4.2.1    Forecast and actual sales by INDE and EEG were equal in 1979,
expected year for the commissioning of Aguacapa (Annex 4.1). Sales
de-reased from 1980 to 1983 and it was only in 1985 that sales surpassed
the 1979 level. As a consequence the actual sales departed considerably
from forecast sales (e.g. 1981: -10Z; 1985: -42Z). The output of Aguacapa
was thus initially used to replace thermal generation. Due to problems
with Chixoy and the thermal plants, Aguacapa was extremely valuable in
minimizing electric energy shortages.
4.3      Rate of Return on Investment
4.3.1    The appraisal estimated the rate of return as 14.9%. including in
the cost stream the investment in Aguacapa and the distribution system
expansion required by the project. The benefits were estimated as the
forecast revenues from the sale of electricity due to the project, and fuel
savings measured by the electricity generated by the project to substitute
thermal generation. Following the same methodology but with actual data
for the period 1976-86 and forecast data for the remainder of the life of
the plant, the rate of return has been estimated at about 10% (Annex 4.2)
roughly in line with the opportunity cost of capital in Guatemalp. The
lower-than-expected rate is due to the higher project costs.7   Also, the
plant has been operating with only two units and it is expected that only
in 1990 full capacity would be available again (para. 3.4.11).
7/ Lower revenues from sales due to low levels of consumption in Guatemala
in the first years of Aguacapa's opet tion were more than offset by
substitution of costly thermal generation.



- 16 -
1  V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.1      Comparison of Actual and Forecast Data
5.1.1    Annexes 5.1 to 5.4 compare the appraisal forecast income
statement, sources and applications of funds, balance sheets and
performance indicators for INDE, EEG and the Sector (consolidation of INDE
and EEG).8   The Sector financial performance wat weak during the period
1976-80 and deteriorated further during the period 1981-1983, however, it
improved in 1984 and 1985. The weak financial performance was due to
inflation, decrease in sales as a consequence of economic recession, and
cost overruns and delays of the Aguacapa and Chixoy Projects. The
financial indicators presented in Annex 5.4 show that the contribu;ion to
investment was generally lower than covenanted in the period 1976-83, but
improved substantially for 1984 and 1985 after commissioning of the
projects under construction.9   The financing gap was covered by Government
contributions, higher than expected at appraisal, and by short-term
financing. The debt-service coverage ratio was generally lower than
covenanted, and deteriorated from 1.8 in 1976 to 1.0 in 1980 and 1.3 in
1985. The debt-equity ratio of 1985 was 28/72, better than expected at
appraisal as a result, basically, of the increase in Government
contributions. The rate of returr on historically valued assets was lower
than the appraisal target. The rates of return range from 4.42 to 13.92
and are low if taken into account that the assets were seriously
undervalued (para. 3.6.2).
5.1.2    The contribution to investment ratio, which was the main financial
covenant of the loan, was generally lower than agr:eed. However, the Bank
did not press the Government and INDE to fulfill their commitment, based on
the fact that tariff actions were practically the only option left and rate
increases had been the basic tool that the Government had used to
counteract the financial problems of the sector; Government argued that
further rate increases were politically difficult because rates were
already high, compared with other Cetitral American countries, and also
because the quality of service had declined due to delays in the
commissioring of the Aguacapa Project and operation problems (including
lack of adequate maintenance) with some of the thermal units.  The Bank
accepted these arguments and waived the requirement of the contribution to
investment covenant on various occasions.
5.1.3    For the calculation of the contribution to investment ratio,
change in non-cash working capital was added to the internally generated
funds, and since the change tended to be negative as a result of increases
of current liabilities of the sector, this produced an increase in net cash
generation, thus overestimating the sector's contribution to investment.
In future operations witn INDE, internally generated funds should not
include change in non-cash working capital.
8/ There are eleven small municipal companies which have not been included
in the consolidation, but their addition would have a negligible effect
on the aggregate figures of the Sector.
9/ The contributions to investment covenanted were: 162 ror 1977, 132 for
1978, 162 for 1979 and 18% for 1980 and thereafter.



- 17 -
5.2      INDE's Financial Performance
5.2.1    INDE's financial performance reflects the evolution discussed
above. The contribution to expansion ratio was lower than agreed, except
for years 1978, 1984 and 1985. INDE's sales in the period 1983-1985 (Annex
4.1) were approximately 40Z lower than forecast at Rppraisal due to the
slowdown in economic activity, this being the main cause for the financial
constraints. In addition, investment was much higher-than-expected due to
cost ovetrun of Aguacapa and Chixoy.
5.2.2    Average electricity rates increased by about 180Z, from 3.77 in
1976 to 10.51 cents of current Quetzales in 1985. In 1976 prices, this
represents an increase of about 3% per annum as follows: frori 1976 to 1981
rates grew by 10% per annum in real terms, while from 1982 to 1985 rates
declined by abotit 6Z pec annum; this decline was due to a reduction of
revenues resulting from the application of the fuel adjustment clause, as
fuel consumption was reduced due to the increase in Aguacapa hydro
generation.0  Even though there was an overall improvement in the level
of rates during the period, this was offset by lower sales and by higher
operating expenses than expected at appraisal.
5.2.3    Other factors affecting INDE's finances were (i) overstaffing and
(ii) the high level of accounts receivable. The number of employees
increased from 4,561 in 1976 to 6,407 in 1980, representing an annual
increase of 9Z. The number of employees for 1985 was 2321 higher than the
target established in the performance indicators agreed during the
negotiations. The level of employees for the period 1981-83 was aoout the
same as that of 1930, but increased substantially in subsequent years,
reachinig 7,248 in {985 (para. 6.2.2).
5.2.4    The level of accounts receivable was generally above the 60 days
agreed under Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement. The collection period
increased to a maximum of 149 days in 1982. Though the situation has
improved in recent years, accounts receivable are still high, representing
89 billing days in 1985. The main reason for this is the poor payment
record of the Government and municipal entities. Under the Power
Distribution Project, the Government and INDE agreed to take all necessary
actions to ensure that by January, 1989, the accounts payable by public
agencies to INDE would not exceed 60 days and that EEG would pay to INDE
its electricity bills within 45 days.
5.3      EEG Financial Performance
5.3.1    The financial performance of EEG during the period was adequate
even though its sales for the period 1976-85 were about 40% lower than
expected at appraisal, thus substantially decreasing the expected sector
revenues. However, EEG was able to maintain its operating ratio, debt
service coverage ratio and debt-equity ratio at levels somewhat comparable
to the ones expected at appraisal. Its internal cash generation allowed
EEG to fund its working capital and investment requirement without
borrowing. However, it should be noted that investment was kept low. A
10/ A minor decline in rates was also foreseen at the time of appraisal
(Annex 5.1, Attachment 1).



- 18 -
large component of the working capital was the accounts receivable, which
have been steadily increasing and represented 118 billing days in 1985,
mainly due by the capital city's water supply company, EMPAGUA. In
December 1987, EMPAGUA paid the outstanding debt as of December 1986.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.1      The Borrower and the Bank
6.1.1    The appraisal's diagnosis of the institutional problems of INDE
and the sector focussed on INDE's deficient organization, poor working
conditions and procedures and lack of first rate management as well as on
the unsuitable sector organization. Seen in retrospective, the Bank
proposed action can still be considered correct. In addition, the Bank's
supervision, although mainly concentrated i-. resolving the problems of the
Aguacapa Power Plant, always insisted on the timely hiring of consultants
for the studies having a bearing on institutional development and followed
up with Government on sector reorganization. In the case of INDE, failure
in achieving the project institutional objectives (paras. 4.1.2 and 4.1.3)
can be attributed to ineffective management, aggravated by frequent changes
in top managerial positions.
6.1.2    The failures of (i) the Planning Department in making use of the
tariff study prepared by the consultants; (ii) the Finance Department in
implementing the results of the asset revaluation study into the accounting
system; and (iii) the Personnel Department in implementing the re"alts of
several personnel-related studies, attest to the statement of in, active
management mentioned above. The Project was pursuing many objectives in
INDE arnd in the power sector, all of which were achievable during the
Project period but it failed to press firmly and consistently towards INDE
achieving them. As a result, the Bank kept on including the same
unattended objectives in the following operations, which contributed to
eroding its credibility vis-a-vis the Guatemalans. This process also
raised within the Bank some criticism to the Projects and Programs
Departments as promoters of new operations in the Guatemalan Power Sector
with many of the objectives which had not been achieved in the past.
Moreover, these objectives were sought through the same means (e.g. studies
by consultants followed by plan of action for implementation of the
consultants' recommendations) that had failed in the past.
6.1.3    Bank supervision should have detected or flagged in the early
stages the development of problems that later became main issues: (i)
defects in procurement documents (para. 3.5.2) and (ii) the inadequate
relationship between owner, contractor and consultant (para. 3.9.1). The
Bank seems to have erred on the side of excessive flexibility, given INDE
and the Goverment's failure to comply with irnportant undertakings and
serious procurement issues (para. 3.5.3).
6.2      Government
6.2.1    Government did not support institutional changes which were
necessary in INDE and in the sector. It is to be borne in mind that the
project was executed during a period of acute political instability in



- 1 -
Guatemala. Government was unable or unwilling to face the opposition,
mainly in the private sector, to the transfer of the EEG's generation
assets to INDE and transformation of EEG in a sole distribution utility
that the sector reorganization called for. In addition, there was no
resolve on the part of the Government to regulate and coordinate the
sector's main activities, notably the expansion planning and the ensuing
in-eatment decisions.
6.2.2    Even thotgh INDE is a legally autonomous entity, it never escaped
the rigid and short-sighted control of the Government's Civil Service
Office. This precluded payment of salaries compati'le with EEG, let alone
the private sector, which in turn made the implementation of a program for
upgrading INDE's staff unattainable. Reduction of staff, mainly unskilled
workers assigned to construction of Aguacapa and Chixoy was not carried out
(para. 5.2.3) because Government and INDE's management considered
politically and socially difficult to lay-off workers when the level of
unemployment was very high. Under the Power Distribution Project, INDE
agreed to prepare a five-year program of staff restructuring and reduction
with targets acceptable to the Bank. This program has not yet been
submitted by INDE.
VII. LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
7.1      Phased Objectives for Institutional Development
7.1.1    Institutional development of borrowers or sectors which present
many deficiencies should be sought through the adequate phasing of
objectives in a series of projects if a lending program can be ensured.
The phasing of objectives requires the Bank to have a clear and practical
strategy for the country and the sector. Sector objectives are very hard
to accomplish only through projects because the leverage of the Bank to
exercise remedies to enforce covenants leading to sector improvements is
weakened by the need to have major physical components of the project
completed on time. The currently available sector loans could help address
this dilemma.
7.2      Compliance with Agreements
7.2.1    The Bank should thoroughly assess Government and Borrower's
attitudes towards expected commitments with the Bank prior to loan
approval. Govei:;ment and INDE repeatedly disregarded contractual
agreements with the Bank and weak reactions of the Bank on their defaults
encouraged them further. To reduce the risk of defaults, the Bank should
seek fulfillmeLt of selective policy conditions, on which there are
questions on the Government's commitment prior to, or as conditions for.
processing the loan. Deferral of such obligations to later stages of loan
preparation jeopardizes the implementation of related provisions.
7.3      Extensive Project Preparation
7.3.1    In dealing with hydroprojects, extra caution has to be exercised
in the project preparation and in the plant design. Cost estimates should
be based on basic design preceded by thorough field investigations, notably
geological, as warranted by the design stage. In particular, any



- 20 -
hydroelectric works to be built on tuffaceous or breccia rocks should be
examined with special attention by a team of experts in this particular
field, including their in depth assessment of all design criteria for major
works in this type of material. This task should be carried out upon
completion of the feasibility study stage. Selection of consultants should
take into account their particular knowledge of the region.
7.4      Procurement Planning
7.4.1    An agreement on the bidding documsnts should be preferably
finalized at appraisal. In addition, it is highly desirable that the
document be based on a Bank's sample bidding document with adjustments to
reflect specific project conditions. Review by the Bank under time
pressure of complex bidding documenits prepared by our borrowers--as happens
for major civil works--may not detect potential problems for bid evaluation
and contract award that eventually lead to disputes among interested
parties and delay of the project.
7.5      Definition of Construction Supervision Responsibilities
7.5.1    Proposed contracts for Bank financing with contractors and
consultants, particularly when major works are involved, should be
thoroughly examined regarding safety of the works, workmanship, and formal
relations between all contractual parties involved to ensure proper
definition of accountability in all project related acts. In particular,
the responsibilities for construction supervision should be clearly
established between the owner and the consultant. It is acceptable that
the consultant playc no role in the construction supervision--its role
being limited to the final design activities and any special studies the
owner may specifically request under clear terms of reference--or that the
consultant is in charge of the inspection of the works and the owner does
the actual supervision of the contractor.  These options are only
recommended to borrowers wliich have a strong top management and a
construction supervision unit suitably dimensioned and staffed with highly
qualified professionals. Another acceptable option is that the consultant
directly supervises the contractor. This is particularly suited to
borrowers which do not have strong management and qualified construction
personnel. The selection of the consultant is crucial in this case and the
Bank should closely scrutinize the criteria for selection of consultants
and the short list of consultants invited for bidding.



* 21 -
ANNEX 1.1
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
Sources of Information for the Proiect Completion Report
World Bank Report No. 1361 lb-GU, the Project Appraisal Report
World Bank Report No. P-2069-GU, the Project President's Report
Consultants' Feasibility Report of June 1976
World Bank supervision mission reports from December 1977 to
Novembez 1981
INDE's Report on the project completion, dated February 1986 (in
Spanish)
Board of Special Consultants' Report on the damages and repairs of
the Project's pressure tunnel, August 1981 (in Spanish)
INDE's Reports related with the Project's pressure tunnel failure,
1982 to 1984 (in Spanish)
Consultants' Report on the design criteria and analysis of the
causes of the project's pressure tunnel lining failure, February
1983 (in Spanish)
'World Bank LAC Project Department's files on the Project



- 22
ANNEX 3.1
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
Actual and Forecast Timetable of Project Implementation
----------Forecast-----------   -----------Actual------------        Nuer of Months Difference
No. of                           No. of      Il-p_anntation   Completion
Star  I/  Conwoltien   Flonths   Start I/ Comletion   Months              Period         Data
Power Plant
Elctromechanical Equipmnt  OS/77         03/79       26        07/77      10/80         89          13             17
Hydromechanical Equipment   IJ3/77       OS/79       26        07/77      06/80         88           9              11
Civil Works                  08/77 V    06/79        28        11/77 2    10/81         47          22             29
Trenspioion System             03/77     0O/79        26        07/77      04/80 J       3S           7              it
Mansfioent Coneu I tant
Services/grani zation
irenotenina
Personnel                    08/77       02/78       9         02/80      09/81         19          10             43
Planning                     OS/77       06/78 41    16        09/77      06/79         21           8             t2
Aset Reealustion             07/77       02/78       7         06/80      01/82         19          12             47
Accounting and Data
Precessing                  10/77       06/78 E/   a          07/78      07/61         36          28             as
Tariff Study                 07/77       01/78       6         12/80      01/82         18           7             48
Now Offico Building Design    10/77       01/78 IV              08/79      02,80          6           3             28
Sector Roraanization          06/77 Z/   12/79        80        06/        Not done      -           -               -
2/   Start mans signing contrect or letter of intent with euppliers, contractors or consultants.
2/  This reform to the main civil work. contractor. Actual work by INE's force account on tunnel construction and dam
foundations started in the first quarter of 1976.
fl/ Completion could have been on about 04/79. if progress in power house construction could have allowed completion of the
m1l stretch between the power house and the Aguacaps substation.
^/  Compli    implementation of new planning departuent.
/   COmplete implemntation of new financial departmnt.
B/ 8uilding would be completed by 1/81.
Z/  Defintion of legal structure of the sector required to permit initiation of Covernment action to implemnt sector
reform. A Comi-eion was created by the Government in January 1976 to study the sector reorganization; it presented its
recomendations in September 1976.



- 23
Annex 3.2
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED VOLUMES OF WORKS
WORK FRONT                  CAVATION -1OM6              FILLING 1013               CONCETE - 103Y                       STOEL - t
W       ACrUAL  $DIFF.      CaT.  ATUAL  X DIFF.        E.      CU    SDIF.-                        C        DI.
Dom                    126.0  151.2  20             291.0  348.1  20            76.6  82.1       7            804S      2D73        -16
Tunnel                 85.7    110.3  29              -      -       -          43.S  88.2    96               460      4995       1010
Pen-tock/Surg. Tank    20.0    99.5   398           30.0  0.1      -90          13.6  18.7    38              710      869           21
Power House/
Substation             20.0    161.8  709           3.0    5.4    80            12.0  12.8      7             700       911          31
Total                  251.7   522.8  108           824.0  386.6  10            146.1  198.8   36             4.905    9,S44         90
I/ Includes 4,814 t for tunnel lining repaies.



ANNEX 3.3
- 24 -                      Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND FORECAST COSTS
(Current prices in US$ millions)
----Difference---
Forecast     Actual    Amount    Percent
1.  Infrastructure                  1.466       7.897      6.431     438.7
2.  Civil Works                    56.268    107.638    51.370        91.3
3.  Hydromechanical Equipment      12.765      20.064      7.299      57.2
4.  Electromechanical Equipment   17.918       25.911      7.993      44.6
5.  Transmission Line               1.386       1.329    -0.057       -4.1
6.  Engineering and Admin.          9.947      20.113    10.166      102.2
Sub-Total Power Plant and
Transmission                 99.750    182.953    83.203        83.4
7.  Consultant's Services             .250       .2501/   0.0          0.0
TOTAL                         100.000    183.203    83.203        83.2
1/ Bank's estimate; actual figures not available at INDE.



- 25 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND FORECAST COSTS
(SEGREGATION OF PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES)
In US$ millions
------------ Forecast----------    ---------Actual          -------   ----Differenc----
Local /    Foreicn      Total   Local 1/  For.inn    Total        mount    Percent
t. INFRASTRUtUR                                  1.300        1.300     .0        7.897       7.897      6.597     507.5
2. CIL WORKS
2.1 Diversion*                        1.200      2.000        3.200    1.437       .774       2.211
2.2 Dee                           8.000       6.000       14.000   10.115      5. '47     15.562
2.3 Tunnel                        9.780       9.600       19.380   14.280      7.687      21.969
2.4 Pen-tock                        .100      2.800        2.900    1.939      1.044       2.983
2.5 Powerhouae/Substation         1100       S.  0         4. 0   2.0         1.100        3.143
Sub-Total                        20.180      23.650       43.830  29.814      16.054      45.868      2.039       4.7
3. HYDROMECHANICAL EQUIPMENT:
3.1 Penatock/Surge chamber        6.800       0.800        7.600    6.016      1.136       7.152
3.2 Cates/Hoists                  0.970       0.200        1.170    1.593      0.055       1.648
3.3 Tunnel lining                 0.920       0.300        1.220   0.779       0.          1.164
Sub-Total                         8.690       1.300        9.990    8.388      1.576       9.964     -0.026      -0.3
4. ELECTROMECHANICAL EOUIPMBIT:
4.1 Turbines/Valvem,              3.300       0.200        3.500    3.149       .107       3.256
4.2 Oenerator.                    4.000       0.200        4.200    3.244       .056       3.300
4.3 Transformers                   1.000       .0          1.000    1.168       .039       1.207
4.4 Substation Apparatus          2.000       0.100        2.100    1.758       .197       1.95S
4.5 Aux. Electric Equipment       2.200       0.200        2.400   2.981        .336       3.317
4.6 Aux. Mechanical Equipment     0.          Q.140        0Q40  1.69..053                1.751
Sub-Total                         13.200      0.840       14.040   13.998      0.788      14.786      0.746       5.3
5. TRANSMISSION LINE:                0.870       0.210        1.080    0.931      0.327       1.258      0.178      16.5
6. PHfSlCAL CONTINOENCIES:           3.370       2.610        5.980   36.637     14.986      51.623    45.643      763.3
7. ElINEERIN0 ANO AOMINISTRATION:   4.500        4.740        9.240    5.577     13.658      19.235      9.995     108.2
8. BASE COST (W/PHYS. CONT.): J     50.810      34.650       85.460  95.345      55.286     150.631     65.171     76.3
9. PRICE COQNIN    T:ICES:           8.390       5.900       14.290   21.251     11.071      32.322     18.032     126.2
TOTAL COST J                     59.200      40.S'0       99.750  116.596     66.357    482.953      83.203      83.4
/   US11.00 m Q. 1.00
2 Prices as of June 1976.
/   Consultant's srvices not included (se- note 1 on page 1).



- 26 -
ANNEX 3.4
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COST OF TUNNEL REPAIRS
(In current US$ million)
1.  Civil works                                              39.62 1/
2.  Engineering and Administration                            2.82 2/
3.  Delay in testing of electromechanical equipment           1.02
TOTAL                                               43.46
1/ Includes US$8.60 million of steel plates supplied by the
hydromechanical equipment contractor.
2/ Includes US$0.38 million for board of special consultants.



- 27 -
ANNEX 3.5
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND FORECAST FINANCING PLAN
(In current US$ million)
-----FO       RECAST ------------             ---AC      TUAL/--
----Totel---                             - -Total----
Source                    Foreign    Locol    Amount      X         Foreign    Locol    Amount      X
lBRD                        66.0       -       55.0    49.6           65.0       -        55.0   28.3
CA8EI                        4.5       4.8      8.8       7.9           4.0      -         4.8     2.5
FIV                          8.0      22.0    80.0       27.0          80.0      -        80.0   15.4
INDE/GOVERNUENT                0      17.4     17.4    15.6            88.1    66.4      104.6   58.8
TOTALs
AMOUNT:                 67.5      48.7   111.2   100.0            127.9    66.4      194.8  100.0
1:                      60.7      89.8   100.0       -             65.8    84.2    100.0       -
1/ Expensee related with consultant's serviece (Part C, para. 2.4.1) originally forsen af uS10.260
million src not Included; actual amount (totally funded by INDE's own resources) was not made
available by INDE.



- 28 -
ANNEX 3.6
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(In current US$ million)
DATES                                FORECAST                          ACTUAL
Loan Signing                                                           June 1977
Effectiveness                        June 1977                         March 1978
Closing date                         December 1979                     October 1981
Disburnsment During
Semester            -----     ----Cummulative Disbursemnt----------
Fiscal Year/Semoster     Forecast    Actual         Forecast      Actual   Actual as X of Forecast
FY77
=Lne 80, 1977                9.0                      9.0                                0
FY78
D-cember 81, 1977         14.4                     23.4                                0
June 80, 1978             10.0       9.5           33.4          9.6                  28
FY79
Dce-mber 31, 1978          8.2       2.1           41.8          11.6                 28
June 80, 1979              8.0      14.8           49.6         26.4                  63
FY80
December 31, 1979          6.4       10.7          55.0          37.1                 87
June 30, 1980                       14.0                        61.1                  93
FY81
December 31, 1980                    0.7                        51.8                  94
June 80, 1981                        2.6                        64.3                  99
FY82
=ecemiber 81, 1981                    0.7                        55.0                 100



- 29 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
Key Loan and Guarantee ARreement Covenants
(i)   Sector rate of return will not be less than 9Z commencing in
the year subsequent to project completion (L.A. 5.04.b, G.A.
3.03);
(ii)   Contribution of sector internal cash generation to capital
expenditures will not be less than 162 in 1977; 132 in 1978;
162 in 1979 and 18Z in 1980 and onwards until project
completion (L.A. 5.04.a, G.A. 3.02)
(iii)   INDE's accounts receivable from public agencies shall not
exceed two months of billVng (L.A. 5.07.a., G.A, 3.09.a)
(iv)   INDE's debt service ratio will not be less than 1.5 (L.A.
5.09);
(vI   Government will make contributions to INDE's in amounts not
less than (in US$ million): US$17 in 1977; $13 in 1978, and $5
in 1979 (G.A. 2.02);
(vi)   Government will make contributions to INDE'S equity of not
less than (in US$ million): $7 in 1977, $11 in 1978, and $8 in
1979 (G.A. 3.08.c)
(vii)   The rates for the sale of electricity from INDE to EEG will be
set at such level as shall be required to transfer to INDE all
funds available to EEG in excess of EEG's requirements for
operations, repayment of debt, net working capital and capital
expenditures (L.A. 5.06, G.A. 3.05);
(viii)   Any reduction in rates for the sale of electricity by the
power sector will only be made with the agreement of the Bank
(G.A. 3.11);
(ix)   Government will ensure that rates for the sale of electricity
will be adjusted to cover fuel cost variations (G.A. 3.06);
(x)   INDE should complete a study reviewing the value of the fixed
assets of INDE and EEG not later than five months from the
effective date (L.A. 3.03)
(xi)   Government or INDE will carry out a study on tariff levels and
structure by January 30, 1978 (G.A. 3.07);
(xii)   No major work, construction or asset acquisition not included
in the agreed investment program for INDE or in excess of
specified amounts for EEG would be undertaken, unless the Bank



- 30 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 2
has been furnished with satisfactory evidence that: (a) such
work, construction or acquisition is economically justified;
and (b) INDE has available adequate financial resources for
their carrying out (L.A. 5.08, G.A. 3.08)
(xiii)   Not later than June 30, 1978, INDE should: (a) reorganize its
planning and financial staff into, respectively, a planning
department and a finance department; (b) put into effect a
program for achieving adequate financial planning and
improvements of accounting practices; (c) prepare the plans
for the construction of the headquarters building, including
preliminary contractual arrangements for land acquisition and
preliminary design and specifications (L.A. 4.01.b)



- 31 -
ANNEX 4.1.
GUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-GU)
COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL SALES TO FINAL CONSUMERS - GWh
Appraisal Report             Actual                   Difference
EEG    INDE   Total    EEG       INDE    Total      Actual  - Appraisal
GVh        I Appr.
1976       723    142      865      768      137      905          40           5
1977       859    149    1008       872      166    1038           30           3
1978       932    190    1122       949      200    1149           27           2
1979      1011    228    1239    1002        237    1239            0           0
1980      1097    270    1367    1001        235    1236         -131         -10
1981      1191    311    1502       984      245    1229         -273         -18
1982      1292    355    1647       934      205    1139         -308         -31
1983      1402    397    1799       942      207    1149         -650         -36
1984      1521    443    1964       973      215    1188         -776         -39
1985      1650    492    2142    1005        240    1245         -897         -42



- 32 -
ANNEX 4.2
WUATEMALA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
ACWACAPA POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1426-CU)
Return on Invoste_nt
(million of US1 of old-1978)
Thermal    Saving
Sales due           Substitu-  In Fuel    Net
Plant  ----Capital Investment----- OU  Total to Project Reovnues tion          Expenses Benefits
Yeoro    Life   Aguacape   Other Subtotal Costs   Cost   OWh          Million    CWh    Million  Million
a/
1976             16.7      0.0    16.7    6.0  16.7           a        0.o                       -16.7
1977              2.1      e.g      2.1    0.0   2.1          0        0.6                        -2.1
1978             26.9      0.6    26.9    0.0  26.9           a        0.0                       -26.9
1979             8S.6      0.0    85.6    0.0  85.6           0        0.0                       -85.6
1980             81.0      0.0    81.6    6.6  81.6           6        6.0                       -81.0
1981       1    26.8       0.0    26.8    6.2  27.0           6        6.6         85      2.9   -24.1
1982       2      8.4               8.4    o.6   4.0         28        2.8        185    11.8       9.6
1988       8                        0.0    0.6   0.6         40        8.0        189    16.5    17.9
1964       4                                6.6   6.6        47        8.4        236    16.8    19.1
1985       6                               6.6   6.6         58        8.8        266    19.2    21.9
1986       6                               6.6   6.6        106        6.6        194     11.8    17.7
1987       7                                6.6   6.6       266       15.8                        15.2
1988       8                                6.6   6.6       272       16.8                        16.2
1989       9                               6.6   6.6        886       20.7                        20.1
1990      10                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1961      11                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1992      12                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1993      18                                6.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
1994      14                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1995      15                               6.6   9.6        343       21.2                        20.6
1996      16e                               0.6   0.6        48       21.2                        20.6
1997      17                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1998      18                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
1999      19                               6.6   6.6        843       21.2                        20.6
2666      20                                0.6   0.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2001      21                                6.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2002      22                               6.6   0.6        848       21.2                        20.6
2003      28                                6.6   6.6        48       21.2                        20.6
2064      24                                6.6   6.6       843       21.2                        20.6
2005      26                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
2666      26                               9.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
2007      27                               6.6   6.6        848       21.2                        20.6
2008      28                                6.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2009      29                                6.6   6.6       843       21.2                        20.6
2010      86                               6.6   9.6        848       21.2                        20.6
2011      81                                6.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2012      82                               6.6   6.6        843       21.2                        20.6
2018      38                               6.6   6.6        348       21.2                        20.6
2014      84                                6.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2016      86                                6.6   6.6       843       21.2                        20.6
201        U                                0.6   0.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2017      87                                0.6   6.6       848       21.2                        20.6
2018      88                                6.6   0.6       843       21.2                        20.6
2019      89                               0.6   o.6        843       21.2                        20.8
2020      40                                0.6   6.6       848       21.2
Rate of Roturn                                                                                     6.11



U-   I a      LSf U2    -   Wit.    &i "        -  ilo      .1a            a's a- iz   ftI       " If    sotVS   Ii   SIt       9UU    S_t I?-          9 utl    W-  eV t    1101t   11    "         11 01    OIU-019    110                                                    .
ft U   tis    U    2I1      123o    U-   a 0%   to1 a        2-  a 2*     WCt 01 O-  go I           it    1-  St'I    to 11   IL-  101         Oi      412-      1    11      U-  sill    tlt        V6-  ug I    100g                              hi1. i4 of
`- "12.0           "     "  0001    0  11   0        10       09    St-  iga  tn 12           -   an9    a1Oa   i`-  0001t   tool   co-  121a    1201    00-  10                Ion e    14-  a1a21     lii      '00-  a0   ItO.                     i00       i0tI00h1P- Vii
vs   at a2 f  t      I ut-6'1 6 61,   1-   ft a2 1g    41  1212    01   t U                A-           612 S4     t   110     0 1 ft   12-  ftl'I    12t 19 2-  ?A0         11VT   10-  ft'        9It      b   tlC 01a II                    Vo0,0         11'-    ftl      sbpo
Cgf-  ot n    Oslo-   i-       01    09 I-    pi-  a-u    ST-ti% -        c Q-n    VI I-         I        P 1 1-10               1 co-l-001    IP u I0-  f- lIa O--  so O-   go-  Iva0   St O-1  1115  h09 0 
U 121    as..    .    as 021     aI      Ii.-   001    Ca0  ft   0011    *iC             at I        i  T?           o. a01  00ST001    04   10    et0 104  Vc2   OI I    4             e 019      ' 001  a1 10        ftP a000
ft s      310           oi  t  S     0&       e III  W      co1 *1    12  011 140   101  00gm11  W   101 t I Ot    1    10 02    'S T      t9 IS Ut    OII      ft   UOStt 00    00   110P    09g    t-   ut 9121                                 0011  1l010W               -4O
411 UV         s Y           ot 120  121      to 1,1VI   St 110     IS 201   Si0  lii    Lo    110       g    01o001   1        U 0l     00   401       MT    U    10          o  12   a    elo      1109    11   te0l Ol                                  il.Ofu.hIVbbLa.
as t     so I            or ft   Ii  Oil    Im  001         ill-    0      SS-I    Uto    01   III         LO0    i t    CS1    011       i    so P    120       to v~t        . 1-   001as n-  a   Il         TS  nC.    no T                             ....
S. -  12     ITI       40             o S.-   C. a          000      t *           aoc  n  t-   ats       100TS    0 I  000 s      I0   IO    000      U11                    10 a     Vt   000      t 10     10-   100     ItO                            1100i
I-   1012ot  U 011  01-  lif go         111   0    It ft   601       01-   ? to     91 0 1to     it a's    Oto   51  I01        9 ft     et1 11 IL 1   it 51   Vt-  11 it           ft Ot     St uk    1St   I    P1 SC    012ol                                     1l 10
00   1a01    It I      S-0   00      10  1      -0 0    PAt no       ab    no      11"0    C,   ItO       001     0b-  110      040   0GO   LO0    0 0 ?9 0                   gtoS o    1-  so50    4 0       %- 0 us       ot 0                                           itt?
t  to 1211     120     00   T s1         WIn  o  11  tt201    121 ob 11t   001o   to 0      io  Ut  tot a;            t    ooVIX11            VS9  Uoa 120      00    12      121 a    01-  Stet0   itsSI ao   li CaU0
00   g  at   a2        f t   129     UP 9 c~:G    Vt 1         e6t10      Lo 121    is     ft   IC t     to1      1 1   00 a     0 1    12   100 StOlt    Is0-             9   Oti     Ott  to 01    I 00     C    12       III                                           =
to ,    I0    blO     012  in.=    0110       t if s4 Vt   co        00,  211 C3     t    on0-  P1       to 001   .11      2 so  000t    I S    021    OUI   I    001         1C,      1 41 11 ta        l         000?     01P                                        lO -O
i-   10       0001     12" V-   20L"    00111   10-  L 010   9111   P1-    100      002   TV1   0010    0012?   91-  000        I 0gm9   1t-  L0e.1     0112    01-  012 CM   VoUt   0-  C0120         ui  1120on111         `10
(U-) 0010 M,-q
-On.  -s-no             -loin                       *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -   - ---a---o.. ...              ---      ------   -- -                             ---n
---- - ---- - ----    0.110
(1000) wTw)tavWO100001 a1100 "0 0r.000



A428836 PW   U42W7  (LA  1411-05
444..  W4 P...4 1o.  30 - 80 AP1221.000  P.34 64.2D . (1479-346)
(.IOIh..O 04.744  ..WI
Mt I  333044.0300.4.  13.                          .92     172          IS. 12.2    1.61  49    14.164    4.42   41    42.41    10.I4  -84   24.1?    4.0   -a    87.40      8.6  M7    W8.4   u9.*        -      4.7      69.32  -44   34.66    18."   .76   78.78   86.3O  -
Plo.- l.,.3.23                       5~~~~~~~~~~~~.70    2.44   -9    4.78    8.84  -10  8.6  4.4  -4m    ali2    0.42  -80      W.0.    8.08  -4    12.11    6."40   8      17.14    9.74   .40   22.2    10.29   40    22.:    10.8  4           1142.10    U.32  -41
844.0 o..-..44 44.eu..               ~~~~~ ~~~0.01    0.22    Is   0.22    0.42   Is    1.C42    0.11  41t    3.47    0.81  -71    1.87    0.41   42   1.07    I.42m  so    1.07    1.46       6      3.04      8.la  1ot    0.8    4 8.8    "7    1.84      4.4  36
2-4...30400  004 g0o434                    4.611    0.42   22      2.8    S.76  -71   01.72    4.42  -88        WA.   14.1 IS -1   48.84   12.07  .74   810.8    17.8   47    78.88    84.46    .6    U.3m   Go.34                00.3     M.3la  -3    490.1    40.9  -4
L-  No4  =     1..03.                             1100.01    1.87  4-    J.0M    1.12  -48    A."        1.8   42    T."4    1.70  -78   10.41    1.38  44    32.14    1.82  42    14. 12            3      3     4.2     1.8 -8 33                88 -         14        .2 4
A-6.43214                                               3.42 242 2  84      8.108   4    8.22    8'.684    4    7.82    2.3   -42   14.44       8.74   -a2   42.4    11.91   -7    27.42    32.68    46    87.6       21.8  -3      70        6.8 12   006.3       66
S642    8.64   -7    8040       4.8  -21    7.40       .8, 46-1    10.02    7.41  4as    WA.    6.2  -46    U.42          4.42  -4a   46.2la   22.68   -41   82.64   83.11  -48    so..    87.0  .41   46.78   IN.3 14 -
12-0 0i34d.                                       0.22    0.42           0.22    0.22          0.22    0.42           0.W2    0.42           .0.2     8.22          0.22    0.80           0.22    2.30            8.22    0.42           0 22    0.42           0.42    0.42
Pi.4  0.DM  00I4183                                "0 2    0.22          02       .2            80       .2            .00D                    .2     0.2           02       02             .2     0 0.0 .22    .0.42' 0.2                         0.42          0.8     02
4434 l.4.,..l ..44 g...r.43..   2~~S22   -4.78  -404   84.081  -21.42  -2114   It 12   92.04   3    14.37    14.22   30   04.4    44.   248   18.421   -.420 -1to   42.01    6.42         4      34 440 -a       01 o~   4808    84.68   22   42.8    3.04   .14
ft-i".                               SO~~~~2.06    14.04   48    68.74   27.681  -72   08.84    46.7   -46   So.3"   Ga.78   41   77.22   33.42  437   27.68    08.    41    8."   04-.68   no         0.42   384            0.22    14.2          44.2    68.8 O? i
0.,-4                                             8a       0.22  -022    0.42     0.4  -22      04      0.3*  M4    .0.2       0.3o          0.22    0.76           2.4      0.00.0.2               .802                     .202                 0 0.0.22               0.22
b..~~~.4 00.4.3k.41...               3.42~~~~m,f    42.S    10    8.62   64.22  627   12.8    224  2       7.2   08.81   an20       11.8 34.082  46    14.48  212.06  3468  -133.27   47.81  1         2.4   122, .72-      -88      40.6-        -0.7      3.3  -867
0.o,.../(i..,....1   3 ..44         ~~~~~~-8.81  .8  .4681  -3.10   -.68 00    4.8          3. 12  -42    0.42    -l 12          -2.2    2.082 -11    0. 08    4.72a -881    4.08   4O.3;       I    -04W    46.34   471   .0. so    2.78.22       4.2   -10 .48  8so
-   -   -      -               -      -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- ...        ....          -------                                                                  -
b-84i,.g 3048                      22~~~~~~~~~~S.43       IA.4.86                                       4.64                  4.26                    .4          8.8.4                                                    4.22                   4.80
484... o~..4                                    48                   87 08                  at2222                                        0.22                   2.22                                                                    co102202             0.42
O.3.oo p0.1047.             14.43                  47.24                  81.22                  08.84                 08.08                  88.84                  30.4~~2                  0.22                   0.22                  0.22a
P   -4.. a04                                8                     12.4                  28. 1                  42.25                  14.42                  11.228102                                                              04                    61
7.4. I    eo4.opo1a 8.032241  -s0   112202   59.27  -22  304 04   106.81    4   103.07   NM4.is   30   844                                      M8.22  134   47.42  421.62   M1   213 3         : 30.6    749    0.8   1.40  284        8    01.0  2148   84.52   62            
80.44.0443.. o..r8...4             ~~~~~~~2.10    3.80  -12    218g    2.23      2 41    2.40   22    0.8       4 03    so    3.2      14      8      10      10      1     8.4      469              .8     46      7     4.4      80      4     46        6              7
.... .... .  -- ---  ....  ... ..  . .... ---- -  -- ---  ---     ----                                                      -  --... .------
7.4.3 40040043.00.p*04,0.C..    887  ~~~as-2287   -44   33-401   a'.  -44  306.0'7  13.481    6  300.84   La.761  42    87.2  122.4   M1   22.73  228.6   287?  22.22   187849   M2              7.47   68.22   116       14    47.42122?&  44.21  10123              I
84.3.                                             2.14    4.2    3    2 54    3 72       " 40    .22    4.4 14        03        .450.34                                      8834                   4.01                    8.24                   O0 'O7                              4a
2.4.0.04 4..do  ....3..041..         ~~~~~~2.4 0.7 4        86       02     43    10       8.8 58        1.2       .2   3       08.76   0  2 I  -32   3M.1 3a2.07   -0    7.022          26        12.0                              08.2             22    3742 12
70. 310034                                   703    48.3   -8 823           4 -4   -46428 02.7              3   U2.2      T5.1    01   122.3  22642   104    .08.4   427.          3  2204   SM.       M6      7.47  337   32        81    0302            II3 061   322



CPO00    a'0 1t300   0am   1010    60           ml0 Ti's   6I0    001   Al It    6600    00t  ofOO    0010    600  0100    060             600   000 0    10-0 090   6000       006     010  0100     00      00    000    LoO        MO                  11100101     P-60   00-0
0t0C'0    TS'L    WM   WM        WI00           WL 00  a0tie00I00  000            Oa 0  060 "'        to0     0 ML   T 900    00.o    tvo,9 0M0a00Olt V60 '6Ts   10'o    so   0009    0I                 to   000ll   00li   VWSIlIOI06~
......100            ------  00       OO    00       00     00 ....0...0...0...  .....  00 ...00...00           010     90        0 ....L...O..t-   -----    --0 ----  ...00  -0 ---60      .....         ---00 -0  060--  ------061
to 01    0000   0       00 'I    I 106   O-  06L 00   To       00    a'61     SOL      00-  et0     00'l 00   o   9p.  101  00     91-T. 000      6601    00      0a0 00to 000                00       T,   000      000     I0            0006000             06000
10   00W    00000   10   IL  00000   10   06910~~~~~O  0000   000040 I" 0St0   000  a00 l    10co   A0S090    W000    PC,  0660    00            00   091    00000   000 t     0L.   0a000   10   000       100      000                        W60.14 
LO   00 10   0610   0    60 10   00006C    61 00   010    t is0  00    00.e 00 0  0 0-1  0 00            0 90          00     P-00          60        0    0        0             60     00       0     00      10      0006160.0
U    090    06PO   0 901          000 S    000 100                     1600.0060 10 901    10000o    s        00-   000    00000    0    600 0010   tip-  W060    00 00   00    00              0000    t0-  so00    60 a      00A                           1000060J.00101%_-
IC    01600   0060l  000  00        0100    o10   000    00000Arm   0    0001"  St'0    000  0010    00010   00 a 90060           us1  00,   000OLT  006act  0    00Wil   06001   00-  00Pt    00001l  0e   0900g  010    1 000                            19o1_~l
90.  0060    3100   00-  0000    6000-----    S------ OL   ~    600      000 ----00 ..6 .6- .00..6.    -0----  ......00----0 --00                                               -----                                  ------0    6  00 060400
to 00  90          0      00010          0       90000        00       000 00         00      60090          0       06001         00      3     wOm   soM o 9000060           010    OW       . 000    "90I  000  0610'   609    0100                        *00 10000  ..
0~~*T  010  0006    0000    010  0000    9600    001  1000~~~~SO'  001    006 lo    6000    0 So  000 M 00m   000'    060  0090    60  0091  100 0      01 00         10      00 00           0       1    00      00      000062,.0006
O  000  0000    000  0000    00  010  100-   0600   006   060  0000    000  000-   000  000100.   000  06   000-   000- 00   0000    000  00   000-   LO-   0    aP-    9000    000   00;qI..goo    69 0600*00  000
6010   0 01   00   0010  600    00  0000 1000  000    900 000  010   100 000  000   100  00  000   000  00  000  000  00  000 00     00     00     060      000                         1W       0000
10    OWO900    U 00     tO    0    0000   0009 00           0000   000   0    0096 0000                 0000 0000    0-   090   010    90 00Se                006    0-  160    06          0-  060O=000 000                                  9610  06.00.
10   10000   00011  oo 0000   010  960  00960   0000    600   00000   10000  90   00000   00000   00   00000   90100   0-   00010   00W    00   00000   00090   000- -009-0001 0-----0..06900...06 .   ......  .....
1010  -----0000----   9010  -o060--    1010  ...0000-  0010    --1001  0010  ---0000-    1016   --06......  ------6------  ------------    ----0061-----                                --        ----0 ------
LI)    06 441 W             m    tLT60 W08    I                          'M.060               -000,2 ST 6  *:gsVCZo.                 16      m      '              a    lb 00-0090-060   Om60  -o016I9091                             al
an   tv.0    61 .et   ag  to.a   et.it   061  a  to  ml  AS    42,      abi  to       ot       M   2516t              M ~~~Olt.ao. *6    gal a.ooi 0.)o269                              2                        -   -P   --
on                   .:11   :      "W O-      -     1.   60  _                                                   ",O.                                          0.                                         -Iql%-l g-   Z       -         ;dd"~~~~l00006) 66~.o  0000  0103 001106100006
"g   N:v    :.O-   Kg  LO-,,  " O- 0,  se.  9,z   as,   a O-    099       I-   a-c-   Cb   vo-t(4q  CLI 0000)              itW aW O-    t              A-6100- wo
O"  "it   u  ot   me                            ct 9    2"   Wes   OZ't    gm   49,09 ~~~~~~~~~~~~(26) M    W 0             WI400010U 00Li1007000S001106



a-  as'      no't   St   T,0 el    9t01   0    9001      0 0 a       010 t'  09      0 -   go     0(it    0 -  19    09Sp0    001- 4000-   IL0    5-C  ap090       1      C_  9 I    tall   0-   000        lb  000                                         ".1
%.     090    00 0           00    00            01 0                  09I1   S     000     lo1    00o0      *,z 009 0    a0   0gg    0 I     090    100  011    10         ot910 01 00  00    tO-  a0    0 0                                 0      0
00  00       00      0~~          ~~~ ~~~~0 T0  00     0         0           0        0           0         0          00      0              0     0 0                  00                 00001       0 90.0p V         0-t
001    0001
0.  CIN01 0    mOo0  aW oo  IL   ITO    104    a    099               0            IT    099    00  16a00   I. o          01- 0    01000    1.9  02T0    In000    OP  1110091   00 0    1-  5 ~       .00
*    sot   inolea   00      ' 0101   0   et   U     ato        09    WIfl  0 A0  10   11901  000    00   at            s I    09- xvot    t0       a gr    soV   o,o    0-   009 0090a    000g- wo    S.0                               -*1"0000           ttO,
0-00 00    3-    O         00    9 "   00.111 U   0    01-  010    00             00      No    II   0000    tO         . a01   I0  0 1-   00    000    0-2     000    91.0-0.  01   0941   lOl00Op
la    00   0.           0 0    0I11 0                              0               0    00 00           1     0     00      090 00M90    SO    01 00                  a1t0T          09     1      00    so 00
001   a's    00 WC o    0016  a00    01   001 M          0      01    01       0 a ' a    tc to og        001  0001  0g 9    0i    ' 000      9    00v  010         2 09  0    eV     a9 I          01-go   00"m0-0
nt00  0       at    1      00       0 0 1        TW      SC0  00      90          to a14    a s'  O    01100    100 '    00    0      00'   01      T09    090,   TO   090    090    00   tlo *    900                          -L-  (tt009-toI
el'1     s 1  10   0        000    00"    "'a    10 0    010   0       0 .00               t        1 t          O      U      0       0      0009         0        0 00        90      0     00     U
a-   006    g, 000     - 000   00  00     V    10         0 I   01.   1.10   toa   0      "lo0    00 0o    1      to 0    0g0   0000 100    09021   00-  010    004   M-  00 A         w 00    0       *S   0, 0                            Outtoo    0000.
0 0.101  09410         000       01    0 001 0               0      00      0 0        0ot0001W  00g 00a  0010                    do. 00    010  SO    0T  10  090 I    - 09        00      0     01       000  t
40- 0  00  - 0  000    90   00       01     911  900   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~041 "     Lo0 00   10  00   00 00     0     0      0       9    0                0-   00      a1      9    000o    00D' 000   1.
*p   0000    0001   St             we 00    at  0'00    0'0   M9   OUt   Ws0  M0  lb 001  910                  of 0001   009    00  04'    0'0    0    we'        1000.  0-  0so       010   00 4 I00    011                                        t
00   0100   009    0    001    000~V   00   0001:   000I   001    019   400:   WI.  lo",                01      0 00   0009    : 101   091   09           09      0     Ut     00      0     00       0(000100
O   t0009   00  0   10099   0,  0   10909   00  0   1000   00    0    0009~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~0 04    02  Tell00   00u   a0    to0    00    0  009 to as0 -0   0 000 r 0  at    0000 to aI0I,
Sot! 1400t -0000               els          0004       '    an              ' *.0.0  -0a000            M* W0         WC     0 0A tel     go0      00A 01          o    o     DO     al            v       o0.O
wam  or401:a lelm    M    W    111"18,11    Io   4'so    W  a  M      69   o ITT   'U  a   gu   or"         0.0-to)  W'"0 91 a'" 94       0009               i    T'
4m   0  all    m- 0  "'S   Of   W'9                                                             t                                                             91      IA 0~~~~~~~~10-0909140000OWUt
4,.m  uM   of   allm   n M  6 M                                               W ti        'U. ~~~~~~~~~~00)  000 1. 0 0II0oU 910500



tom  Wo    a VI   tv-  WI             $'cc    61-   co's    cola%    t        ac'O    Lole      w    MID    1511    99   IZIS         Ws       u     0616    u's   ft   le'L    02't    m           L1116    0619    6-   li'g    L1,19                                -Is-1160v IVIml
oplo    OD'O           OD a    00 0            ml*    OD'*              0'0    0010             oo,G    00 0           Wo       0010           OD'O    90'0            00,0    OD'o           00'0    OD,*            0010    OD'O                                              %-"-I
We    go-tt            31"t     9 9T           VI't    911,01           N'b    4z 6             C316    %OIL           z 9      T4'Q           (616    We              se't    09'V           to'6    Ob's            Al't    it' a
------        ------   .--.                    ------                                                            --  ---- -                   ------
cat- OD.:                                                     Wo    fo-  :-0    ov:    001  00-0    Sro              001- OD-0      wo       Cox- OD-0    La::    001- 00:0    U-0    oot- OD-0
0-  ol        :o   Ovo,  0010-11    :.O.,   col- t:             ot   o         .1                 -             4              0        9              0                             't               4    62        001  00,       iz-                                P_W_ 
LL       bi-  ao's    et'       to   0,        as'      III   06,               to                     Us  to         19,      1-   '.1 .1    at's                                _a-d
wouivaruo
......                                          O.  Z 7                           7  .  77  '. 7  .  L7.                                                             __B IWI
w   O,    7-  'i-                                                                              O.
as       ro.    m        le-g-   ".0-   ei-  ag:o-   920-   v,   401-   bi -0-   int- to-O               v-0-   m      wt-   19'0--   oca  01,9    sov          n    u's-   903-                              4-    I
a       0                    00
0'0    Ol'O            oe",    00 0            0.0      W..                      oo,o           00 0     00             do,:    00,                     W.:            OD'O    OW:             OD,     00,            W.
OD:,          00,                     00       00                       00:9           00.0    00              00'                                            We    00 0              OD'*    ODIO                                                                       V%_M
as .                                             .0
.     OD             co's    00,0           colt    00'                       00             to 0    *O a            OD'O    OD'O            iw-      *0'
cc 0                                                                    09 a                                                                   *O'Tt   0010            O'       OD             W,v    oulo    0    *RIB    as'
Vo-   tt'L    algi   W       cvlv    "'II   9-        Olt    14116      W    "'O       W 0    go   0,6    9,4           Sus- 0, t-   wo    a-  u's    TO't   101s_  P619    99's    of   fre                  wa
t-   W                       MI                                      49-0   OK- Co-O                 tu,  9'9,              tig   wt B.   W'o-   cc   99,1-   ::O-   owt-                          W     a-*-   60-1-               ot-   OOV
IVI Is    :.O                     :0    In   st-a    tg-o        m     "-I        0     m                       ac   0410      Wo
ul      I              on  B.                            o,   0"Q 1, .0  W                            owo' .  00 0           go.,    oo'O            W'O    OD'O    OR   40.9    0010    V9,   9010    6010
='v    OD'O            Tt' 4    OD,*           1011    00,0                      0010          Ill's    Colo    rtti .16        I.,      uz   a's
.9                    :3       00 0           go 4    oo,o
.1                   00'0     "m  69115   60,0    ON   96, t    09,0         us   ST,%    to,*    gm   "'O    er*            tw-  solo    ml*                                              Om
0.   Owl'           Z' :    1000-00         "'t   OOOD                        00'                              096                    at  Vale    up' T    0                 op't    0    IW't    9t T    0    00's    OD a
W                            trot   U  a       bg   *I                 ap    a."    4.6    eV   ct             6610    p              "'O    19-  2119    49't    *I-  99's    li't    a            $I'#    itle    4-   owlt        W9                             q-   I--%-I -.0
-        ------        ------                                          ......                 ----   ----             -  ---  ------
u     tolo    "'O    0,   v'.                  W                                                                                         0              0              Ga.           it.,     0        0     al'O    0      ti 0     silo
Va.                                                           ot                                                                                                                 OVS,." qs   -m
ct'.                  9-6:      tol  99'       w        til  as..    %N         do
u's        at                                                                                                                                                                                                                  91 I                                         -d.4 ;_.j
a                            19'0    14                                                                                                                       Iss
91:0                   11,19                                                                                                                                  Is's    219       ge   volga
a  S."    we   2  f."    we   5  I."    we   I   I."    we   4  I."    Ws                                                    '-"-v  WI   s  I Oftw   Ws   sI -AV  wg   s  1.4"   we   s  lo'"   vn
.10
mg-                                                                                                                                       _4161-
I'M
-A
(gobs-ual) -4ftv w-j p -111- 11-40 p- -.4 %.-.A 0- I-Ow
GM-9pt wav L13ralm gm VAMM
(omV vmmvm ao wtaurm vnwe au vcmm



484 WA mm IPamA  "a VAIU.ACm
A"-'I ...   ..m.b M6o-  wIttat sk9.,,o  C1976-l)p
W16lle.-  Fn          oSIe
-1976--  -287----   Si-    -1977-   91.6                -48--I.                       99       I.   -12,--   I. --Ni-i-c                           -Zti----   1.   - sen----   44e    -1U610--    C-6                   --     w . 
4.864     sm    A.46.6    a      8K    MAlI t           le    Af.8C    I      so9   how6      S      WA3   A..       IS     WA    A49.6     1     WA    4f.1d      I     SA    MAlI-      I     so    4A"W    1        IN    46I       8
4mm"
W Ii, olf 9C6 . ...lo                    44.6191   46.06   47.K    -x  S11.N1   49W8   -4    86.         1.9    1*   61.6?    111.41111 U      .48    74 44    9   78.16   76.18    8   0.0    41.K11    1    W."    NOt7  40  2MA.N   294    -as    .AI   N8.M   -
A-1.49.  429-*l                    28.19   14.64    14.1111  -6   23.76    14.1    2   67.26       8.44    7   1U.0    01 *4   18    W" 4    2944   2    29 U9   29.09    N    N.MN   219.4            9   27.n    87.0      6W    OD 14   Al N          8. 4      7.2911     "  44
I.                                  0.44    O.M       .49   U      0.M11    7.8   UN        .       .1 17        06       2.K 8         10       2.6  Si7    1.1        2.8    U     1W        1.6   1      1.46    ".87    4       .         M    76     81        .9    6
46911.64  9          N.M    84.1      N.M    -1    UN    42.97    1        MIS    44.6    18   43.67      44.67    13      3.6   06 76     0   6471 41N04    46.7784.Si               -12    70.12 NM8seN    70811.K -16    9186446.4   4
0.44 Cd .K1e144f                          :.U     4.7    5.87    M       4.92    2.67   -W      4.11     5.6   -19      8.2    8.74  -N       S."9    4.76  -21    C.8       5.68   4N     ON4      7.29     8    7.69     4.6   -K      SN0       7.4  -U      9.0      O.K   -
M,9. neI.441..               9.49    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.4    10.4    10 6.6  2.   ,   6.17    1.S                    to.9 1.  2    1.?      22      2 16.2         2941  18    11.18      6. SU  114   12.1       .IS   147    1WS   K.04  IN    13St41    1in
..  .m   I.. 29966 I.1166     ~~~~~~~~-0.42  .  -0.4   -117   -OK      43 -9          44     -.       1     -9       0N -6 -.6             -2.29   79      .8    -2.64   46   -6.49    -a84      4     -1.69t  -86      N     -.1    -.7U    a    4.86    4.681    1
=    14.16. Cd ...146                     2.49    2.416    2.72     0    N.       8.N    6      8.I'.            m       .      4.84          B .7"    7.92  III    4'.29    9.67   La      4.N      .2     U      1.7     6770    6.95    743    N             6.74    67 
09.   621 964804                               .9      02            02       00D02                  0.29019                029           029      0 0.0. 0.0.6  0.0.29)029.O. 0.29                                                           1.2           0.2      5.6D.
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0V41                            -                               -_          -;                                                                                                     K   ;
7.ft9. -ltt7e                                          ISM4.9 143 1.  14    12.2 ~1.7  N     44 8.2M               1 4.4    2.44U         1891     01W           7 90    2.6    76   29.2    40 49    41                        Of2 6N N N4    2.       . Nm         K4       2        
6.f47. .64 .8. .9.'l                       0.1     0.1    0."8  SID       0.6    0.67   75       0.1    0.29   229      0.1    0.29  SM        0 2    044  8NO       0.1    04    MN        O.1    0.68   429      0.2    0.62?S72        0.1    2.1I 2910       0.1    4.14 46
cUi,ft                                   U4.N    14.N     UN.      0    U.N9   14.69    01  14.690    U.K        0    U.N"   1465       0   64.29    2429    0   6449    24.66    I    44 1         429It   0    UIt      U..      0I  It 4.68   U        0    U4.N    14.86    0
"le6                                     17.29    21.4    2.       4      29.6   29.4    4    0.7    26.14  -2         11.8    1.N   -8    No.       29..1    2    44.2    W1.6 -4        8.6      NM    -N       64         49  -a9 7.           94    6      86.04   87.6    -4
Owl"                         ~~~~.M    86.12   8687    -2     .21   29MA     -2Y    44 .4 46 WU          43.29   68.2    o84 847   44.77               OD9 297   414.61   40   .M    566    -2D   77.6       N.MW  -18   477   11.07   -14   9.11   8111.19  -2
9.8544.43                            4.29    49       629     0     86        .6    1       .4)16          4      0.71    69.2  268      02 0.0 1.N              2       .6            2       0.68          0 02    48U' 0.2                C.67          029     0.11
I. -. 666M  6901                       2.29     41.4     .4    .4       44     1.4     O     144   16.81   W8    0.         S1."4  1729    0.29    6.29          02       1.2           0.29    4.27           0.29     48             .2      .70.9                 07
699 WIe-9.44                            .9     86        .7      0    26 d*N U        N      0.70     S.11  607     42       I.N           0.29    4.89           0.29    6.607         6.6      0 91          0.29    0.29           0 29    02             0.2      0.2949*
0096.62,72 I 6141.910.8.14                        8.       2 .6    -       is2    1.6?   Vs    2.87      4.41   W      2.67    4.86   N       2.76    4.1   76    2.29       64      29U    :  6.86 5.8    790   I.8       47 TV         11.47    S.1    K       4.2    8.6 2  6.         6
7.466 ~~~6..06l 1144i1,91.6  O~~1.111    7.29  .9    2      7.84    184     6?    6.11    149      0       .00    29D W   7       .9    29       9      9.84   29.29   -     ;'4186   U844  244      1.8       .     6    61.79 2.79   119         2-8.1   N.1- 11
O.fI,-.  66  h.,6   I 144,I1110.          2.84    2.11      6.9   43    8.129    4.91S,U        8.11    4.461  1,6    4.29    4.84    6    4.765    4.11   -0    6.29        6.07    0    S.11    J.86    43    8.44       O.K    -9    7.68    0.29   -17    7.76    6.71    1
7.966 8.69.t -d Lltbl11 I3.87               49.1    SI. go        49.S   ;2.2   2a   2929           .4    8    29.t      3 77.    29 631is              24    11S.6            6      96 94            4 448        0.             6.4 167           0   6.       24 



w     It 1.    "  n       4,-   to "       to VS    61-   00 or    m  L,    Co-   40 II    14 to   ".   to Ig    n  at    cg               V%    tt a       $4.   16 4      IsItIlt  to-   O'L         I III    U-               alts    w       to 4      a  9
lk-   Ill 0     or T2     w      tz P     'A  cc    vq-   Va ti    so 29             .0 it    In ot   U-   a  9          Pt All    is-   9T v      00 99    09-   it 0       "'t       a-   a  9        06'v     ar-   go %       st'l      w     U  I      a  a
im AT    m  9             00 et    -0 a             09 tt    00 0             09 at    go,&             to et    et in                                                                               I     w     2*'t          0               0      -.g
"I                                                                                                                                ol    U  It    *1 in       U'   to a       :'et    P`-   0% I         tf L                                                                                                  P.
1.    to                                                                a     oz.                                                                                    -o        '%a    =-        't         ol    W      a  9         01    10-       't     at 0
Co  a a                te a   ed                ft te  to                  Vaa   4t a                   St  a SC  49  06 ::  Pt 99                       a el                       2A 'CT  ".                   0         et  a   :,$  or 9                                           7$ -k" - t V"
9.    Co 40    'o-   zo OR    Os          to-   Ls st    I U        99.   15a        U  a    1'.        't    bg "      92-   zo         Pt 0.           at         xa       Ao-   a          Pt Oa    C4.   a          lu
'A                                        ----      ------
U I
"  0            61 I      "0              0  1         0                I     0  11           11 I      11 4                I     19 0            11           0             0         talo            60:0      so o            WC,    la'*
W.  Ls 0        1. I-    .-  a  0         1 I-             .  I     go I-    ..  Va .          11 I.   La,   96 CT    so                 P. o-    Z  I      It'.  .  .          %.    II.   96'0-    Va o-    to%-  00            16  .    4.1.  ttlo       0  o-
If-   M  a      n  69    01-   Go M       "  to    sc-   a  a        to U     or-   St         W  to   tv    19 a       91        Oi-   v 6t       to ar    OG_   a  91    42,09    CO-   09,01    911-la    U-   U.,            U  It    Olt    a's        PO'L
G"    ar etv  IT 0        2vt   OD III   bo ow    6ti   a           W  90   'At   W  Olt   00 a         WS   SL Olt   se ts    "I   to M           tc Lp    got   vt a       66'lw    at    Pt         69,       W      Is 09    0'0-    I        U,66    colts                                     wtl-POo lown
Om    t                   Z"                                        Ps I      U      ala       is       U      iz:                Lo    a  &       U.       Va-                                                  I      61 o               9      401.0     wo                                 -*..P  P--    '"Pa
I                     INC I                                     11                        11:0
el,                                                          91    44-   U  6                        Si        CL
PC    A a              a        11        44-   66            M     OZ-   bb Cl    It .1   Co-                                                                        P      1-    0P            I               IC     I t             21; 9     P                                                 Pa"-N
0        0                0         0                                         0         0               0         0               0         0               0         0                          0               0         0               0         0
Om    6 a                                           Cap       .     CO t      LOLT  .9 tt    0  0    M         P, lot   LI a      MC   60 a         v Ge             OD    so oz    M       U  ot    6% 06    0        a 91      Co Oa    I      "I's    49. fZ
:1                     .0  C    Co       Co                                               9, it                                                                                                                              tv                                       1-     0 P-
La    ti        ITT   W                                                                                        to It    90    lz oc    go 91    go    v Os         "'Zt    Lr    W91   'A 01   IX    LV CC    14TOI    91                   it    M                                          -     "a
61    4g ",   $g 40    tC    M  nt   U  4M    6Z    W  on    60 it%   tt    W   tgt   98 Lot  01    IS  Ot   99 40    It    I  C'    13 69    W                    M  MI   90 P4    et    LOW          ft 49    1       go a      to et    9      99' 0     U  V,                                               I ".4.
------   ......                                    ------   ......            ......
"t-  4P 0       so t-    al-        0     4D 1-    201   96 I.    26 c,    44a   L's a-    W  0-   on    15 E_    Co 0-           M      6t a-    uo-   Oa-  0   1           9'0-      So    ti't-    49 o-    U        68 Q-    to Q-    got   OL'o-    9'0-                                          P.
to en    M  VI            I Pat    99 on U         ba us   09 M        U      )s 9pi   Co Ob    SC    so 001   "  It    VI    WU            94 to    t       19,69    W  60    a       66 "      LO v
is    P 9    VI O"    PT    a  M           Pi 4r. a
;-.   .  ;-.              - _    ----               ---                        ......   -_                        ......           ------
et        in    ti   it   PC                                                                       La   .      :PIT   "  oo    Ps                            45    UU                  IC               to 19    c-    4 60       be 19    of    Va eV    :   a
gs                           19,       all              19,  I'll             ".  "I   1.* .                                                                                           6,6,      I                                                       9
Al       a                          le        is              St              ag        tz                        42    LO        aL    00 La    CL V?    tt    04 M         :tggl    W       04,43       ot      09    tolot    L I        t     So 9                                                 ---v
wt a                                                                                                      I   ao VI    41          o,    P, 11    el.:       n      %I0      go.:      ol    to.        go.       S.    U                          tv                                                              _-od
et   IN,:       is    ab 91    "':        Om    09 cc    Of          Lo    so et    Am :    "I   as PA    LA             *1    at It    IA                   L                                                                                     To.:
ft    11 gs    "'               OD el    U          "      0, al    L, :       .1   60 a       "                                                             15
tm    OD vt    n   9      I     99 el    a   I      iny   a   el    a  I      WI   01 91    a's    Ml   Is at    as I             001   a   V      Co.,      a               go".      1.                         Ls    $0 0      "'v       I     U   I     0.
cqtvn-)
gp-   t "et   ozm         44-   v MT   9 "61   u-   4 tt[I   t but   le.   6 1111%   I  "I  91-   9 INIZI   c Im                   01-   9 gm      9 an    0        816M      0 Am     a      v 6KI   I'M         IT    clan    S'          9      919%      L' "v                                               OVIA.
I, am    I *M      Im.                        U     0 tn      4 WC   sc-   ,"O          a tM    11-   C,.%        I 06,t   6-    9 OOCI   P 4bot   s-                  v iwt   g       I "o    A,=         a      l'US                      S'Ok      0 %U
mg
P       goot              P
P        as  :ub    am                                                                             a  I olCtt  ZM    rOa                             M    6 ou               a 009    M                   "t    "I                  on    tti
4 60        16.             Ita       C"      or-   9 at    9 M         BP    9 vall    9 ta      W     v "                                                                                                                                                                                      (,M) -1.   Co         2
---       ------   --- - -    ---   ---- .   ......    ---    ------   ------    ---    ------   -- - -
5               Ws    S   I-I,  VS   S                               we    0   --V  Ws   6  I-""   W2    S   I --Z", we   0   .."    WB   S   1-%!Lt we    a  la'"    WI   S" l."    W$
-'PA                                                                                                                                 PA                                                .,U                     I-A
coaloat .__ P -- 1. I-)
(Onat-ogal) ot-ow"s -1 "__4 0- loPkaw
(WINCH Wffll) LWONd WW WAVORP"
mum tspvw VIOMWO



0007SM4. POM SMT62
40.m4P4 Pott FNJT (Lm1.5242-041
---17---    -1. --97---         4       ----1487-----  M6.       - -   - ---- -  0  ------ti -   ------ 0.       901.---  Ohs-   ----0012---  016.-        -1--60I-----0 C-5..ti-0                        -111I  -       s.-
am    AOO-.I   I       Sm    40.w..I          a  I            tM824   O m    4404.   v      OR    4004-6    I      SM    0o-4I I S        34      40. I           VA    4S-.j            O m       I.4.    0    so    400       I
Mt0   -   b400  fio 1.1..  ....o. do                         89 8o  4   16.70    4.77  .7n       0.84    10.62  -.4   09.62    11.62  -54   42 74    17 92   -06   83.09    26W 0 -.4    65          629 1   -a      72 I   46 67  -3        606    84.62  -07   87 91   40.17  -7
M---    ..,tj.4.00    8.73   -,    6.10    6.oS    -s    7.26                                             664    46    973    87 TO 10L   12.56    9 28  -27    2.009   10.62  -01    to 41   la1W    -a6   24.71    140    -30   62.17   is 6   -09   2137                t 166    1156
642.. 6-.4246                                               0.62    a    0.84      0.80    a     2 09    0 62   -78    .2.2    045  -44    1.26         2461   97    1 62    2.22   78        a St    656    71    1 66       S0    1.06    0.62    38.2  04T    0.67    4.611 law
0.00  644.6 564  6.06.010                  1072    M2.0    la   22.21    61.0?  -62   62.6         17.7  -89   40.26   622    .43-   04.568   2.6.3   -40    6006s   87.44  -6    so 6   48.11   -6    841 7   56.6   .2-1    126a    02 9   -20  21284    1176   .0
2.-6 046 #01.1666*o                                2.00     1.516  -61    8.43     1.08  -42    40 06 .08  -8v          7.09    01.71  -04        10    4 is  -00    1a 14    3.27  -72    lIt 1    11.04  -56    2 056    It 64   4       2256      4 21   412  22.46      4 74   -76
~~~4j0j..                         8~~~~~~~~~~~~~.62    4.40    2  4.01    02 Si 0i   4.62  0.06  8    62go    0.1La   -I    t.o 7   14 17  -10    286 IS      4o49   410    370    321   .6    270S    62.64o  -14    V?701    62D7    14   046as    6. 71   to
645        6   .7    7.04    7.00  -22    .101    7714  -101   17.62   123.4   2            277    18 22   -34    I,.42    22.10   -7    46.6     61       5     62414   SI26    462     62       41,  -11    403   6247,  -27
1.400 8j.j4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                    1            :0 0.06                0W      04 0.00  0.04  0.6 000 0.6      0.60.0 82      04            0620      062          062      0.06           06      06      0       62     024            06       062
PI-,***           .200                             0.46     0.00          0.0      2 62          0620    2.24           0.02     0.62          0612    2.02           024      210            0.24     1.56          0.24     .00           0.62'    IS           "06       8.140          6
007400./(1.o.....) 6. 054... o.0 .0.00  ~1.1is  -11.62 -124  472  -6.2   -42       -84 a                     Is8 .40 -  I6.69  -20 -820   .424     6     -5.062  -126     27    4.62    -46    4        8               I48   2 S .6   47 07  78       7 48    2624  129
lint .8.0-1.A,4 ...i                         .0.6    49.62  .209   62.40  .11.40  -108   10 16-  20.70   56   620.0       I89   412   62.14  56271  14    620 12    0.32  -9          3 2462    274 de 64    42.62   -12 17 -1I9    01 00    4  7    9   70642   a272  -6
0--imp                               83-4~~~6.4    16.24   -52   914.74   81.01   -45    6.  2.62 0.2   -43   M6.06   71 21  -1a   77.62   36276   -62   37 90   24 49   44   12 to  2I4.56  1162            0   0 062W26906             121          42620   72 07   47
0.-9                                                S.6     0.00  -200    0.2      0.4D  -62    8.62     0.56   M       0.62    0.62           0 0      0  0          0 62.    0 0            0.62    0.00           0W6      0 00          00 62     .62          0 62    0.62
0o. ...  SMj4j.                                    20      6.62    1s    6.62   64  3  827    162a2.4             ?6   17 2       61 06       32.1  11  4 6           1243  2120   1486      i-1127   47.01           41   7is 7142 .24              20.6         107       160 -2P.0
8.0r0.0J(j..73..8  6.6642             -~~~~~ ~~2.17   -1.62   -a2   -1.62    -46    370   -1.01    46 2   -98   40.47    -100   162   -2.099  1 0 -162    0234   -400  16202    4.04  -10.87  460       -1a 0    824     "  I6.8        107 -21        3-7   -12ON  SM
------   -----       --~~~~~~~~~----   ---             ----       ....        ....   ....----------                         -----...
T.0. 60.-.                                  70.07   406       8 172         72.42  -42  224.08   20.0       D    J22  I  2072       2   10.=   214 00   09   71 44  20.9=       217   41 S1  21=I   430    166    162 =        M?    07    2623.4   AX    16t2970 2
AMICA?108
C.n56.0.1 - 6~~~~~~847.          60.71    8456~~~I.    -56   211.62   66.14  -40   062.72   116.81    7  256000   244.0  2    6206 18643.  106   00.01  6274    622    62 31" 17  5664      13 00   0 0            I09       16    9068    'l 02 1856  102 56   -3
C..60.s.0,..o.o.6..od              ~~~~~ ~        ~~~2.456 15    -24    2.40  2.81    -7    2 74  2.00  7    0.04    4.02    62    86    0.0 4    ea    2.00    010o   42     360      4.84    21    4387     466l   11    479        2.62   62    0625      0.8    12
-- - -         - -       -- --                                        -- - . .               .. .           . .   . . .          - -   -                 ...        ....-------
7-.0.    .0.4-. *..,1-di-                    72.217   62.44  -47   21612    so4    -42  2111.47   119.04    2  212.60   1~6.00   62   92.02   192 7:  106    W."0          248  024   04 26   107.01   478    18.3  101 77  400       2 770 I 243 62     3  1062 83 07 44   -1
80.416                                             2.14     4.12   00    2.24      2.72   40    1.06    4.74  80n       08o    06.0.6317    00W         90            0.62     8.24           80     0012            0 00    0.24           0'O    06              06       00           '5O?  M .
2.0.6600 4..l.g 05642.0.01..          3~~~~~~.26  0.07  .07    6.61   1.25  461   124 0, .10   49    11623    6692  -362   1172    it.    -20    II la   12 57   -0    7.62    13.60 70    06                   10.62          162    1126                    17.62   'a0
----              .. . .  . . .2-- -             - - -           . ..     - -                    . . .         - - -- - -
70064760116                                  70.07   43.3   -4      W 1272   72 42  -42   174.962  1206.62   a    1262.1  107 02   62  1076 S     1461    So   7184   26301   267    Al10t  219.1   06          10    120.21   607                     I"0134  0   111.62113 .  17 



878.t, 7898 "tJ (LOVI4 1.28-8.1
"WO .I SOt 70448 841.44  C.. SU-"m,8  (187-8988)
--1973  ---  ---978 ---  9k   - ---1977---  18.    ----187              ----- 8.   -1979 -----  91.-     -1488II-----  8*,    .----9861---  9*4    - ----1s.--%             ---- 1888 -----  11-   8i-                                    M--  8
Utility2  I-.0  In ....*.               118.81   12482  127.44    18  171.88   188.42   -2  881.94   198.98   -1  28.48    81.8  -28            86   289.4*   .      la08. 0    498.84    -3  8288    488.47   4M  117,811  46 4    -66  84884   4878   la2  M4.1 to M86.8         M
*44. 4...*.8.9.d 488,..*.8*o.  ~~~29.28    88.881    28.8    8   89 44    29.48    8   40.78   44l.8    I   88.48    84814    8   891.28    44.8;   -4   842    Wi.81    -9   13.88    88.74   -W.  l2824  10887   -14  U118.41  M8211  -1?  829.81  148.8   -8
8948 8It,8 8.1'8 in  -00*-          88.29   91.88   184 14   14  831.88   82.84    -3  18.28  888.1la   -l          230  189 44  -28   388.77   172.97  -45  884.87  384.23   -8  8834.88  888.88   48   8999.8       88.    -44    44148              8    888. 11888802   78
6.4. I,-o888.                          8.7  107.48   49,11  -54  187.79   89.12  -83  20218   179883  -27   M8.7 8S 12.117   -8  82.88   484*    48  844.84   847.79   W8  282.88   788.88   87    21.44   "M884 SW8   28.29    W9888   888    814.8  816.8    17
8*" 4',.4...                         125,98   188.88   88.281  -28   818 84a  217446   -8   48788  u1s3.'2  -24  84878   478.03  -14   "18118  887.48         1  78861  92882   28  727.1  1188.8    84   M22.  17$8              88  78.8 72  8811 2    a   So 88   184 .88   8
C....,l ..S9                             278    2789    as848   III   2878O  128 87  888    81.8  188.44  242   84.81   118.87  2M    48.98   117.40   157   82.92   1532 85827    4189g  171.8    8u    48.17    3172.8             M 888 482    1441.881  24   84.88    M.1,8.8    MO
80.4k.,  W0 .1h.o  u                      7.84    7.82    18.88    88      7.4    18 4   t08    4.88    29.82   218     8.28   88.28   478     4.211  89.28  81l    8.24    47.88  127       2 28    87.88  881      1.84    888   841634    8.1   88.88881740      8.8  828.74
7484*A-.81                         187.88  282.78   22*.54   -9   82.47   287.78      8  478.44   489.84   -8  84888 6 8298          8   844.88   814.2.   87   781.8  1188 29   47   771 1 18.88    78  787 48  148828   89  78408  i8*6    99  886.1   1M8*8                 88
e4,10                                    88.81   841.78   14.349    8   14. 14  218.29   29   190.39  287.2111  84  227.8        8U2   49  277.97   441.48   78  881.988 M  0872   LID  27 M9   M.1   188*       482   8882  1"   M887 IN*St  144  4118.8-1  181.2   888
L.96--48.4.8                             44.88    T 7ST  584.4   -22    828.    088.2   -88   298.88   1128.99  -48   388.83   187.4-41   a 8978    8n81.  -4   4802.88       H ad8 84  -8  9.84   406.2       8   78    442.88    89   US27   418883   OD  878Of  408.88   8
1.44..; 84.0.0889.9*48         ~~~~~ ~~8.88  4.81    4.49    83   4.88  8.89    8    9.28      M."    -4    18.7   28.18   89   88885   14.88   -18   27.00   87.91  -84   2784    14.88   -88   27.81    2 98             2   89882    M. 78   88   8.88   48.1 is       8t
OM *4887480.408                       42.41    78 88   84.87  -29   18488    84.88   41   247.05   I248   -28   32.88   177.89 .-418  875.211  8* 8   -481  8* 18  28.88  -88   872.1*   IN 84              4  848.27   418.88    20  881 08    8678    20  8114488   488.78    8
C..08 90,0914  .00sg0   408               8.88    4 85    4.48    8    4.88       889      8    9.29     8.8    -4    18.7   28.19   29   28282   18.38  -16   27.08   17.91  -88   27.8    188 Of                  27.81    2890    8   88.25  S8829       t 1158.881   IND.1 is O
0.-08  1*k4*l*9*.                         9.87    12.81    1887?  48    1881    84.72  28       I 828   84.88   228    84.8   67.77   8*6   18.41   184.78  896   18.88    S2.M  1838    7 42    18.2.8 16 8W .88    "9.As Io1    L.4as  1148    719n   24812   To."8              w
8.k0.80  09-*1.,     11818..-         7.41    8.8is    4.88   881   S,82    4.85   28    4.12    4.89    14    4.28         4.78    8    8.88s        8   43    B.8"      8.8It    8    88 25     88      78    8.88    11.88   88     7 44     78 a     8    6.82   88.7   14?
7488*188*9  .041.1.11*5*.           1257.88   88.7   8*.54   -4  88811.8?  887.73      1  478.04  4189.84    -8  848.81  888.42      A  894.89   884.28   17   788.8  1188.29   47   778.1  12283         78  78.48  14150.25   8M  7888    118*6    9984.17  1831    80



9 at     W.   I 6         N'Tt     It    6 "        I it            t 0         VI              5      6 m       69-   0 ot      6 VI      -_   I 1        4191      IV-   9'4       g'vt      a-   tlv        O'"                                                              (a) -ftft  so "ft
0-   to,                  U   "          no        fa- ot-         m         ts-   0                  w      0         oz       cc    a          tz       6"    0          91       VII   as                  'a. It-         *I        lbe- In-        s                              %        ! .
WI                                                  601                                          "     go        as        oil   WI        n         a     to        co        ?A    001       III       9     ob        0                                      O-VO)
ow-   as        to       IS"    I         As       GV_   as         lo              5         ag       61.   a                                              i,ft 'ft.    b"Of".0
Vf-   W         CP        tt-   W                         tt        4-        LS'   LV        11       V1-   0          92
II t                      0 1                       V I                         t                                                0 t         I                                                                                                                                C-14)
VV-             0 8       W               I z                                                 #11      ft'   UI         a t      VC-              a        it-   t         c I       9      V I      a t       LT    "!I       t'i       a      t I      a,
101   U         a         101   u         n         Di              49        got   At        is       Po    go                  co    a          C,                                 ox    'I        0         a      0        0,               am
O.-W
L"l   st- bw    im    ot- 9m    gm    0   an    Om    9   6#11   =1   9   dhot   WI   9   =6    m                                                                                                         0m) VVI"
a"=
V&_   La        IODI      b-    lb        wt       U_   la          OCT      I      tol       so       11%_   00        LOT      I      cli      all       Slt-  W         PDT       a-              I%%       OL-   09        66        co    ODI       u                         (S)                _!v4-1wo
in    sti       011      ini   40:        of              cot       m               u        of        ag    ot         og       IC    "         m         VI   tA         tg        im              tv        'W    69        L'        0     im        go                                            VVIW- d
t        0                t                        4         0               6         0               6         a               tc        0         Ltu   St        t        ow    a         I         WI   91         6         a      et       et                                 -toft  4t
".   V 0        t I       I               I-T      Ott   clo                 tff   2'0        I I      at    Wo        0 T       SV    t't       * 0
*a-   a 0       11                                 ti-   9 0        ?I              0         ilt                                       t I                    -     -     T'i
a        60        2-    O         06        9-    0         TV        t-    lb       ft         9     a          6        V.    OCT       0,        9     Sb        06       0      Lo        40
t'ift 0=4
a-   mot        am       st-   -46        tm       a-   a"          aDot     se-   v"         an       Li-   m          tbll     6-    tw         Loot     t-    on        IM        a     "O        Cgb       a     $140      on        9     "i        cu
W     tt        O"       Ill-  W          crV      It-   t          lm        tts- a-         ot                                 Pt.   ol        91        so    ST        0         in'  $11-       91        Ost-  VC.       P,                        (a) 1         !
'a       go    *n                  W      gm        a        in    ot         4s        11;  gm         a        Su    Va         ts       009   :1        49        et   COI        a         at   to         91        a,              a                                      O.")
Os       as        W-   to                                                                  Cs) -t
8,    6 t       VIS             7t        . I       I                 I                       I.,               I, I"    19  Iz  11  $oil:   Olt  L"t       7     I &       I                                                            to    e't        9'T
lo-   1,
ab              a         or    u         Ve        6A                        .1   a          W         u     tb        a         08    :6        19        St    to        to        SC    a                   Lt    26'       20        9-    a         'A                                    Cs)
_!4-11 V
C4
act                       an                        U"                        't"                       im                 az 10"   OC5,  rAt Wm   am    W? "W   oew   am  am   Om   99- tat
4
am                        UAX                       Low                       gm                        6m                  IT. 0969  ON   on  6m   009  rw  WS   001  m  Om   am   bz- gm   v=
tm                        t=                        us                        Cbt                       Vitt                's    ini       LPOT     0,    9"'       tool      is    ial        4vol     so    imt       to        (if    "M        Lbb                                            -is--Ob
clat                      O"                  00    m         0        "      m         60       9      96        60        ta    *CT                u      Sol      44                                               .I.
flu                       us                 69    m          "V       01,   me                  0,    on         W        'I    to         :L       ta    its       6m
p
GONCIII                   11tent                   #116#1                     4608pt                    INIMI               Os    "1911   oam        so    uoot   meo    SC            Mb    09"L    bv    tom           Q"u       g      0910     own                                              ..."v p
a 01                     0,41                      0 9                        0 at                      0 9                 ot    0 0       0 9      (L    Wo         2 2      g-    v I        9 I       In-   I t       9 s      lz-   0 1        2 9
M%       IOUI    Vq_   ab          gm        l`V_   Lwt      Lt6l      82-   909       out        19-   Lob       t"l       it-   196       gm        a-   "a         Om        ct-   m         trial     8-    6"        W*       a      on        Ks                                                IVVVL
VP_   "I        at        $11-   on       I"       W      on                        60.       m         00-   m          tte      W-   "I         Oa        ot-   W         gm        W,   an         061       41'   Cs        bvt       as-   66        Vol                                                 I!"
"O       out       a-   4"         M?        IT"    .40      6tst            I"        opt        TV-   691                 te-   mu        Mt        te-   too       106       tt-   ICL       cm              Su        en       11    6m         cgs                                                .) I ZZ
DM
s  I."     m              s               WI   5  IV-V  IIVII   s  O."                           we    5  0-    we   a                            we   s  1                 WIT   s  IV-V  Ws   a  1.1"    we   s                                       we
__mT_    _!4 __wt_                            ... _190T .....                                                               -!*                       .."                       _',
.----A                    _ VA                                                -.-A                      _--A                      -.,,-A                    -.!,.A
surum smamomw
(01"m won) mroam awed variAwr
YTAQLWID



- 43 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE EXECUTING AGENCY
Guatemala, April 25, 1989
Gentlemen:
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Dear Mr. Nowicki:
In connection with the Project Completion Report corresponding to the
Aguacapa Power Project, Loan 1426-GU, I wish to make the following
observations with respect to the below-indicated items:
3.4.9       If the Consultant maintains that had the necessary precautions
to have a more adequate lining been taken (we do not agree with
the Consultant's position that it would had been a more
conservative design criteria -- rather, it would really had
been a more adequate design in accordance with soil
conditions), it would have 'increased costs by US$13 million,"
shows, once more, his erroneous design concept, since it would
had saved the Guatemalan Government a large amount of money,
considering that total repairs amounted to US$40 million. On
the other hand, the difference between initial estimates for
repair costs and final costs, is clearly due to the fact that
when the Consultant submitted his initial estimate, based on
his amply demonstrated erroneous design criteria, &nd after
carrying out the in-situ tests requested by the Board of
Consultants, the costs were modified increasing the amounts and
types of repairs. In addition, there were other cost overruns
caused by the Consultant as, for example, when the Consultant
ordered a new series of grout curtains which have been fully
demonstrated to be useless in tufaceous materials; changes in
the treatment of the fissures originally contracted because it
was demonstrated that it was not going to have the necessary
flexibility with its subsequent re-contracting overruns, etc.
3.9.2       INDE emphatically considers that the Supervision Unit was
adequately dimensioned and the staff had the necessary
technical capability to carry out its functions, which
definitely did not include any related to design. Besides, the
remark that the Consultant considered himself an Advisor rather
than a Supervisor is no relevant to the tunnel failure since
the failures were due to design and not to supervision factors.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 15
3.9.4       INDE and the Board of Consultants have fully established that
the tunnel failure was a product of erroneous design criteria
applied by the Consultant, as was the difference of rock
modules used, the lack of adequate specifications with respect
to concrete, etc., and, therefore, INDE finds the comments made
by the Consultant unacceptable, as he attempts to blame his
errors on supervision failures.
Sincerely,
Eng. Edgar Flores Izaguirre
Planning and Projects Manager
Instituto Nacional de Electrificaci6n (INDE)
EFI/mtdc



05!0a; e    tI. 3?  2 502 2 34S785          INDE PLAN!FJCACI      P.01
- 45 -                 ANNEX 5.5
INSTITUTO NACKONAL DE ELECTRFICACON Page 3 of 15 FORMA 7410303
@I.N. D. E.
GUATEMALA, C. A.           0__        600__ 185_
DIRECCtON CREVC4enFlC
NotI ovATEMALA.                                                     l  noifnsro y  M9cA
TELEX-ltNDE-5324- U                                                   snmr  cr
Guatemala, 25 de Abril de 1,989
Sefhores
Departamento de Evaluacin de Operaciones
BANCO MUNDIAL
seflor Nowicki:
En relaci6n al Informe de Terminaci6n de Proyecto, correepondiente al Pro-
yecto Hidroelfctrico Agiacapa, PrGesLawo 1426-GU, mo pormito hacer 1aR 5i-
guientes aseveraciones respecto a los incisoe indicadoss
3.4.9    Si el Coasultor afirma que si hubieran tomado las previsiones pa-
ra tener un revestilmento mis adecuado (no es aceptable 18 posi-
ci6n del Consultor de que serfa un criterio mis conservador de di
seao, porque lo que realmente serfs, es un disefto adecuado a las
condiciones del terreno), so hubieran "incrementado los costos en
13 millones de d6lares", es una muestra mis de sue conceptos erro
neos de disefio, ya que le hubieran ahorradu al Goblerno do Guate-
mala una consiJerable suma de dinero, en virtud de que la repara-
ci6n total cost6 40 millones de d6lares. Por otro lado, la duie-
rencia entre lo estimados lniciales del coeto de la reparaci6n y
el costo final, so deben claramento a que cuando el Consultor pre
sent6 au estimado inicial, se basd en sus crtiLL.la arrfncos do -
diseho, ampliamente demostrados, que despuie de efectuados los en
sayos -de roca in-situ solicitados por el panel de consultores es-
peciales, fueron modificados lncrementando las cantidades y tipos
de reparacin. Adicionalmente hay otros sobrecostos causados por
el Consultor como por ejemplo el que el Consultor ordenara una -
nueva campafia de inyecciones de consolidaci6n que ha quedado ple-
namente demostrado que son inoperantes en los materiales tobSceoos;
el que se tuviera quo cambiar el tratamiento de grietas original-
mente contratado debido a que se comprob6 que no iba a tenor flexi
bilidad necesaria con sus consiguientes sobrecostos de recontrsta-
ci6n, etc.
..*/2. ..



es,e3 89   11339            2; se2  2 ;34l?`8               INCDE PLAN1FICACI           P.02
ANNEX 5.5
,  - 46 -                     Page  4 of 15
'I      #      INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION                         IORMA 74103.03
(WUAILMALA, C. A.
: C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uh4 nM}() 0100 1 85-159
DIRCCCION CASLEUR^FICA                                             RE!tRENCIA
MNOE GUATTMALA.                                                      A'o Olstr, Man*s rmnolono
TEi.EX.1NDE.5S24-QU                                                      We erc k ** ncI
... ./2.*..
3.9.2    INDE considera enf6tficamente que la Unidad de Supurviti6n estaba
adecuadamente dirnensionada y cotitsba conoa capacidad necesaria de
acuerdo a 6us fuuclones que definitivameate uo lncluian niinguna
relacionada con el diaenio. Adem6s, la observactin de que el Con-
sultor se considerara como Ase6or mg que como Supervisor, no tie
ne ningna re1cvjutlju al In failla dpi  tCnpI, en virtud de quo lac
fallas fueron de diseho y no de supervisifn.
3.9.4    INDE y el Panel de CunMultores Especiales han establecido plenamen
te que la falla de la galerfa fue producto de criterio6 err6neus
de diocaio aplicados por 61 Consultor .vvau lu et l.a diferencia  de
108 m6dulon da roca utilizados, no establecitiento de cupecifica-
c       tnen  ideranAdno ePn ln qto el Co01o1oIo wanpo0o  e-SO., ^w  3.i" 
eo tnaeapetaLle       INPfl b.D lus 4 udl..c  el CvLwulcor cuando preten-
die tiecvargar si raerone3bilida, on 'aillao da aupeavvioat6.
Atentamentc,
Ins.  d8~LE.I~lzaguirre
GERENTS    P.LAIFIflCACION Y PROYECIOS
EFI/mtdc



- 47 -                    ANNEX 5.5
Page 5 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
April 18, 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Chief
Projects Evaluation Department
World Bank
Ref: Aguacapa Power Project
(Loan 1426-GU)
Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Nowicki:
I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated March 20,
1989 which we received on March 27, regarding the above-mentioned report.
I have personally read the "Aguacapa Power Project Completion
Report (Loan 1426-GU)." I was directly involved in the Electrical
Subsector as INDE's General Manager from July 1966 to June 1970 (during the
first IBRD loans to the Electrical Subsector: Loan 48,-GU, Jurun Marinala
60MW and Loan 545-GU Steam Thermal Plant). Moreover, during a short period
(1982-1983) as INDE's President (Implementation of CHIXOY, before the
tunnel failure, cancellation of the Hidrochulac Executing Unit,
Coordination INDE-Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, transferring Governmental
shares from Empresa Electrica to INDE), and from 1986 to the present, as
Minister of Mining and Energy involved, in a rather indirect fashion, with
the Electrical Subsector.
My personal knowledge of the problems confronting the Guatemalan
Electrical Subsector allows me, in a very personal and unofficial manner,
to congratulRte you for a well done report. As you pointed out in your
letter, all those involved in the project should be interested in learning
from the experience and to acquire a clear vision of the actions that
should be taken, in the future, to institutionally and administratively
reorganize INDE, and for the further development of the electric aector in
the country.
With regard to the report you kindly sent me, I wish to advise you
that I have no comments to make. I remain,
respectfully yours,
Eng. Roland Castillo Contoux
MINISTER
cc:      Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy
Eng. RaOl Castafieda Illescas
General Director of Energy Planning and Development
Eng. Carlos Enrique Mansilla Mejia



-48-                   ANNEX 5.5
Page 6 of 15
IS de abril dle I9F9
S-jK. *r !.. is. Nran,d tkw .
Jefe *el Pen;xarta:.ento dt
Evalitrtc.C'n &ie R'mwecto'Q
Ref:  Piyecto Hidroelctrico de Aguacapa
(PrSs-t 1426-GU)
TnXforn de TeTminaci6n del Provecto
EstiLnado Sailor i'Nowki:
.Ienvgt el Tist"i le diriiTnmw- a iiqt-, Pt relaciftn a sti itenta nota
de fecha 20 de marzo 1989 kr recibida el ?7 del misno mes y afho, relativa al
H1t-41 le npe     1m<;flr+ntP Pt' "TtnfrinOn  Thsn'inRej6n dvR1 Proyecto ilidlro
el&trico de Agi.acapa (PrstaviKi 1426-itJ)". Estuve directamente involucrado
en el Suibsector Fi.ctrico ccm* Gerente General del INDE de julio de 1966 a
jtmio de 1970 (primueros pr6stamos del BTRF para el Subsector El1ctrico: --
487-(nU, Pm,yecto Ridroel6ctrico Ju NMarinalfi 6(MI y 545-GU Planta TUrmica
de Vapor). Asi.mismo, tn corto perlodo, 1982-1983, camo Presidente del INDE
(piteYst  en operaci&n (IXnY, antes de la falla del tinel, cancelacin uni--
dai fipoltrra Fidmnhll3e, qconrdinani6n TNT)E-Finresa Flkctrica de Guatemala,
traSlId.nqn acCicrne.?  ltktt1  *  l 1 Fnqresa Filirica al TNDE) y desde el
nAo 1q86 a Ia foha como Ministro de rnergTa y Minas imroltucrado en forna -
dfemaqi 3dto iywlirecta con el Rbsuecrtor Flktrico.
Mi conocimiento personal de la problemAtica del Subsector El4ctri
co de Guatemala me permite, cono opini6n absolutamente personal y no ofi---
cial, felicitarlo por el acertado informe que, cmo indica en su nota, to--
dos los ac.tores-involucrados deberfamos estar interesados en aprender de las
experiencias pasadas y de tener muy claras las acciones que en el futuro de
ban conduciTse para la reorgganizaci6n irstitucional y administrativa del --
IDME v para el desarrollo de la electrificaci6n del pals.



ANNEX 5.5
Page 7 of 15
SfAur A It. Alt .I  Nowicki
l.Vd ' I;-i. LV'l: JV VVzUYV .A.V....... b .i.v 
P:inrtL- .bndiial                         18 .s abril &e 1989                  ...
Al re:>spts-tO, pe pemito rnani.festarle qtte el suscTito no tiene
nin';n- o              l..s i6n  't rr.fone del cvt1l se sirvi6 elvia'rme tua copia.
-r    ..^sJ la ;1portimidul3  pe3ra  us;cribirme,
Atenta nente,
Ix'Mx
I -s           I         -
*'   ' at'ti ti   tif t-+ wrri-fa -v minas .
Tr17  Dqil1   t$i(dq T11.cr'c
nirprt1r r*-nttrql tip Planificaci6n v Desarrollo  hnere6ticO,
fnv,. Carlos Fnritiua Mansilla Meiia



- 50 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 8 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Chief
Projects Evaluation Department
World Bank
I have no comments on the 'Project Completion Report on Aguacapa
Power Project (Loan 1426-GU)". I have sent a personal note in thie regard.
Sincerely,
Eng. Roland Castillo Centoux
MINISTER
ENERGY AND MINING MINISTRY
GUATEMALA



- 51 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 9 of 15
sepinr x1f*Nl !er Nowicki
Jefe del Liepartamrerto de
bivaltaci6n de Proyecets
RThm-n M,bmdij.a
N'ir..-(n rompntstnin "Thforvfp Teri-i:4riAn diel Provectr  Hidroelktricrm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s tf ~    rnitt. tfal ve, ree
i:.   J. ng. gm.IC%~Potoug
4 MINISTRO  nEbLk Y;        lTIUATMA
, 4 *f~~~~~~C



- 52 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 10 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
Guatemala, April 27, 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki, Chief
Policy-Based Lending, Energy, Industry,
Uuban Sector & Public Utilities Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
We thank you for sending us the Aguacapa Power Project Completion Report
(Loan 1425-GU). We consider that this evaluation report will be the basis
for learning from past experience and to avoid, in the future, the mistakes
made; it will also serve to combine the internal and external elements,
political, technical, social, economic, financial and other factors
encompassed in project analysis.
We will try to apply, technically, the follow-up of the project execution
process to identify possible problems and make the corresponding
corrections and/or amendments.
Sincerely,
Ing. Marciano Castil'o G.
General Secretary
National Economic Planning Council
MEB/ezp



- 53 -
C'^r'r:e Ia!'-! nn! d d                                            Page 11 of 15
Planiffaci1n Econ 6mica
*, ;, q  , f ' .it t             q    9
i.,-4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-iu    A    W    '@
Guatemala.
27 de abril de 1989
Al        ' :L,,;lCftJ
Jefe
Divisi6n de Prfstomos para
Ajustes de Polfticas Econdmicas
y Sectoriales3 Industria,
Servicios PNblicos y Sector Urbano
Departamento de Evaluacifn de Proyectos
HE WORLD BANK 1818 H. STREET N.YK.
Washington D.C. 20433. USA
(202) 477-1234. CARIE APDDRESS! INMBAFPAD
Esta Secretarta General, agradece el envlo del Informe de Terminacldn del
Proyecto Hidroelictrlco de Aguacapa (PrOstano 1425-GU). ademSs, considera
que esta evaluacion serviri de base para tomar conclencia de lo sucedido
y para que en el futuro so corrijan los errores incurridos; ast cow tam-
bin, para que se combinen los elementos Internos como externos. de origen
ticnico. polftico, social, econ&mico, financiero y otros quo conhlova el
anAlisis de los proyectos.
Asimismo, aplicar en forma tienica el -.gtu"miento del "moceso de ecu -
cidn de los mtsmos para detectar posibles problemas y efectuar las correc
ciones Y;o eni,iiendds oe-tlnentes.
Atentamente.                   / o
MEB/ezp.                                                                 GENE
S*d.MRaN             C 



- 54 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 12 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE CO-FINANCIER
REFERENCE NR 347
FROM: FONDO DE INVERSIONES DE VENEZUELA
CARACAS, APRIL 21, 1989
TO: MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI
CHIEF, LENDING DIVISION
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C.
I AM PLEASED TO REFER TO YOUR COMMUNICATION OF MARCH 20, 1989, REQUESTING
FIV'S COMMENTS ON THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON THE AGUACAPA POWER
PROJECT.
IN THIS CONNECTION, I WISH TO ADVISE YOU THAT, IN GENERAL TERMS. THIS
INSTITUTION DOES NOT HAVE ANY COMMENTS TO MAKE. FIV'S LOAN TO THE PROJECT
AMOUNTED TO BOL$128.8 MILLION, EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION APPROXIMATELY,
FOR CIVIL WORKS, PRICE ltdCREASES, AND PROJECT CONTINGENCIES.
SINCERELY,
AQUILES VILORIA VILORIA
C.F.I. MANAGER



- 55-                 ANNEX 5.5
Page 13 of 15
WORLDIBANK TMSS
ZCZC OERPOISI JUS0126
OEttEI2
.TCP FCA
* OEDt'2 *
JWS0126 JGZ649 IN 21/09:57 OUT 21/10:00
29670 FIVEN VC
REF NR 347
FROM: FONDO DE INVERSIONES DE VENEZUELA
CARACAS, 21 DE ABRIL DE 1989
SE OR ALEXANDER NOUICKI
JEFE DIVISION DE PRESTANOS
DEPARTAMENTO DE EVALUACION DE PROYECTOS
BANCO MUNDIAL
UASHINGTON DC
TENGO EL AGRADO DE DIRIGIRME A USTED, EN LA OPORTUNIDAD DE HACER
REFERENCIA A SU COMUNICACION DEL 20-03-89, MEDIANTE LA CUASE V
PRESENTO A ESTE INSTITUTO EL INFOP;'E DE TERMINACION DEL
PROYECTO HIDROELECTRICO DE AGUACAPA, Y SE SOLICITAN LAS
OBSERVACIONES DEL FIV SODRE EL MISMO.
AL RESPECTO0 LE INFORMO WUE EN GENERAL ESTE INSTITUTO NO TENDRIA
DBSERVACIONES DUE PLANTEAR, EN TODO CASO LE COMUNICO QUE EL
PRESTAMO FJV, ALCANZO A DS. 128,8 MILLONES,, EGUIVALENTES A LA
FE0HA DE USDRLS 30.0 MILLONES APROXIMADANENTE, DESTINADOS A LAS
OBRAS CIVILER, ESCALAMEINTOS DE PRECIOS E INPREVISTOS DEL
PROYECTO.
ATENTAMENTEI
AGUILES VILORIA VILORIA
GERENTE C.F.I.
QQ
EFB
29670 FIVEN VC....



- 56 -
ANNXEX 5.5
Page 14 of 15
(TRANSLATION)
COMMENTS FROM THE CO-FINANCIER
TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS, C. A., MAY 04, 1989
MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI, CHIEF
POLICY-BASED LENDING, ENERGY, INDUSTRY
URBAN SECTORS & PUBLIC UTILITIES DIVISION
OPERATIONS EVALUATIONS DEPARTMENT
WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C.
REFERENCE: AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
LOAN 1426-GU, PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEAR MR. NOWICKI:
WITH REFERENCE TO THE ABOVE-MENTIONED PROJECT, THIS IS TO ADVISE YOU THAT
BASED ON THE ANALYSIS MADE BY OUR TECHNICAL STAFF TO THE REPORT YOU
SUBMITTED, WE DO NOT HAVE ANY COMMENTS TO MAKE.
SINCERELY
RIGOBERTO MERINO MONCADA
ADMINISTRATION SUPERVISOR
BANCADIE



- 57-
ANNEX 5.5
UORLDBANK ThSS                                         Page 15 of 15
ZCZC OERP0165 JUS0608
OEDI'2
.TCP EI.S.
* ** **** **
* OEDD2 *
3JS0608 ZJX598 IN 04/12:05 OUT 04/12:08
1103 BANCADIE HO
TEGUCIGALPA HONDrURAS CA MAYO 04/1989
SENOR ALEXANDER NOUICKI
JEFE DIVISION DE PRESTAKOS PARA
AJUSTES DE POLITICAS ECONOtICAS Y
SECTORIALES. INDUSTRIA. SERVICIOS
PUDLICOS Y SECTOR URBANO
DEPARTAMENTO DE EVALUACION DE PROYECTOS
BANCO NUNDIAL
UASHINGTON
REF: PROYECTO HIDROELECTRICO BE AGUACAPA
PRESTAMO 1426-GU. INFORNE DE EUKCITN
EX-POST DEL PROYECTO
ESTIMADO SENOR NOUICKI:
EN RELACION CON EL PROYECTO DE LA REFERENCIA, NOS PERPITINOS
MANIFESTARLE QUE EN BASE AL ANALISIS EFECTUADO POR NUESTROS
TECNICOS AL INFORME PRESENTADO POR USTEDES. NO TENENOS NINGUNA
OBSERVACION AL RESPECTO.
ATENTAMEN1t1
RIGOBERTO MERINO MONCADA
ENCARGADO ADMINISTRACION SUPERIOR
BANCADIE
1103 BANCADIE HO
1103 BANCADIE HO
=05041248
NNNN



