Document of                            RN
FILE COPY rWThe World Bank                                                RETURN TO
F LE COPY                                                              R F-PORtTs DESK34
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              REWITHS 1N
|ONE W1EEK 
Report No. P-2069-GU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR
A THIRD POWER PROJECT
May 5, 1977
This document has a restrietcd distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Quetzal (Q)
Q1.0O = 100 centavos = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
INDE's fiscal year ends December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CEL     -   Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rfo Lempa (El Salvador)
EEG     -   Empresa Electrica de Guatemala
FIV     -   Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
INDE    -   Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
IDB     -   Inter-American Development Bank
CABEI   -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
Th document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfommnce
of ther Official dutie. Its commta may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriaton.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$55.0 million to Instituto Nacional de
Electrificacion (INDE), with the guarantee of the Republic of Guatemala,
for a third power project.   The loan would have a term of 17 years, in-
cluding 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
Co-financing for the project will be provided by loans totalling US$30.0
million from the Venezuelan Investment Fund (VIF) and US$8.8 million from
the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Guatemala" (Report No. 681-GU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1975, and a special report on the situation following the
earthquake of February 4 was distributed on March 16, 1976 (Sec M86-171).
An economic mission visited Guatemala in November 1976 and is now preparing
a report that will focus on the resource requirements for a simultaneous
implementation of the earthquake reconstruction program and of the 1975-79
Development Plan which was prepared prior to the earthquake.    The main
conclusions of the above reports and the preliminary conclusions of the
November mission have been incorporated in the following paragraphs.    A
country data sheet is attached as Annex 1.
3.        Guatemala has the largest population and the most diversified
physical environment of the five countries in Central America. The rugged
central highland area is marked by continuing volcanic activity and occasional
seismic disturbances, the:most recent of which was the devastating earthquake
of February 4, 1976.   The varied climate and rich soils allow the cultivation
of almost any type of agricultural product.    Some mineral resources exist,
of which one of the most important is nickel; its commercial production will
begin this year under a project receiving financial support from the IFC.
Guatemala's natural beauty, pleasant climate, archeological monuments, folk-
lore and proximity to the United States give it a high potential for tourism
development.    Most of the country's population and economic activity is
in the central highlands.' Nearly all the major urban centers and most of
the country's industrial and agricultural activities are also located there.



- 2 -
4.        According to the latest revised census data, Guatemala's population
now totals about 6.5 million and is growing at 3.2 percent per year. The
most significant characteristic of the population is its sharp ethnic division.
The pure Tndians, who make up about 40 percent of the total population, live
outside the mainstream of Guatemalan society.    While their separation from
the rest of the population has its roots in the cultural and linguistic
differences between the two groups, it has been accentuated by disparities
in access to land, employment, infrastructure, and other public services.
Although a national income distribution enquiry has never been conducted,
an unequal pattern of land tenure, combined with the limited access to
productive employment outside of agriculture, points to a sharply skewed
pattern of income distribution.    Considering, however, that a large part
of the people live essentially outside the monetized sector, any effort
to reduce income disparities must place emphasis on providing increased access
to public services, so as to integrate the Indian population into the economic
life of the country and make their efforts to increase their meager incomes
more productive. The Government's strategy for rural development places
emphasis on extending social and productive infrastructure to the rural areas
(see paragraph 8).
5.        The economy grew at an average annual rate of 5.7 percent in real
terms from 1970 to 1975. Commerce and agriculture were the main contributors
to growth, accounting together for over one-half of the total increase in
GDP over the period. These sectors each accounted for about 28 percent of
GDP in 1975. Although manufacturing had been a vital source of growth in the
economy in the 1960's, during the period 1970-75, it grew slightly more slowly
than total GDP; its average growth in 1974 and 1975, influenced by the world
recession, was only 1.5 percent per year.
6.        In February of 1976, an earthquake spread ruin across about 3,500
square miles of the most heavily populated part of Guatemala. However,
the country's agricultural and industrial production capacity was not heavily
damaged, and although there was substantial damage to infrastructure (trans-
portation, communication and water supply in particular), most facilities,
other than those at Puerto Barrios, were restored rather quickly to their
pre-quake levels.l/ Consequently, the earthquake had little lasting impact
on the country's productive capacity. Although in 1975 the GDP growth rate
slowed to 2 percent (due partly to adverse weather for agriculture), in 1976
there was a strong recovery. With the impetus of the reconstruction activity,
favorable coffee prices and better climatic conditions, the increase in GDP
last year was about 8.6 percent. In the coming years, Guatemala should be able
to maintain an average annual growth rate at or exceeding the 6 percent level
of the early 1970's.
1/ The facilities at Puerto Barrios are now being restored with financial
assistance from the World Bank under the Earthquake Reconstruction
Project which the Board approved on July 16, 1976.



- 3 -
7.        The Government has estimated the cost of earthquake reconstruction
at about US$1.1 billion in current prices over the next ten years, of which
about US$750 million represents expenditures to be made during the first
three to four years. Around US$500 million of the total might be considered
as direct replacement costs excluding upgrading. Details of the damage
suffered by various sectors in the economy are given in the above-mentioned
earthquake reconnaissance report and the President's Report for the Earth-
quake Reconstruction Project (No. P-1888-GU).
8.        Despite the high cost of the reconstruction program, the Govern-
ment has announced its intention to continue the 1975-79 Development Plan,
a plan which implies more than a doubling of the present public investment
level and substantial increases in current expenditures. This program places
considerable emphasis on two areas. First, it stresses the need to increase
the productivity of small- and medium-size farmers, the majority of whom
are Indians, so that their standard of living may be brought more into line
with that of the rest of the country.     The program proposes that the
Government's rural sector objectives be met through public investment in
infrastructure, in marketing and credit facilities and in technological
improvements. This investment, which constitutes about 15 percent of the
planned public capital expenditures, is expected to stimulate widespread
complementary investment by the private sector.
9.        Second, the plan gives high priority to accelerating investments
in the electric energy sector, where rapid action is required to prevent
energy shortages from becoming a bottleneck in the country's development.
This investment in power is critical to Guatemala's future development, both
economic and social, for the very low level of investment in this sector
in recent years has left Guatemala the most poorly supplied of all Central
American countries in terms of installed capacity per capita and the lowest
after Honduras in terms of per capita consumption of electric power. Moreover,
Guatemala is far below the international average for a country with its
current per capita income; a study of 70 developing countries indicates an
expected value for annual consumption of 400-500 kWh per capita instead of
Guatemala's actual 184 kWh.
10.       Furthermore, unless Guatemala takes steps   towards a fuller
utilization of her substantial hydroelectric potential, development in the
medium and long term will be adversely affected by the diversion of foreign
exchange resources to pay for oil. Even though oil has been discovered in
the northern part of Guatemala, present proven and probable reserves would
be sufficient to meet only less than one-fourth of the internal demand
projected for 1980. Expenditures on imported oil in 1976 are estimated at
US$135 million (14 percent of the import bill), compared to only US$15
million or 5 percent of imports in 1970. The Government's policy of
accelerated investment in hydro power, which will lessen dependence on oil-
fired thermal generation, will have a significant impact on Guatemala's
future balance of payments situation. For example, the proposed Aguacapa
hydroelectric project is expected to produce oil import savings of about
US$15 million per year compared to producing the same amount of energy with
a thermal plant designed to handle similar peak loads. This saving is equal
to 11 percent of the current oil import bill. By 1983, both Aguacapa and
the proposed 300MW hydroelectric unit at Chixoy should be in operation. These,



- 4 -
combined with the planned 30MW Moyuta geothermal unit, will reduce the share
of oil-fired plants in total generation capacity from the present 63 percent
to about 27 percent. If thermal rather than the proposed hydro and geothermal
projects had been chosen to meet the projected demand, the additional cost of
oil imports by 1985 would have been about US$50 million per year (at today's oil
prices). This expected import saving is equal to about 25 percent of present
capital goods imports.
11.       Full achievement of the investment targets will require efforts to
improve project preparation capacity. Also, mobilizing the financing required
to support the increased government investment, including both the recontruc-
tion effort and the revised 1975-79 Development Plan, will probably require
both increased participation of external lenders and internal fiscal reform.
Public sector savings traditionally have been low; although Central Government
savings increased significantly in 1973 and in 1975, they have remained below
2 percent of GDP. In 1974, a number of changes were made in the tax laws which
sought to provide the Government with more adequate revenues. Since a major
share of these tax measures were enacted early in 1974, the effect on government
revenues was felt immediately; overall tax revenues in 1974 exceeded those of
1973 by nearly 32 percent. These measures raised the share of government tax
revenues in GDP from 8.3 to around 9 percent. In 1975, the share rose to 9.4
percent, but in 1976 is estimated to have fallen back to 8.9 percent because an
inelastic tax structure yielded revenues whose growth was falling behind the
inflationary indicators, and there were no further reforms to rectify this effect.
Also, tax collections were somewhat less strictly enforced during the period
following the earthquake
12.       As a first step towards increasing its revenue to meet reconstruction
requirements, the Government has instituted a forced savings plan by which all
businesses, and individuals earning more than US$200 per month, are obligated
to invest in government reconstruction bonds, which are also available for
voluntary purchase. This measure is intended to generate gross revenues of
US$122.0 million over a 12-month period, which would be 80 percent of the
additional revenues needed specifically for projected Central Government local
currency expenditures on earthquake reconstruction. The Government expects at
least half of the issue to be purchased on an obligatory basis and that most of
the remainder will be taken up voluntarily. Even though this measure represents
an important new source of finance, the Government will probably have to seek
additional sources of revenue if it is to finance the public sector
investment planned for this decade. The reasons for this are several: First,
it is likely that some of the reconstruction bonds planned for sale on a
voluntary basis will not be placed in the private sector but will remain with
the Central Bank; second, the funds generated by the reconstruction bond sale
will have to be repaid with interest; and third, Government savings together
with forecast foreign assistance will still not be sufficient to fully cover the
proposed total public sector investment through 1979. However, a slight increase
in the tax burden from 8.9 to about 10 percent of GDP should be feasible and
should hold to manageable levels the amount of commercial borrowing necessary to
complete the financing of the planned investment.
13.       The balance of payments situation improved markedly between 1971, when
there was a current account deficit of US$49.0 million (due largely to a decline
of agricultural export earnings), and 1973, when there was a US$8.0 million
surplus on current account.  From 1973 to 1976, the trade gap increased



- 5 -
dramatically. The volume of merchandise imports grew by 11.6 percent per
year while that of exports grew by 4.5 percent. This, combined with the
price increases led by petroleum, resulted in a 126 percent increase in
import value compared to a 59 percent increase in the value of exports over
this three-year period. By the end of 1976, the resource balance had
deteriorated to a minus US$142 million, compared to a positive balance of
US$15.2 million in 1973. There was a positive current account balance of
about US$5 million in 1976, however, largely because of the extraordinary
level of transfers (see below).
14.       Foreign exchange reserves rose from US$196.1 million in 1973 to an
estimated US$513.4 million by the end of 1976. An important factor in this
growth was the large increase in private sector flows, of which about half has
been direct investment. In 1976, transfers were also substantial; this category -
in large measure donations related to the earthquake - increased from US$72.7
million in 1975 to US$207.5 million in 1976. In relation to imports, reserves
grew from the equivalent of 5 months of imports in 1973 to 5 1/2 months at the
end of 1976.
15.       Coffee continues to be the leading export of Guatemala and is estimated
to have accounted for US$265 million or about 34 percent of merchandise exports
in 1976. Sugar exports were particularly profitable in 1975, but the earnings in
1976 are estimated to have fallen by almost 20 percent with the sharp drop in the
world price of sugar. Earnings from tourism in 1976 will show a slight increase
over the 1975 level in spite of the earthquake.
16.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments are difficult
to assess because of the uncertainties surrounding the effects of the
earthquake. Most tourist facilities are already back in operation, and it
is hoped that tourism will continue its past rapid growth in 1977.
Prospects for agricultural exports in the medium term are also fairly
good, considering that the prices for coffee and for beef should remain
relatively high for a few years to come.
17.       Nickel exports will begin in 1977, and the rate of growth of
export volumes of manufactured goods should rise from 7 percent in 1977
to about 10 percent per year by 1980. Important to this growth, however,
will be the planned acceleration of investment in electric power.    As
mentioned above, investment in this sector has lagged badly in recent years,
and present firm capacity is almost fully utilized.   Without an expansion
of generating capacity, the industrial sector, which consumes nearly half
of all power generated, is likely to stagnate.
18.       On the import side, expenditures in 1977 and 1978 should be only
moderately above the high levels of 1976. However, the transfers associated
with the earthquake will largely cease in the next year or two, which will
result in significantly larger current account deficits between now and 1980.
Nevertheless, it is unlikely that the current account deficit will exceed 4-5
percent of GDP in the next few years.



- 6 -
19.       Because-Guatemala has traditionally borrowed little on commercial
terms, there is scope for increasing foreign borrowing without impairing
the country's creditworthiness. Guatemala's debt service ratio has been
relatively low in the past (about 3 to 4 percent of exports in 1973 through 1976).
Also, the structure of the external public debt has improved substantially
over the last few years as a result of the increased share of international
financial institutions in Guatemala's external borrowing. It is expected
that commercial borrowing together with the expected levels of official
lending which will be required to finance the planned public investment will
increase the debt service ratio from its present level of 4 percent to a
maximum of about 10 percent in the early 1980's.
External Assistance
20.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been provided
primarily by USAID, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). IDB funds have
carried a substantial concessional element and often contain significant
components repayable in local currency. The IDB has made loans for agriculture
(credit, irrigation and fisheries), electric power, housing, transportation,
water supply and health services. USAID has financed mainly rural development,
rural electrification, housing and health facilities. CABEI has concentrated
mainly on projects with a regional impact in highways, telecommunications,
agriculture and industry. The lending of these agencies from 1950 to the end
of 1975 is summarized as follows:
(In millions of US dollars)
IBRD     AID       IDB     CABEI Total
Total (1950-1975)                 92.5    94.8    148.5      119.5  455.3
Cumulative Lending 1950-65                   18.2    16.0     23.3        6.4   63.9
Cumulative Lending 1966-75                   7473    T88     125.2      113.1  391.4
Transport                           -       .8     33.1       38.0   71.9
Power and Telecommunications      64.0     7.0      1/        38.3 109.3
Education                          6.3     8.6     18.8         -    33.7
Health                                     5.9     49.8        2.4   58.1
Agriculture                        4.0    32.0     14.9      26.2   77.1
Industry                            -     10.0       -         -    10.0
Other                               -     14.5      8.6       8.2   31.3
1/ IDB made loans of US$105 million for electric power in 1976.



- 7 -
21.       In the next few years, IDB is expected to consider financing of
projects in electric power, industry, tourism, agriculture and rural
development, highways, health and education. AID is expected to consider
projects principally in education, agriculture and rural development, and
CABEI, projects with a regional impact. It is too early to say precisely
how much reconstruction finance Guatemala can expect from official sources,
but it seems likely that the US$270.0 million which the Government has
requested may be difficult to raise. Based on loan approvals and plans of
other multilateral and bilateral agencies, an amount of around US$200.0
million appears more realistic.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.     Guatemala to date has received ten Bank loans, totalling US$133.5
million. The most recent operations are loans for a second education
project (for US$14.5 million signed March 5, 1976), and for earthquake
reconstruction (US$26.5 million, including US$20 million on Third Window
terms, signed on August 2, 1976). These loans have only just become
effective because of delays arising from the lengthy internal procedures
required for Congressional ratification of the loans and execution of
subsidiary agreements. In the meantime, however, implementation of the
education and reconstruction projects has been proceeding with Government
funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
23.       In addition to the loans for earthquake reconstruction, the Bank
has provided assistance through two loans for education, two loans for
power, two loans for telecommunications and one loan each for highways and
livestock development. After an initial loan for highways, made in 1955,
the Bank suspended operations in Guatemala because of the failure of
successive Guatemalan Governments to settle a dispute regarding three
outstanding sterling bond issues. Following settlement of the sterling
debt, the Bank resumed lending to Guatemala in 1967.
24.       Bank lending to Guatemala in the next several years will be
designed to (1) support projects in the more traditional sectors where we
expect to be able to make a meaningful contribution to sectoral objectives,
and to strengthening and diversifying the productive base of the economy,
(2) give increased emphasis to the rural sector, (3) assist Government
programs in education and training, and (4) assist Guatemala to strengthen
institutional capacity to provide low cost housing in Guatemala City and
secondary urban centers. Given the importance to the balance of payments
of exploiting Guatemala's ample hydroelectric resources, the importance
to industrial growth of a reliable supply of electric energy, the large
resource requirements of the sector, and the fact that there is a major
role for the Bank in the strengthening of sectoral institutions, a substantial
share of Bank lending is planned for electric power. As the two projects
in the medium-term power investment program for which Bank financing has
been requested - the proposed project and the Chixoy hydroelectric project -
are scheduled to go forward this year, proposed Bank lending for electric
power would be concentrated in 1977.
25.       In agriculture and rural development, the Bank has participated
in an analysis, now being finalized, of Guatemala's agricflltural plans
and programs conducted as part of a joint IBRD, IDB and AID agricultural
and rural survey of the five Central American countries. A number of
projects estimated at a total cost of more than UI5$J30 million have been
identified through this process. These projects cover the areas of soil
conservation, irrigation and drainage, rural roads, cooperative development,
rural formal and non-formal education, livestock, marketing development,
agro-industry and credit. The next step will be for the Government to propose



- 9 -
an allocation of the projects among the external lending agencies. In the
meantime, a second agricultural credit project is being considered for
appraisal within the next two months. The project would assist Guatemala
in raising production of livestock, food crops and edible oils. It will
benefit small farmers, mainly those settled under programs for the
distribution of public lands, as well as medium and large farmers and
agro-processors. In education, future lending is likely to give priority
to expanding lower secondary education, with pre-vocational orientation, to
small towns and rural areas throughout the country. In urban housing, a
sites and services project would be developed in light of the experience
gained under the earthquake reconstruction project.
26.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will be 10-15 percent on average through
1980. The Bank's share of debt service in 1976 is estimated at 16 percent;
it is projected to drop slightly in the future with increased borrowing from
commercial sources.
27.       IFC has made two investments in Guatemala.   The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The second,
a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras Izabal,
S.A. (EXMIBAL), a Guatemalan company established to exploit a nickel ore
deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in July 1973.
After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and in arranging
additional financing made necessary by substantial cost overruns, construction
is progressing satisfactorily and plant operation is expected to begin in
mid-1977.



- 10 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
28.       Gross energy consumption in Guatemala is low by Central American
standards. It amounted to 1.97 million tons of oil equivalent (M.T.o.e.)
in 1973, which converts into 0.34 tons of oil equivalent (T.o.e.) per
capita, a figure well below the regional average of 0.44 T.o.e. per capita.
While consumption of energy derived from petroleum and hydrologic resources
has been growing in importance, a high proportion (estimated at about 46
percent in 1973) is still derived from wood and bagasse.
29.       Guatemala presently imports all petroleum fuels; exploratory
work in potential petroleum areas is being carried out, with some limited
success already apparent (see paragraph 10 above). The country has a large,
technically exploitable hydroelectric potential which is estimated at
4,300NIW. This contrasts sharply with the 121MW (2.5 percent of the
potential) in installed hydroelectric capacity. Guatemala should also
have an exploitable geothermal potential, as the geological characteristics
of the country are similar to those of El Salvador and Nicaragua, where
the feasibility of geothermal-based power development has been established.
30.       Gross consumption of electric energy grew at an average rate of
11.5 percent per annum between 1970 and 1975. In 1975 the industrial sector
accounted for 45 per.cent of the total power consumption, while residential
consumption amounted to 27 percent and commercial consumption to 15 percent.
The remainder was absorbed by the government sector. The relative market
share of the industrial sector is expected to grow during the project period
and reach about 47 percent of the market by the end of the decade. The overall
electricity consumption is forecast to grow at 11 percent per annum through
1982.
31.       In 1974 Guatemala ranked fourth among the Central American
countries in consumption of electric energy per capita and fifth in terms of
installed capacity per capita.
Consumption           Installed Capacity
Country                         (Kwh per capita)    (KW per 1,000 population)
Costa Rica                           764                      212
Nicaragua                            405                       126
El Salvador                          254                        79
Guatemala                            184                        43
Honduras                             157                        49
The geographical distribution of the electricity load is very
uneven. While, on the one hand, the average consumption of electricity by



- 11 -
the 1.8 million inhabitants of Guatemala City and nearby areas (Departments
of Guatemala, Escuintla and Sacatepequez) was 456kWh per capita; on the
other hand, the average consumption of electricity in the rest of the
country, with 4.7 million inhabitants, was 33kWh.   This disparity is largely
the result of higher industrial consumption in Guat-mala City and its
environs, although household consumption is also he -ily concentrated in this
area. Thus, 50 percent of households in this area had electricity service,
as compared with only 16 percent in the rest of the country.
Power Sector Organization
32.       Public electric service in Guatemala is provided by the Instituto
Nacional de Electrificaci6n (INDE), Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A.
(EEG), a few small private enterprises, and numerous municipalities. Some
of the smaller utilities have their own generating capacity and are not in
the interconnected system; the remainder purchase bulk energy from TNDE or
EEG.
33.       EEG, a former subsidiary of Boise Cascade, USA, was created iv
1922 and received a 50-year concession covering Guatemala City and
environs. Shortly before the EEG concession expired in May 3972, the
Guatemalan Government and EEG's parent company reached an agreement whereby
the Government bought 95 percent of EEG's common stock.   A new Board
and new General Manager were appointed, and a five-year extension to
the concession was granted. INDE was created in 19,59 by the Government
to serve the country outside the EEG concession area and to assume
responsibility for the expansion of power generation capacity. In 1975
INDE's share of public service generation was 68 percent compared to 30
percent for EEG; in the same year EEG's share of retail sales was 76
percent while INDE's was 10 percent. Of the present total generating
capacity of 326MW, about two-thirds is in the interconnected system
served by EEG and INDE and located in the southern part of the country
where three-fourths of the population resides.
Power Sector Development
34.       Although INDE's charter endowed it with ample authority, it was
unable to generate the financial resources or develop the institutional capacity
commensurate with its challenging tasks. It was charged with developing and
executing a program for expansion of power generation capacity, requiring
heavy capital investment, yet it was unable to raise adequate tariff revenues,
mainly because of resistance by its major customer, the strong and well-
established EEG. Furthermore, inadequate planning and weak project preparation
capacity prevented INDE from exploiting the country's abundant hydroelectric
potential. Between 1962 and 1976, only 40 percent of capacity additions were
hydroelectric compared with 95 percent recommended by the UNDP-financed power
study carried out by Acres International in 1960-62 with the Bank as Executing
Agency.



- 12 -
35.       As a result, installation of new generation capacity has not always
kept pace with growing needs, there have been periods of service interruptions
and, at present, the system does not have adequate reserve. Moreover, the
failure to develop hydroelectric resources forced the country to confront the
energy crisis with a primarily thermal-based power system.
36.       The Government that took office in 1974 adopted as a major policy
objective the development of the country's hydroelectric potential and the
overall strengthening of the energy sector. The Government's new emphasis
coincided with the completion of the first phase of a master plan for the
development of the electric system which grew out of discussions between the
Bank and the Guatemalan authorities in 1972 and was financed by a technical
assistance grant from the Federal Republic of Germany. This work enabled
the Government for the first time to base its power investment program on
a comprehensive long-range plan. The medium-term program which had been
developed from individual project studies was confirmed by the master
plan and includes the 90MW Aguacapa hydroelectric project for operation in
1979 and the 300MW Chixoy hydroelectric project for 1982. To fill capacity
requirements before Aguacapa comes on stream, the program includes two 25MW
gas turbine plants (now undergoing trial operation) and one 53MW steam plant
scheduled for operation by mid-1977. The program also calls for development
of a first (30MW) geothermal plant by 1981 (subject to confirmation by
feasibility studies now underway).
37.       In transmission and distribution, aside from the normal expansion
associated with the new generating plants to be constructed, INDE is now
planning two important initiatives. The first is an interconnection line to
link the power systems of Guatemala and El Salvador. INDE and the Salvadorean
power company have contracted consultants for a feasibility study of the
interconnection to be financed internally by both El Salvador and Guatemala.
To reduce the heavy imbalance in access to electricity between the EEG concession
area and the rest of the country, INDE early in 1976 began preparing for the first
timea national rural electrification program. Some limited efforts in this area
have been initiated in recent years. In 1971, USAID with a US$7.0 million loan,
financed transmission lines and related substations through the Western Highlands
(San Marcos, Huehuetenango and Quiche) and the Northern Lowlands (Baja Verapaz
and Alta Verapaz). These transmission lines were connected to distribution systems
to serve 61 towns and villages, thereby providing reliable, full-time power to
these areas. The transmission network now in place is adequate to serve a large
number of other villages as well. INDE has recently built some substations and
distribution networks in the eastern part of the country, laying the foundation
for further expansion in this area. The new program,preparation of which has
now been completed, is designed to expand the rural electrification effort
substantially, both in size and in geographical coverage. Since the construction
and operation of rural distribution systems are relatively simple and do not
require a large number of skilled workers, INDE will have the capacity to expand
services to the rural population while construction of large hydro projects is
being carried out.



38.       Wlen the medium-term power investment program outlined above was
developed by the Government in 1975, it was apparent that even with planned
strengthening of sector entities (discussed below), there would be need for
substantial external assistance for the program, the total cost of which
during 1977-81 is approximately US$550 million. The Government therefore has
approached the Bank, CABEI and the Venezuelan Investment Fund - VIF (under the
latter's oil facility for Central America) for financing Aguacapa; the Bank,
IDB,CABEI, VIF, supplier's and commercial banks for the large (estimated cost:
almost US$300 million) Chixoy project; CABEI for geothermal development and
the interconnection line with El Salvador; and IDB (and possibly AID) for the
rural electrification program. The interim thermal investment program is being
financed by suppliers' credits and local bond issues. In view of the long
construction lead time required, construction of Chixoy has to begin at
approximately the same time as Aguacapa, and IDB has already approved a loan
package of US$105 million for this project (of which US$15 million represents
commercial bank financing channelled through IDB). Bank appraisal of Chixoy
is in progress, with Board presentation tentatively planned for early FY78.
Improvement of Institutional Arrangements
39.       The Government recognizes that the present division of the sector
between EEG and INDE has been one of the principal reasons for the financial
weakness of INDE. Although steps were taken after the Government obtained
control of EEG in 1972 to improve INDE's situation, through an arrangement
whereby Government dividends from EEG were passed on to INDE, the transfers
involved have been inadequate to meet INDE's needs. Moreover, EEG's natural
concern for serving the needs of its concession area complicates the sect l-al
planning process. The Government, therefore, in order to lay the groundwork
for a strenghtening of the institutional framework in which the power
development program is to be carried out, established a Sector Reorganization
Commission in January 1976. The Commission was to study alternatives for the
future organization of the sector, was to propose broad policies in the areas
of tariffs and the strengthening of INDE, and was to propose recommendations
for action to the Cabinet-level National Economic Council. The Commission
has completed its report and presented it to the Council for review. The
Government intends to decide on a specific reorganization scheme by June 30,
1977, and to complete the sector reorganization by the end of 1979.
Prior Bank Projects
4o.       The Bank has made two loans for the power sector in Guatemala.
Loan 487-GU of US$15 million equivalent,signed in March 1967, assisted TNDE
in financing the construction of the 60MW Juriun-Marinala hydroelectr.c
project and associated facilities, transmission lines, instiallation of
12.7MW gas turbine, and some diesel umnits. The project was completed clise
to the original schedule; actual construction costs were 12 percent higher
than the estimates prepared at the time the project was appraised. The



investment in Jurun-Marinala compared with an equivalent thermal plant was
found, according to the appraisal report, to be the most economic alternative
at discount rates of 10 percent or less; however, due mainly to the subsequent
very large increases in fuel prices, it will be the most economic alternative
even at discount rates higher than 10 percent.
41.       The second power loan, 545-GU of US$7 million equivalent,signed
in June 1968, financed the foreign exchange component of a 33MW steam unit,
and site investigations, pre-investment studies and design of the first stage
of the Atitlan hydroelectric project. The original Guacalate site for the
unit was ruined by a flood in September 1969, after works had already started.
The flood revealed that the proposed site lay in an ancient river bed,
and works had to be restarted at a new site (Escuintla), involving
substantially greater civil works. This incident was the main factor
causing a 22-month delay in completion of the unit and a 60 percent
cost overrun. Given the delays in preparing hydroelectric projects that had
occurred, the 33MW steam unit was probably the best system addition that
could be made at the time. Moreover, the investment is expected to yield
a satisfactory economic return to Guatemala, despite the difficulties it
experienced, as its benefits have been greatly enhanced as a result of
delays which have occurred in the construction of additional capacity to
keep up with system load growth. INDE has not achieved the financial rates
of return contained in the tariff covenants under the two loans. The poor
financial performance has its roots in INDE's weak position vis-a-vis EEG,
as discussed above.   The Bank appraised a power project   in 1972, but
this project did not go forward as a result of a disagreement between the
Bank and the Government over a proposed bid award for two thermal generating
units, the main components of the proj.ect. It has thus been almost nine
years since the Bank's last loan for electric power in Guatemala.
42.       A project performance audit report prepared by the Operations
hvaluation Department on the First and Second Power Projects was distributed
to the Executive Directors on February 14, 1975. The main conclusions of
this report were that, although the Bank had played a large part in the
expansion of Guatemala's power supply and in helping to establish INDE as "the
major institution" in the power sector, it could have contributed more tothe
solution of the two most serious problems in the sector -- the poor financial
performance arising mainly from the unsatisfactory arrangements between INDE
and EEG, and the lack of development of Guatemala's hydroelectric resources.
Agreements reached with the Government and INDE in connection with tne
proposed loan are designed to tackle both of these problems.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Aguacapa Power Project of Instituto
Nacional de Electrificacion" (INDE) (No. 1361b-GU, dated March 31, 1977)
is being distributed separately. The main features of the loan are summa-
rized in Annex III. The project was prepared by INDE with the assistance of
consultants, and appraised in March-April 1976. Negotiations were held in
Washington on January 26-28, 1977. INDE was represented by Mr. Rene Nuyens,
General Manager; the principal Government representative was Mr. A. Boesche,
Under Secretary of the Planning Council.
Project Description
44.       The project comprises the construction of:   (1) a dam in the
Aguacapa river and a reservoir of 300,000m3 for daily regulation; (2) a
12km power tunnel; (3) a 3.7km steel penstock; (4) a power station with
three 30MW generating units; (5) step-up transformer facilities at the
power plant; (6) a switching station; and (7) 23km of transmission line
at 230kV. In addition, the project includes about 36 man-months of
consultants' services. This project constitutes 25 percent of the sector
investment program for 1977-79, the disbursement period of the proposed
loan.
Project Cost
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$100.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$59.5 million. Interest on loans
during construction would add US$11.2 million, bringing total foreign
financing requirements to US$70.7 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$55.0
million would cover 92 percent of the foreign exchange component (excluding
interest during construction). The Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI) would provide two loans for the project totalling US$8.8
million, while the Venezuelan Investment Fund would provide loans totalling
US$30.0 million during 1977-79 (from the proceeds of the Central American oil
facility) to help cover local currency costs. The remaining US$17.4 million
would be financed by net internal cash generation and Government contributions.
Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent for civil works and
5 percent for equipment and materials. Base costs have been estimated at prices
of June 1976, to which has been added an allowance for price increases of 9 and
13 percent per annum for foreign and local costs, respectively, in the second
half of 1976, and 8 and 12 percent per annum for foreign and local costs from
1977-79. Details of project costs and of the financing plan are presented in
Annex III.



- 16 -
The Borrower
46.       INDE is an autonomous agency of the Guatemalan Government.
While INDE's charter gives it full authority to set rates, in practice
its rates to EEG are negotiated between the two companies, and these
rates together with all other INDE rates are subject to Government
approval.
47.        INDE's Board of Directors is composed of five directors and
three alternates, all appointed by the President of Guatemala. Management
is entrusted to a General Manager and two Sub-Managers, one responsible for
technical operations, the other for administrative and financial matters.
INDE is short of specialized and experienced professionals, particularly at
mid-management level. Also the number of operational employees is high
(1,560) in relation to the number of customers served. Intensive
construction activity on force account has caused INDE to increase its
temporary unskilled staff substantially from 800 in 1975 to 3,580 by mid-
1976. With the completion of civil works on steam plants by mid-1977, and
the initiation of work by contractors on Aguacapa and Chixoy in 1977, INDE
should be in a position to phase out completely construction on force account
of major works. Also INDE needs to develop its capacity to plan system
expansion to enable it to assume a function which up to now has been handled
by outside consultants, and it needs to strengthen its financial planning
staff and increase the mechanization of accounting functions.
48.       INDE's management is aware of the areas requiring improvement but
has been reluctant to initiate major reforms pending the Government's decision
on sector reorganization. There are, however, some improvements which could
be made immediately, while others could be started after sector reorganization
begins in mid-1977. To this end, INDE has agreed to carry out the following
measures before May 31, 1977: (a) strengthen the financial unit of its
planning group by hiring one or two experienced professionals; (b) strengthen
the personnel unit by hiring an experienced specialist who would prepare a
program to improve personnel policies and practices; and (c) simplify and
improve the handling and control of correspondence and filing. It should also
be feasible to plan major organizational reforms in the next few months, even
if these may require some adjustments after the final sector organization is
defined. Consequently, INDE agreed on a schedule that would enable it by
June 30, 1978, to: (a) reorganize its planning group into a department,
incorporating the technical team trained by the master plan group; (b) reorganize
the financial group into a department headed by an experienced financial manager
who would implement a program for effective financial planning and improvement of
all accounting functions; and (c) finalize planning for a new main office
building (the existing facilities are inadequate) (Section 4.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement). To assist INDE in carrying out the above programs, particularly
personnel upgrading and accounting improvements, forty man-months of consultant
services would be provided under the loan. The average cost of these consulting
services, assuming that they will be recruited from abroad, is estimated to be
about US$4,750 per man-month.



- 17 -
Financial Position and Future Earnings of INDE and the Sector 1/
49.       The power sector's financial performance through 1973 was
satisfactory. In the period 1971-73 it achieved an average rate of
return of 9.7 percent on historically-valued assets, a high debt-service
coverage ratio (4:3) and a satisfactory contribution to its modest
investment program (38 percent). The satisfactory consolidated sector
performance resulted from the high earnings achieved by EEG but as
discussed in Part III above, INDE was never able to charge a sufficiently
high bulk tariff to EEG to share adequately in sector revenues. The
sector's financial performance deteriorated in 1974-75 as tariff increases
authorized in those years were insufficient to offset substantial increases
in fuel costs. The situation improved in 1976, after an additional tariff
increase which enabled the sector to achieve an estimated 7.2 percent return
on historically valued assets, and subject to the implementation of actions
discussed below, should improve further during the period of disbursement of
the proposed loan (1977-79).
50.       The power sector's capital investment program during 1977-79
is expected to total approximately US$380 million (including interest
during construction). Of this amount, over 95 percent represents
investments to be made by INDE. Given the magnitude of the INDE program
and the heavy concentration of investment expenditures in the next few
years, the Government recognizes the importance of timely action to imDrove
the financial arrangements between INDE and EEG, which is a major objective
of the proposed sector reorganization. It recognizes as well the importance
of mobilizing an adequate amount of consumer-based resources for the
program to complement the necessarily large amount of external borrowing, but
at the same time, takes the position that any proposed tariff
action should take into account the lumpy nature of the sector investment
program.
51.       Accordingly, the Government intends to base its power pricing policy
on the long-term costs of production and financing needs of the sector and
proposes to cover through equity contributions and loans, the short-term
financing shortfalls attributable to the large investment program needed to
meet the growth in energy demand and alleviate dependence on imported fuel. In
terms of the financing plan for the 1977-79 sector expansion program, this means
that the Government proposes to finance about US$278 million, or 74 percent,
from external borrowing (of which US$166 million has either already been committed
in approved loans or is being negotiated for the Aguacapa project), about US$57
million equivalent, or 15 percent, from net internal cash generation, and the
balance of $45 million from Government equity contributions. This tariff policy
and financing plan are reflected in a series of agreed financial conditions which,
since they have been developed from the standpoint of the requirements of the
sector as a whole, would apply to the new sectoral entity if the Government
decides to merge EEG and INDE.
1/ The financial analysis contained in these paragraphs assumes a Bank interest
rate on the Aguacapa loan of 8.5 percent per annum. The actual Bank rate to
be charged (8.2 percent per annum) will result in a marginal improvement in
INDE's financial position from that shown.



- 18 -
52.       In the absence of a proper valuation of the sector's assets, it is
proposed that contribution to investment be used for the time being as the main
criterion to determine the adequacy of its revenues. It was agreed that retail
tariffs of EEG and INDE will be set at levels sufficient to finance from net
internal resources an average of 15 percent of their consolidated construction
expenditures in 1977-79; and that after completion of the Aguacapa project,
tariffs should be sufficient to earn a rate of return of at least 9 percent
6n their respective revalued net fixed assets in operation (Sections 3.02
and 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Under these covenants, it is projected that an acceptable debt service
coverage will be obtained (averaging 1.38 times in 1977-79). The sector's
debt equity ratio is expected to rise from 35/65 in 1976 to 59/41 in 1981
and decline thereafter. Agreement has been reached with the Government and
INDE to carry out a review of the power sector's asset value, under terms of
reference and on a timetable agreed with the Bank (Sections 3.01, 3.02 and
3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
53.       To achieve the proposed 15 percent minimum contribution to
expansion, the retail tariffs of EEG and INDE will need to be raised
in 1977 so that they would yield additional revenues totalling US$25.4
million during 1977-79, and in addition, any increases in fuel prices would
need to be passed on to consumers. Agreement has been reached that fuel
price increases will be passed on (Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement);
the necessary retail tariff increase would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01(b) thereof). In addition, it has been
agreed that retail tariffs of the sector will not be lowered during the
construction period of the project (Section 3.11 of the Guarantee Agreement).
In order to provide the basis for the implementation of longer-term tariff
policy, it is necessary that a comprehensive tariff study be conducted which
will recommend new tariff levels and structures to all final consumers. The
Government has agreed on a timetable for execution of the tariff study (Section
3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement). In addition, as the sector reorganization
has not yet been implemented and in order to assure that the bulk of sector
revenues are passed on to INDE, the Government has agreed that INDE's tariffs
to EEG would be adjusted annually at levels sufficient to channel to INDE any
funds generated by EEG in excess of the latter's requirements for operations,
debt service, working capital and construction, and that the Government will
reinvest in equity capital of the Borrower all its cash dividends from EEG
(Sections 3.05 and 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement and 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement).
54. Excessive overdue accounts receivable from public agencies (especially
municipal entities) have represented a financial burden to both EEG and INDE.
This situation should improve as a result of a recent judgement obtained by
EEG against the Guatemala City water company, which owes it more than two
years'consumption. The Government has agreed to take all necessary measures
to reduce EEG and INDE's accounts receivable from public agencies to a maximum
of 60 daystconsumption by the end of 1977 (Section 3.09 of the Guarantee
Agreement and 5.07 of the Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
55.       To ensure adherence to the proposed capital investment and financing
plans, agreement has been reached with the Government and INDE that Bank
concurrence will be obtained during construction of Aguacapa before allowing:
(a) EEG to increase its construction expenditure beyond US$14.1 million durinj
execution of the Aguacapa project (Section 3.08(b) of the Guarantee Agreement)
(b) INDE to begin any new project not included in the program involving an
expenditure in excess of US$1 million prior to the completion of the Aguacapa
project (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement); and (c) INDE to contract any
long-term debt, unless its net revenues are at least 1.5 times the maximum
debt-service requirement for any future fiscal year (Section 5.09 of the Loan
Agreement). As in previous loan agreements, agreement has been reached that
INDE would appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and send to
the Bank the audited financial statements and auditors' report within four
months from the end of the fiscal year, each year for the duration of the loan
(Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
56.        INDE has contracted Electrowatt (Switzerland) to assist in
design, procurement and construction supervision of project works.
INDE expects to execute the project by contracting all major works, as
well as the supply and installation of equipment and materials. The
project is expected to be in operation by June 30, 1979.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement of equipment, materials, and construction services
ior the project to be financed by the Bank is being conducted under
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guide-
lines for procurement. Because of the urgency of the project, INDE
initiated procurement soon after project appraisal by the Bank. ICB
for all major contracts was conducted in May/June 1976 and bids were
received from suppliers in six Bank member countries. Bid evaluations
have been completed; the Bank has reviewed them and concurred with INDE's
award recommendations on three of the four contracts that would be
financed with the proposed loan. INDE has issued letters of intent to
enter into a contract with the successful bidders on the three contracts
(these letters condition signing of contracts on Bank approval of the
proposed loan). Award of the fourth and largest contract (civil works)
was complicated by an INDE proposal to divide the award (as permitted by
the bidding documents) between the two contractors who presented bids for
the complete works. INDE eventually decided, with the Bank's concurrence,
to retender the civil works contract. Bids on this contract were opened in
March 1977 and INDE's recommendation for contract award is expected in May 19
58.       Disbursements would be made for the percentages of costs shown
below:
(a) 49 percent of total expenditures for civil works
(representing the estimated foreign cost component);
(b) 100 percent of the foreign cost of imported
equipment and materials, including installation,
and of erection of facilities; and



- 20 -
(c) 100 percent of the foreign cost of consultants'
services.
Environmental Effects
59.       The project should not have any adverse impact on the environment.
The area to be flooded by the reservoir is very small (about 30,000m2) and
uninhabited. No archaelogical sites will be disturbed and no animal species
will be endangered in the reach of the river (about 22km) that will dry up
as a result of its permanent diversion.
Project Risks
60.       Geophysicists who have studied the effects of the major Guatemalan
earthquake of February 19T6 are in agreement that its cause appears to have
been the movement of lithospheric plates producing a massive rupture along
the Guatemalan Motagua fault (See map attached as Annex V). The Aguacapa
site is located about 65km south of this fault line. Geologic investigations
at the project site have not disclosed any adverse effects from the quake.
However, to reduce the risks of seismic activity, the project has been designed
to withstand seismic effects of the magnitude recorded during the recent quake.
Economic Justification
61.       This project is the least-cost solution for expanding Guatemala's
generating capacity, as determined after comparing various sequences of
conventional thermal, geothermal and hydroelectric plants and various
possible designs and stages for the Aguacapa project. The return on
investment is estimated by comparing the stream of costs associated with the
projectthrough its assumed life of 40 years and those of the related sub-
transmission and distribution system investments (not part of the project),
with the estimated benefits measured by the forecast revenues from sale of
electricity at the agreed 1977 tariff level and the savings of fuel. The rate
of return under these assumptions will be 14.9 percent. A sensitivity analysis
shows that this returnwouldbe reduced to 13.0 percent if investment cost were
assumed to increase by 10 percent and to 12.7 percent if energy sales were 10
percent lower.
62.       These rates of return indicate that electricity prices will, on
average, be higher than incremental costs for the system. The actual economic
rate of return probably will be higher than the above calculations would indicate,
as the electricity rates used as the measure of benefits probably do not fully
reflect the indirect benefits to industry, commerce and other large consumers
whose production and employment depend on a reliable electricity supply. In
order to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facilities, and unnecessary
investment, assurances have been obtained from Government that it will take all
actions necessary to bring about the economic operation of all generating and
transmission facilities in the interconnected system and that expansion of
these facilities will be based on economically justifiable programs (Section 3.08
(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between Instituto Nacional de
Electrificacion and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Guatemala and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and the text of the Resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements conform to the
normal pattern of loans for power projects and their more important
features have been included in Part IV of this report. There are
three special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (i)
the execution by the Government, INDE and EEG of a Subsidiary Contract
satisfactory to the Bank, the specific purpose of which is to ensure
that EEG, not a party to the agreements with the Bank, will take all
necessary action as and when required; (ii) that the agreed 1977 increase
in retail power rates has taken place; and (iii) that the Venezuelan
Investment Fund (or other source satisfactory to the Bank) has approved a
loan of at least US$17.0 million equivalent to help meet the project's 1977
financial requirements.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 5, 1977






ffyEg1r 4 P'o
TABLE 3A
!UATEMALA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND ARFEA (THOU Xlt21              --_---_
______-______-_                               GUATEMALA                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      108.9                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      25.0                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE         ODMINICAN REp PERU   WAtA RICA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  220.0- 350.0*       550.0*            380.0        520.0    560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLIONI          3.9       5.4*      6.3 *             4.1       13.3        1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     36.0      49.0      58.0              83.0       10.0       34.0
PER 0S. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     17t..O   216.0     234.0             174.0       45.0       93.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE IWTHOU, AVI       49.6      45.1      42.8              47.3       42.9       41.1
CRUDE OEATH RATE (/THOU,AVI        21.9      16.8      13.7              13.4       14.7        8.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)      91.9      87.1      79.6             103.0 /a    65.1 4    62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI     44.2      51.1      54.1              52.2       58.0       66.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4       3.1       3.0               3.5        2.9        3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                               3.4       3.2       3.2               2.9/b      2.8        3.3
URBAN                               3.8 A4    3.2      3.2               5.6        4.7&       5.24
URBAN POPLLAT ION I X OF TOTAL I     33.6 /a   33.8      33.8              40.0       52.5       36.5
AGE STRUCTUPE (PERCENT)
o TO 14 YEARS                     45.5     45.4      45.1              47.5       45.0 /     47.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                     51.       51.7      52.0              49.4       51.9 7;    49.3
65 YeARS ANe OVER                   2.7 a     2.9       2.9               3.1        3.1 4     3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.94     0.9       0.9               1.0        0.9/4      1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIO             1.8 4    1.64     1.7/a             1.94      1.5   ,     1.6 4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCFPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         *-      41.3      96.2              36.8         ..      165.0
USEPS IT OF MARRIED WOMENI           ..        ..       4.4
E MPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       1300.0 a   1600.0   1800.0            1100.0     4300.0      540.0
LABOP FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Y1       65.0     61.0      57.0 4           55.5       45.0       46.3 3
UNFMPLOYED IS OF LABOP FORCEI          ..        ..        ..              14.0 /d     5.0        5.1
INCOME ODITRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATF INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5t DF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..              26.3 /        .
HIGHEST ?0% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..              54.3 /3
LOWEST  20r OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..               4.3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHrOLDS           ..        ..        ..              12.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
r OWNED BY TOP 10S OF OWNEfRS        76.6 /a     *-        *               62.7
Y OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 CWNERS        0.57       ..        ..               1.8
HCALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PEF PHYSICIAN               ..        ..    4573.0 /d         2100.0     1920.0     1620.0
PCPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..        ..    15.0              3920.0     3200.0     1680.0
POPULA'ION PER HOSPITAL eED            ..     470.0        *-             350.0      470.0      250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES If OF REOUIREMENTSI       86.0      97.0      97.0             91.0       98.0      110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)            53.0      59.3      59.0  ,           50.0       62.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       1B.0 4   19.0        ..              29.0       24.0       35.0
DEATH RA-E (/THOUI AGES 1-4          29.0      24.4      25.9 4           17.0         ..        4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED FNPOLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     49.0      59.0      64.0 4          107.0      107.0      108.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    8.0      11.0       8.0 4           19.0       35.0       28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIOED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0      12.0      12.0              12.0       12.0       11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONOARY)                   19.0      15.0 k    16.0               5.0       19.01_    10.0
ADlILT LITERACY RATE (SI             38.0,      ..      47.0              50.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PEP ROOM (URBAN)              1.9 L      ..        ..                ..         ..        1.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Y)                    89. a
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(S OF ALL DWELLINGS)               22.0 /a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY 1T)                  4.0 A.
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       54.0     111.0        ..              40.0      136.0       72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)         7.0       8.0       9.04             10.0      1.0        23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         72.0     146.0     18hIL /0          227.0      415.0       E64 C /i
NFWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)             1.0       1.5       1.2               1.0        3.7         6.4
--- - - - -- - - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - --- - -- - -  - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ - -- - - - - - - - -- - -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- -- -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



Paeg 2 of I4 page.
eMM
tuIe.. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to anY Year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee            1968 and 1970, aS for BNit leAnt Zstimate betwee
1973 an     175.
*  Revisod official population figre      base   no 1973 6oau       COSW per oapite sheen is based on these latest populAtion figures end danlaoted on
1976 World Bmks Atlas hewi..    MUP per capita before popoultion revisions wa US38 220.0 for 1960; 038 380,0 for 1970 end 03           650.0 for 1975.
me  xl ret. Of natural increse,   net coparable with IERO population growth rate doe to differet          cOsus beasu.
en Costa Rioe bee been selected     e en objetive country for Onatealsa becense it has attained e higher level of econ             miced segiel detelopuent,
while heving ae siilar rscource base, eVort structure and degree of openees In Its eos'.              Both countries have   --II popuhticns, ad both
belong t. toe Central America Conaen Market.
OUJUXAJA       1960   /A    1961.;   A    1950-6h1     La  1962;     &d   1961-631     /.  Prier to 1965;      af  Inside onlY.
1970    /a    1961-701     /b   Including eveIng    cheole;      ac  Ratio Ml population under    15 end 65 and over to total lahos force..
MT? RICET RST1RATI.       /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 6$ end over to employed aged 15 years and over;           A    kExludes un-
esployedi     4c  Ae percetage of employant;         A    1971;     a.  1 969-71 avernge;     a1  Tnci,si
eveing ecihoele       ZS  1972;     fl lucludirng midvifer-y 7tCrsonnl;l Li 1974
WOKNIQC*   REP.     1970    /a   Coons figure;       b   Da. to seigration, population growth ret. is laser than the rate of natre1 increase;             ac   Asti.
of population under 1$ and 65 end over to total labor force;          a   Santa D.ngn only;        /a   Santa llcingm nuBn.
PERu                190     IA     mIudee Indian Jungle population;        b  1961-70;      ac  Ratio of PoPulation uer 15 end 65 and oVer to total labor
force;      d  Urban only;       .  Inldn       vening echolol.
CARSTA RaCA         1970    /a   1963-70;     Ab  Ratio of population under 15 and 6$ end oer to total labor force; P.L 1967; /i 1974.
R6, Pebroary 11,1977
DEU.ITI7ONIS OF 1OCIAL IDOICATORS
Land Ares (tben he23                                                                   Populatton sae nursitx person      Population divided by oseber of practicing
Totl-I   Ttsl surface cr00 conprielig lsod area and folond uet.ee.                        -I- sod finle graduate n-ree, "troined' or ceertified          nurse, end
Agric. -Moot recen..t estinate of ogicultursI area used tooporarily or                    comiliory personnel with training or omperiec..
Peem-antnly for crops, pastures, -arikec & kitchen gerdon      or to lie             poPulation per hoapitol bed - POPulation divided by meeer of hoepital bade
fellow,                                                                                avilable to public and private geserol and opciclised hospital and
rehabilitation centers;    ocludee nuring home      sod cetablioboenta for
CNP car cc.Pita (uS$) - GNP per cep inan .tioctee ct curost market prtico,                cuocodici nod prevention coca.
.calculted by -eocovn -      ion- tohod cc World nook Atlae (1973-75 basic);         Per cc Pita coepi, cf caloriso   M  of reouirnseta) - Canpucod Em- energy
1960, 1975 and 1975 dccc.                                                              oquIvaetr of net fond supplies avcilcbie is coutry per capita per day;
P-P.I.tion and vit.1  t.tj,tit.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~vailable oupplise conprias donestic production, iciporto less exports,
Population enid vis     tcoioand changes to stock; set Supplies exoclude aninal feed, seeds, qouenitics
Poucio(i-yr. nillion) - Ac of July firat:     if not available,                  used in food proea-ing and boseeo in diotribution; requiroenets wer
aevarge of two end-year noti 1i960a IA, 1970 and 1975 data.                            ectincted bly FAO bused on pbyiolagicol need. for ner-a        activity and
P.P,I.ti- da..ir, - Bar  quara                                     h..~~~~balth cnMaidrius eoviromotc1 tonp-rture, body weights, ag.eand sen
Pouaind t_e.y - opa  squarel,  Mid-yecr population per equaro kilo-              distributios   of population, and allowing li' for w..te 01 household level.
ceter flit h..oc)       ftta      rs
Population denciry - par squ-rs be of coric. land - C=opoted ae above for              Per capita oupply of Protein (cron      per days - Protein content of per
ogriculcur-l land only.                                                                 ccpitc net -opply of food par day; -ct suPply of food ie defioed cc
Vital  -ti.li..                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~bovs, r-quiromots for all coutries secablihbd by CsDA Economic
vicol scoctocice                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Rs...rch Services provids for a  initoun slmeanos  f 60 groo  of
Crude birch rote per thanoand. avoroc      - Annual live births per thousan d             total protein Per day, cod 20 giro     of animal and pulse proteiso.f
of uid-year populotton, too year erltheetin       .eaoacding In 1960 and               which ii grom    should be animal protein; the., atandordo ore lous
1970, and fivo-yoorov-rg.saoding in 1975 for coot recent estimate,                      than those of 75 grous of total Protein and 23 gram       of cobol protein
Crude death rate per tho-sed, evpc- Acc-            deothe per thousand of mid-           -s an vevrge for the word, propoaed by FAO to the Third World Food
-ear_population. cs--Yccrr Itiooctic av-rges sodioc is 1960 and 1970 sod               S.rvy.
fiv-you11r ovrage ending Is 1975 for p00t recent estimate.                           Per capito proteis onoply frun anima      cod polas - Protein supply of fn
Info-   eror       caco f/thou) - Annua   deaths of iofasts under one yeor                derivedPfo     snl     anfooc       sg-dprdy
oif.-Pt ago po  hnatdho birth     s.r.                                                Dmoth tote f/thou) aces 1-4 - Annua      deaths par thousand in age group
Lif  p0cc cec  atbirh Ins)- A-erag  nunhor of yooro of life mate-                1-4 yeors, to children in this age group; saggertedasn indinoror of
tog an birth.  -sooly fiv-y-c      -orogso ending in 1960, 1970 and                    malntrition.
Cr00   rpeonodot1ion-t rt-uAnoroge coobr of livo d-ughtere o wuan will                  Ed-ntion
boonrin her   ..rn. n2cod-otive psriod if she.     neice       precept age-          Adjusted   nrlle      troio - primary school - Eproilmest of .1l ages 
opeift forltuitY vacc, uoualy ftiv-y-o          cosragos ending is 1960,               Parco..tgog  of primary school-age population, includes     hildess aged
i970 and 1975 for doocloping coutries.                                                 A-li years but adjusted for different l1ngths of primary edocatiun;
PPopIotion onowth reco (7.) - tmcc1 - Cnpaund canne       growth p0tcc of mid-            for countries with uivr       al .d.otion, esrollmet nay enced lOOt
year populaion for 1950-A0, 196 0-70 cod 1970-75.                                       stone some pupilo are below or above the official arhool egs.
Ponulaci.s or_th raco (7.) - orbac - Cnputed like growth race of total                 Adjusted esrol1aoet ratio - secondary achool - Cooputed as chore;
Popu1otiop; d ifforont dofinicioso of orhoc croo naY afiet coopers-                    aecondary ed-ction require      ct Ieact four Year    of approvd primary
hit   of dtc among couscrioc.                                                         inarr-tios, provides general, vonetionel or teac.her traictog
ilrbo  population (7   ftnl         ai     f urban to torel population,                   tonstruction  for pupils of 12 to 17 Year    of ago; corropondepce,
differet definitiono of urhoo er-c maY        ffert nomp-rbility of dote                nouraca ore ge...relly ...nluded.
on ng  outriseP                                                                    Years of achoo1in    provided ffirot ssd s.ecod levels) - Total Yeor       of
Ana...ctre(eret) - Children (i-li Y',o); working-ago      (15-64 years),         schooling;ct secondary level, vonctionl macportion uy be par-
and retired (Al yoarro and over) asP.t oonctages of mid-year population.                tIolly or coplecely anclded.
Ant depedenn'y ratio - .Retic of popniotion under 15 and65 end eve      tc           Voctina     erollooct ft of asodr)- Vocational isatitotions
toeoags15 chroog    64.                                                         toolude tenhoicol, industrial or other program      which operate
Ec-oic depednc        rato     Pli   of PoPulation ondar 15 cod 65 asd ovr                idepoatl        ra   departtsts of ascondary iootiwtitoo.
tocs hrforco in Rgs gru      f  56    yo                                      Adul   literocy rate It   - Literate adulto fsblc to read sod writs)a
Paniy pltnio-accptor  (noulotve.   thou) - CIceultiv- maker of                  prcen.tage of total edult population aged 15 years and over.
.ccoptoro of binth-noctrol devices under o..opic.. of netiona1 family
P,nning Ptogo      clone inception.                                                  H.- i.g
Family PI1.. m"   -u"a to        uried wnn         Pecoantagee of married              Persona, per roo   (orbes) - Average sombr of persoon per room in
uno  of chid-heoartng age (15-44 yearo) who -s birth-control devices                 onnopied n    etimldwellicgo in arbas earso; dwellings sonIda
to oIl narriod wonen ic sno age grooP.                                                 no--Peoanet etruct,ares and       -.ccpisd parts.
E.P1,y-t                                                         0~~~    ~~         ~        ~   ~~~~~~~~~ccupid dPlioswihutsod wate.r it) - Occupied ceveotiomol
Ttaplolabot                                                                              dws ,..d  -Eo-tly..i.pt_,llinge t  rbsadrural cress wihout maid. or outside piped
lob1  aboricroc(thoncod  - icnomiullyactiv  perone,including             wator facilities o    percen.tage of all -ncpiad dwellings.
srnd forc.o ond uepluyed hot ..ocludig hou-eios          * cdents. * tc.;            A..... to electricity ft of all d-olIiue)-Coteino              dwlng
dcfintiun  in  oriou  neoteis   ornot comparable.                             with cle-tricity in living quarters as percent of tete1 dwellings is
Labor fore   to agiutue1          - Ag ricul tura  labor force  (is f.rming,             urban aod trorl aroas.
focty  hot iog cod fiuhiog) as pernectage of total lebor foros.                 RuroI dwelimoo    cosented to electricity Ct) - Computed as abovs for
Uooloye     f. f lahor force)      U- oployed ore   --ualy defined as                     ura   dwellings only.
p      atoowh rsblc  cod willing to nea s job, ot of    Job n
given day, rnited oti of a        h  ad   :enhig-wor    for a specified              Consooption
olimn  ero   ec o.coeding 00  s,my. sot be uop-rrto hetwee                   Radio rece.ivers (pet thou non) - All typea of ro-ivers for radio broad-
cntiodoto differenc definitln      ofosupoed and enrsof                        cat    :ognral public per thonecod of pepulation; eocluds
data  e.., opinnontoftne eotitico   sple auresye.,uousr                      unlicese    reCeivers i   commtris and isnea P     when regiatration of
usmeployn..o  inourenno,                                                               radio octo was is effect, data for recen.t yeare nay sot b e coparble
I-  di.trib.ti.. -  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    otcsmot cutriea abolished lionoing.
Incoa dstriutin -Paro...c-;e of private Jone-    fboth is cash and               Passenge   nap  (pr t'hou eon) -      .Pasmgsr car  cpri.e   macor cr
kind) rcccivsd by richeet 5t. richest 207., poor-t 207., sod poores                     eacting lsee thas eight persona, onclodma onbqlc...... hears.es ad
h0t of housoho1do.                                                                     military vehicle..
Di.trib~~~~~~~tiou of                                           E~~~~~~lentricicY fkwh/ypr setcp) - Annual c-e,aptios of indutrie1, cn
isrh io oflaud  --rhip -Porneotagee     of land ownd by wealthiest              neno,pubic and private e..otricity in kilowatt boors per o.pita;
lOt cod poorest 107. of lend   -er.ops.. gnrally basa.d on produotion data, without all1wence for loce                                                        t
grida but alloing for inporte      n   xot     of  Ieletritity.
Health ond NJutritiono                                                                 Pawriri    fAa/v  Per   ap)-    er  apta   ona cpwetontrktgrm
Pouainprpyiio-ppultindiied by mae                           ofpatiigtimeted from dotic                            production pl usnec L.porte of newprint.
pyiin qulified from    odcascoo-        t uniersty lave.I



GULTMPIA                                                           rg3
~~~       Ea~~~~~~~~   ~    -t           1960-   197  -   1975 -            1976 -     n      0
3L?IFAL A~COOfl                  ME_
Rat"           v!MrAnnual Growth Pates          AA Percent of GMr
Gross Dogtle Ptodut             10391M3           T3     R'%      .     39048.             5.6       T   L   6        7.0     981     103.1   101.7
Gan      iaTrm      fT-d                               6 -_e                                         *      2.6       34.3
iapost (cine. 318)               178.3   3o6;7     399.7      1458.5    553.3   7i5.14     5.5     5.14    14.7       5.1     16.7     18.5  1.414.6
&wta         ( inort C                    1J1 a.0              bDk8     19.a      15       5.4     15       71t.4             14.       62    11.
Resource Gap                      2142    ff7         6         567     'iM    -W;        44         .                                    3.*
Consixrtion bpenituree           973.14  1535.7   1916.7      2068.6   2672.8  3771.8      14.6    14.5      7.9      6.3     91.2     83.5    91.2
Imveataemt      (imcl. stocks)   117.14  228.2     389.5      14614.2   632.8   887.3      8.3    11.3     19.2       7.5     11.0     18.7   11.0
Doestic Savings                   93.2   239.9     322.8      1407.5    57.1.3  788.5      8.6     6.1      26.2      6.3      8.8     16.5     8.8
National Saving:                 104.5   221.1      3140.8    1477.1    586.1   831.9      8.2     9.0     140.0     14.6      9.8     19.3     9.8
MERCHANIDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
Imports
Com.awr Goods                    51.7    79.7     184.       2314.5   352.5   607.8       8.8    18.2     27.14    12.7     37.5      214.0  22.1
Pstwolaim and Lubrictant        13.9     14s.9    l10.5      135.0    167.3   288.1     114.8   149.3     22.2      8.8     10.1      13.8    9.3
Intermediate Goods              145.2   108.3     323.9      1.1.9    701.3 11499.6     14s.0    214.5    29.6     15.2     32.8     142.8  148.2
of which oosat-rootism  Mat.  12.3     16.8     142.1      107.3    115.0   220.0       8.5    20.2    1514.9     8.3       8.9     11.0    7.1
capitaa Goods.70                         5.       181.5      189.7    321.9   633.1 1        .5  6.5       14.5    ".43     19.6      19.14  20.14
Primary Prodctset               106.8   169.5     4141.9     561.0    917.14  1377.3      9.9    21.1     27.0     10.5      91.9     7l.1   61.8
of whioha  lrArals              1.5    14.6       9.5       10.5     87.1   140O.3    13.1     15.6     10.5     33.14     1.3       1.3    6.3
MJisnfactured Goods                        ~     ~     ~     2~~3:             A:             ~         ~         ~         ~         2: 
Total March. Exports (fob)     3i 2    2 r7 -    617-.2      78 9. 6  1326-.7  2229.14                   - T   7   !       100.0    100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border' Traae        2.0    11.0      78.0       81.9    1143.2   288.0     27.7    50.0      5.0      15.0      1.7
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Averag-e 1 6-69 - 100"
Export Price Index             1.7     10;7.      175.1      22.      271.0   375.14     3.8    10.14     15.8      7.1
Import Price Index              85.3   109.8      230.1      21414.9  323.3   21414.9    6.8    15.9       6.14     7.0
Terms of Trade Index           118.0    97.5       76.1       82.8     83.8    83.5     -2.9     -14.8     8.8      0.1
Exports Volume Index            51.0   119.5      1614.0     170.5    213.8   261.1      8.1      6.5     14.0     14.8
VALUJE AIDDED BY SECTOR          Annual Data at 1967 - 69 Prices and Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth Rates      As percent of Total
(At factor cost)
Agriculture & Mining           320.0   14214.1    5614.9     610.1    8145.0  1078.14    3.8      5.9      8.0      6.5     30.7     25.8    214.14
Indlustry                      163.5   3141.1    14141.6     503.0    662.1   972.8      6.8     5.3     15.8       7.6     15.7     21.3   22.0
Service                        560.14  886.5    1166.9      12147.2  16514.5  2375.2     5.0     5.7     10.0       7.14    53.6     52.9   53.6
TotaLl                        TM"     !MT-T     MiT         Tw           "    =T7 7T77                                     IN".  Y   T5"
HMLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                   As Percent of GDP
(Cet-ralGovernment)
Current Receipts                88.9   152.7      216.0      223.8    .J3.-9  1468.2     6.1     2.3       3.6      8.5      8.5      8.9   IU.
curret Expenditures             75.3   138.14    176.9       192.2    283.8   388.6      5.8     1.6       8.6      8.1      7.2      7.8    8.3
M e-tary Saings  M7  -TT  -In        -7n        W7--?M             5.6     6.-9   -         f0.          3      1.1    1.7
Inveaswmt                        26.6   140.14     60.6      212.3     90.5   139.2      5.6      2.7    250.3      9.0      2.5       8.6    3.0
CURRWrEXTFPENfDITURE DETAILS                 Actual       Prelim.   Eat.    Proj.        DETA-IL OR                       19f79Dvl/    gpmm      Pa
As % Total Current ExPend.)196517                                 176     1   0        PBISETRs                             imliosfTta
Education                    22.9'~  9         2&1       2&     2171         I VESTMENT PROGIRAM            (1976prc)          _____
Other socil service.20.7             21.3      18.8     19.1    20.0         Social Sectors                     6014.8            14-3.
Agriculture                            3.1      3.8       5.2      5.8     6.5        Agriculture                          60.5              14.3
Other Economic Services                7.8     8.0        8.2      9.0    10.0        Industry and Mining                  16.3              1.2
Administration and Defense            38.3     35.3     140.5     38.14   35.0         Power                              377.8             26.9
Other                                         10.3        7.2      7f .                 ransport end cominications        268.2             19.1
ToalCuret  xpndtre  T4- TW        O        "       I"            other (Tourism)                     7485.3
Total Current                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Expenditure.  40.        100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-     1965-    1970-   19 75.      FIRANCIlN
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)           1965      1970  ~   157    19 80
Average ICOR                                      2.12     T2.25     lI8.   2.7-0           PUblic Se.ctor Savings          322.5             23.0
Import Elasticity                                1.65      0.66      1.03   1.00           Internal Barwrowlg              g48.8        ~       .
Merginal Domiestic Savings Rate                  0.18      0.18      0.13   0.215          Foreign Project Aid             3g1.1              45,.0
Marginal National Savings Rats                   0.13      0.16      0.16   0.25           Total Financing                '1407.13
aJ Post-quake revision of 1975/79 Development Plan.
LABOR FORCE AND)                             Total Labor Force                               Value Added Per Woker         vdPie&Ec Rates)
OUTPUT PE-JRR&n                      h  sns           Of Total         1   U(3          In U.S.DDIlars      Prent of Average         1903
-j5        1973   A~6O       L        Lro~h Rate         12.9         73         60      1 73      Growth Rate
Agriculture                   773.8      797.9   66.0      56.8           0.7           1411.1    772.8      145.9     149.7           5.0
Industry                      1614.2     272.0   114.0     19.14         14.0           1007.3   1530.1     112.6      98.14          3.2
Service                       2314.7     335.1   20.0      23.8          2.8            2141.3   31439.6    269.14    221.1           2.8
Total                        ]i          Er1ib  i6U.      1i-T           T              W.7      1SWZYs     lff-o     id-rd           1.3
not applicable       - nil or negiigible                                                                                              LAC - rB
not available        -- less then half the                                                                                            February 14., 1977
smiaLlest unit shown



OVr TI
bBl P  =E       Ia    SS      S 
881103 W9ADT0       AL ASOEAEI= AND ISO
(.wnt. to .flUo of V.S. doIIe at ,orrlt prioe J
Aetual             Pa                                                                 A c t u * 1           ltiatad
197V3i          kV            I.2 WMmIB Saaz                                        il~       f      1        1976
MMI=      oM =                                                                                 d      Publi Dbt O7t & Di buC  r d 58.6     94.2   110.1    11.1.8  224.
lcort. (ircl. VS)                   232.5      349.5       791.9      978.6       1590.9    2772.4    Inhreat on Public Debt      3.5      6.4      7.1    12.1     14.4
D orta (incl. nS)                   284.4      336.7      917.5      1120.7       1788.9    3117.0    Rapyenta on Public Debt    13.8     20.6    12.9     11.9    10.5
Reccurce mJmi>e tz-11)              _   v -T    1         -1256 -:lYo. T87                  -3.o       Total Public Debt Sartic.  17.3    27.0     20.0    24.0     24.9
Intinet (n t)                        -5.1       -8.3        -7.6      -10.0          6.6     -20.5   Bdra on Export farning. (S)
'iret Inf_le   t Inonc              -14.3      -29.9      -52.4       -54.3         64.8     -77.3
Wkeres' Rdtt4on.                                 -           4.1        4.3          5.6       7.9     Publi. Debt Serivce        7.4      7.7      3.7     3.0      2.5
CUrr rt Tro    c (not)                         17 C        72.7      2p7 C       _20,8        _       TDS-Dlrect Ina.t. laC.    13.6     16.3     10.6     9.5      8.1
DDCZ 9n CUns CCOWs                   vL         -7.9      _l.t           .        _l)                Arae ioo of PuhLic Debt
Priut. birot Dne t_nt                18.2        22.5       82.6       99.6         96.8     155.9
Offloj. Capital Or Dt.                3.3         7.6       73.2      180.0         15.0      22.0     Avrag  Interest 5%)        5.9      5.1      3.9     5.3      5.4
Average Matrity (yr..)    15.8      25.7    28.4     23.2    22.4
Public I.I- Lonoc
iebmrocesto                        34.8        36.9       39.3       71.8        203.5     252.9  XPRD Debt Out. & Diebgreed
-RM"_nt.                            13.8       20.3        11.9      lo.5         .65.1    -15.2
N t  Diabcr.  t*                                 nt                       o 2   lo o138   7;Sg          a 5 Poblic Debt OD       8.2     12.4     22.9    27.8     22.2
a    Public Debt Service  11.5   10.2    13.2     14.8    16.i
Other 33LT Leam
Dinb.earto                            .          .          .          .            .         .    ID  Debt Oct. & Diobured
-;t\;;2gr_iii  77U  ISr u  J.                         n *o 5i Public Debt O1D
.o S Public Debt Ser-ice  -         -       -        -        -
Capital Tratnobono c.a.i.            24.0      -14.0        81.6       14.8
Chbrgo in Net Roc,s   (-   gain)     -4.5       -24.8     -119.8     -217.0        -95.7      .6.9                                   hctual Debt Outotondica on Dec.31.1975
DEVERUALDhlS                      Dieboreed Ola          Perceot
88.87 AND LDAN WMUWSMS
Ofri.ial Onrcntc & bOo-t-like         3.3         7.6       73.2      180.0         80.o      95.0     World Bank                          39.4                27.8
Public MOy Lc                                                                                          Other MoAtilarer.l                   41.6               29.h
lHRD                               15.0          -        26.0       41.0         45.0      63.1     Goer-ento                           53.6                37.8
IDA                                  _-                                             -         -      Spplier.                              5.8                4.1
I2B                                   -          -        135.0       78.6         32.1      45.0    Financil Intitutisne                  0.9                 0.6
Other Multilaterel                   5.9        1.8       lo.6       20.4         15.0       21.0    Bondo                                 0.4                 0.3
Oo,er,aec.to                         6.4       25.1       20.3       78.6         27.7       31.6    Public Debt. o.e.i. i
Suppliere                             -         3.2       72.0       75.0        106.5      171.5    Tcta2 Public WT Debt.
PFnci    lcstltutic,u                4.7       19.7         -          -            -        50.0
%o.do                               18.5         -          -          -            -          -     Other HALT Debt.
public Loau n.i.                      -          -        12.0         -            -          -     Shbrt-Te  Debt (diSb. nly)
Total Public  T Io.-                  9009       ID.B.5  4 27  9      293.b        7.W)     3iWO
not pplicable                                                    e   otff ectista
. ot avalable                                                    -   oil or ngligibla
.. noo avoilable anporoly but icludad it totni                     _-  le.. than talf th  -alleet unit hen
LAC - IB
Frbirery 14, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1977)
$ Million Amount
(net of cancellations)
Loan No.   Year     Borrower      Purpose               Total      Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                               46.5          -
722       1971     Government    Livestock               4.0         o.6
792       1971     GUATEL        Telecommunications     16.0         o.8
1104       1975     GUATEL        Telecommunications     26.0        24.8
1212       1976     Government    Education 2/           14.5        14.5
1314       1976     Government    Earthquake  2/
Reconstruction
Education and        6.5          6.5
Port
1315-T /1  1976     Government    Earthquake   3/
Reconstruction
Urban Sites and     20.0         20.0
Services                          _
Total                                        133.5
of which has been repaid                    22.4
Total now outstanding                        111.1
Amount sold                        3.5
of which has been repaid         3.1         o.4
Total now held by Bank                       110.7
Total undisbursed                                         67.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
$ Million Amount
Year    Obligor                       Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1958    Industria Harinera
Guatemalteca, S.A.          Flour Mill              0.2      -       0.2
1973    Exploraciones y Explota-       Mining and Process-
ciones Mineras Izabal, S.A.   ing of nickel        15.0      -      15.0
Total. Gross Commitments less cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales                  0.2      -       0.2
Total now held by IFC,                               15.0      -      15.0
of which has been disbursed                          -       -        -
1/ Third Window Loan.
2/ Effective April 20, 1977.
3/ Effective May 5, 1977. -



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 722     Livestock Project; US$4.0 million of February 10, 1971;
Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Progress of this project has been slower than anticipated, and
it is likely that disbursements will not be completed until
about 18 months after the original closing date of December 31,
1975. Operations improved when the Bank and the Borrower I
(Government of Guatemala) agreed to extend the project area to
include the Central Northern and Atlantic Coastal regions in
addition to the Pacific Coast, and the Government introduced
measures suggested by the Bank to accelerate commitments and
disbursements.
Ln. 792     Telecommunications: US$16.0 million of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Initial delays, resulting from the consolidation of the
principal sector entities and lags in procurement will delay
completion of disbursements by about one year beyond the
original closing date of December 31, 1976. -The project is
now progressing satisfactorily, and all contracts for the
Drocurement of goods have been signed.
Ln. 1104    Telecommunications:   US$26.0 million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
International competitive bidding is in process.
Ln. 1212    Education:  US$14.5 million of March 5, 1976; Effective Date:
April 20, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Consultants have been selected and designs for the schools
are being prepared.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Ln. 1314     Earthquake Reconstruction (Education and Port Rehabilitation):
US$6.5 million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date: April 20, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Consultants are preparing the plans and specifications for the
rehabilitation of the quay at Puerto Barrios.
Ln. 1315-T   Earthquake Reconstruction (Urban Sites and Services):    US$20.0
million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date:    Mayv 5. 1977:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Designs for the first phase of the project have been finalized
and bidding is in progress.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
GUATEMALA: THIRD POWER PROJECT OF
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
BORROWER:                INDE
GUARANTOR:              Republic of Guatemala
AMOUNT:                 US$55.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                  17 years including 3-1/2 years of grace with interest E
8.2 percent
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The project consists of:
A. Generation
(1) Construction of a concrete gravity
diversion 3dam in the Aguacapa River
(90,000 m 3) and a reservoir of
300,000 m for daily regulation;
(2) Construction of a concrete lined power
tunnel of 2.5 m, net inside diameter, and
12 km. in length;
(3)  Construction of a steel penstock of 2.5 m.
average inside diameter and 3.7 km. in
length; and
(4) Construction of a power station with
three 30 MW generating units.
B. Transmission
(1) Construction of step-up transformation
facilities at the power plant (13.8/230 kV,
3 x 37.5 MVA);
(2) Construction of a switching station (230 kV)
at about 500 m. downstream from the power
plant; and
(3) Construction of a single-circuit transmission
line at 230 kV to the existing Escuintla
substation (23 km.).
C. Consultant's Services
(1) 4o man-months for personnel administration and
financial management.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATED COST:
(US $ Millions)
Foreign     Local      Total
Infrastructure                               _        1.3       1.3
Civil works                               20.1       23.7       43.8
Electromechanical equipment               13.2        o.8       14.0
Ancillery mechanical equipment             8.7        1.3      10.0
Transmission system                        0.9        0.2       1.1
Sub-total                              42.9       27.3      70.2
Engineering and administration             4.5        4.7        9.2
Consultants' services                      0.3          -        0.3
Sub-total                               4.8        4.7       9.5
Total base cost                        47.7       32.0      79.7
Contingencies:  (i)   physical             3.4        2.6        6.o
(ii)  price               8.4         5.9      14.3
Total project cost                     59.5       40.5     100.0
Financial charges                   11.2          -       11.2
Financing required                        70.7       40.5      111.2
FINANCIAL PLAN
(US+$ Millions)
Foreign    Local    Total     Percentage
IBRD proposed loan                    55.0       -       55.0        49.5
CABEI (Central American Bank
for Economic Integration)            4.5       4.3      8.8         7.9
FIV (Venezuelan Investment Fund)       8.0      22.0      30.0       27.0
Internal cash generation and
Government capital transfers          -       17.4     17.4        15.6
Total Sources                         67.5      43.7    111.2       100.0
Percentages                  60.7      39.3    100.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions by FY)
1977      1978       1979    1980
Annual                                   9.0      24.4       16.2     5.4
Total Accumulated                        9.0      33.4       49.6    55.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
PROCUREMENT:                International competitive bidding (ICB) for all
Bank-financed works and equipment.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:       Local or foreign consultants will be contracted to
provide about 40 man-months of specialist services
for personnel administration and financial management.
RATE OF RETURN:             14.9 percent (on project and related subtransmission
and distribution system investments).
APPRAISAL REPORT:           Report No. 1361b-GU,dated March 31, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
GUATEMALA
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) ProJect Preparation
(i)  Pre-Feasibility Study            - December,1975
(ii)  Feasibility                       - June,1976
(b) Project Preparation Agency
Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE)
(Electrowatt Engineering Services Ltd.,
Switzerland, consultants)
(c) Preparation - Preappraisal
(i) First formal request for project
financing                           - April, 1975
(ii)  Power Sector Review                 - August,1975
(iii) First Bank Mission to consider
project                             - February,1976
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                 - February 23, 1976
(e)  Negotiations Completed                      - January 28, 1977
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                 - June, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Special Bank activities in implementing the project and the development
of the sector:
(a) Follow progress in implementation of National Rural Electrification
Program.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed that it will:
(a) (i) Reorganize its planning group into a department, incorporating
the technical team trained by the Master Plan group, before
June 30, 1978; (ii) reorganize the financial group into a department
headed by an experienced financial manager who would implement a
program for improvement of all financial functions before June 30,
1978; and (iii) finalize planning on INDE's own main office building,
before June 30, 1978 (paragraph 48).
(b) Retain all its net internal cash generation and take all necessary
measures to reduce accounts receivable from public sector agencies
to a maximum of 60 days by the end of 1977(paragraph 54).
(c) Not undertake any new project not included in the program involving
any expenditure in excess of US$1 million prior to completion of
the Aguacapa project (paragraph 55).
(d) Not contract any long-term debt, unless its net revenues are at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt-service requirement for any
future fiscal year (paragraph 55).
(e) Appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and send to
the Bank the audited financial statements and auditor's report
within four months from the end of the fiscal year each year for
the duration of the loan (paragraph 55).
The Government has agreed that:
(a) Retail tariffs of EEG and INDE will be set at levels sufficient
to cover with net internal resources, 16, 13, and 16 percent of their
consolidated construction expenditures in 1977, 1978, and 1979
respectively and 18 percent in the following years until the
completion of the Aguacapa project; and that after completion of the
Aguacapa project, tariffs should be sufficient to earn a rate of
return of at least 9 percent on their consolidated revalued net
fixed assets in operation (paragraph 52).
(b) Retail tariffs will be raised in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank as a condition of effectiveness (paragraphs 53 and 63).
(c) Any increase or decrease in fuel prices would continue to be passed
on to consumers (paragraph 53).
(d)  INDE's bulk tariffs to EEG would be adjusted annually at levels
sufficient to channel to INDE any funds generated by EEG in excess
of its requirements for operations, debt service, working capital
and construction (paragraph 53).



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(e) It will invest in equity capital of the Borrower all its cash dividends
from EEG (paragraph 53).
(f) Retail tariffs will not be lowered during the construction period
of the project (paragraph 53).
(g) The value of the power sector's fixed assets will be reviewed under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 52).
(h) It will take all necessary measures to reduce accounts receivable by
EEG and INDE from public sector agencies to a maximum of 60 days
consumption by the end of 1977 (paragraph 54).
(i) It will seek Bank's concurrence before allowing EEG to increase its
construction expenditure beyond US$3.9, US$4.5 and US$5.7 million
in 1977, 1978 and 1979 respectively (paragraph 55).
(j) It would take all necessary actions to bring about the economic
operation of all generating and transmission facilities in the
interconnected system and to assure that expansion of these facilities
will be based on economically justifiable programs (paragraph 62).
(k) Unless the Bank should otherwise agree, it would make equity
contributions to INDE of US$11.5 million, US$17.5 million and
US$15.7 million in the years 1977, 1978 and 1979, respectively
(paragraph 51).
(1) It will carry out a comprehensive tariff study (paragraph 53).
(m)  The Government, INDE, and EEG will execute a Subsidiary Contract
satisfactory to the Bank (as a condition of effectiveness), the
specific purpose of which is to ensure that EEG, not a party to
the agreement with the Bank, will take all necessary action as and
when required (paragraph 63).
(n) As a condition of effectiveness, the Venezuelan Investment Fund
(or other source acceptable to the Bank) will have approved a
loan for the Project of at least US$17.0 million equivalent
(paragraph 63).






m,,ff  a/  ,-'  -.                                                            /  
MEaICO       Ca' I 1            a~       M    E   X   I   C   0
P.",1 0--a                                         GUATEMALA
cosra~>  >\~*        INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
_               W                    (INDE
BELMOPAN
B  E   L  I  Z  E
P E T E N
M   E   X    I  C   O
-- - - -- -                                                                        la-. .
COBA                       L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H >        N D
5ANf                        A J A   V E
r       ig7 - 4 self SNTAI  hIDJZSi
La Logan/a  ,  GUIATEP  LA                  F   i 
T  _ )      ~r-4_ '-  \_   YT  
Zi HUEHUETENANGO  ,   i_ A L T A  V E R A P A Z ~    ~      ~~~~~             ~~~~//G  ay a/Ko>
MALuR1  ==                              0 a// a 
;-     t     T-AMi@ EPEi4<XUI                                                509><  k r r,_P  /4
g5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 5A kw w:SXc/  
U     I   N H  _L        t                                        : k u   U
<1    t ~E "L  S A LV A DO R-
P  A      I             COC E  dAS Noo .o^rT 



