Report No. 1361b-GU                                                     FILE    COPY
Appraisal of Aguacapa Power Project
Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE)
Guatemala
May 4, 1977
Energy Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =   Quetzal (Q)
Q 1.00 = 100 centavos       =   US$1.00
ACRONYMS
CABEI        =      Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CEL          =      Comisio'n Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del R;o Lempa (El Salvador)
EEG          =      Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.
FIV          =      Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
INDE         =      Instituto Nacional de Electrificaci6n
IDB          =      Inter-American Development Bank
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW           =      kilowatt
MW           =      megawatt = 1,000 kw
kWh          =      kilowatt hour
GWh          =      gigawatt hour = 1,000,000 kWh
kV           =      kilo volt-ampere
MVA          =      mega volt-ampere
m            =      meter = 3.28 feet
km           =      kilometer = 0.621 mile
kcal         =      kilocalories = 1,000 calories
FISCAL YEAR
INDE's fiscal year ends December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
GUATEMALA
Table of Contents
Page No.
Summary  and  Conclusions                                                                     i-iii
1.     Introduction  .............    .                ..................................               1
2.     The  Power  Sector  ..... ........ ................  ... ..............                          2
Energy  Consumption  and  Resources  ....                    ..................          2
Power  Sector  ..... .   ........ .      ...........................                     3
Sector Review .......................                                                    4
Organization and Management .                           ..........................    4
System  Expansion  and  Plannning  .......................                               4
Service  Extensions  ..... ............. ..... . . .... .............. .                 5
Existing  Tariffs  and  Finances  .........................                              5
Sector Development  ..... ...........                   .....................            5
Future  Sector  Organization  ............................                               6
Future  Expansion                ......................................                  6
Future Tariff Structure ..... .................                                          7
3.     The  Borrower    ...............................................                                 7
Organization and Management ..................                                           8
Audit  .................................................                                 9
Performance  Indicators  .................................                               9
4.    The  Project                  ................................................                   10
The  Program  ...........................................                               10
Project Costs  .........................................                                12
Engineering  and  Project Execution  .....................                              13
Procurement and Disbursement  ..........................                                13
Environment  ...........................................                                14
Project  Risk  ..........................................                               14
5.     Justification  of  the  Project  .............                 ..       ................        15
Objectives  ............................................                                15
Load  Forecast  .........................................                               16
Least-Cost  Solution  ...................................                               16
Return  on  Investment  ..................................                              17
This report was prepared by Messrs. C.F. Mena and J. Acevedo-Navas.
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
6.      Finances             ..................             .................................                          18
Background                   ............................................                             18
Past  Earnings  and  Financial  Position                               ................ ..            18
Financing  Plans   .......................................                                            19
Future  Earnings  and  Financial  Position  ....                                 ............         21
7.      Agreements  to  be  Reached  and  Recommendations   ...............                                            24



List of Annexes
1.   Energy Consumption
2.   Power Sector Installed Capacity
3.   Terms of Reference of the Sector Organization Commission
4.   Schedule for INDE's Organization Strengthening and Studies
5.   Power Market
6.   INDE and EEG Tariffs
7.   Sector Energy Requirements
8.   Project Description and Costs
9.   Chixoy Hydroelectric Project
10.   Project Implementation Schedule
11.   Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
12.   Performance Indicators
13.   Economic Justification
14.   Finances
15.   INDE's Organization Chart
Map
IBRD 12449






APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
GUATEMALA
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report covers the appraisal of the Aguacapa hydroelectric
project (90 MW), for which Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE) has
requested financial assistance.
ii.       The proposed loan would be the third by the Bank to INDE, a govern-
ment-owned autonomous institution founded in 1959, and responsible for bulk
electricity supply and retail distribution outside the concession area
(Guatemala City) of Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A. (EEG). The projects
financed by the two previous loans to INDE have been successfully completed.
However, the project performance audit on these two loans concluded that the
two most serious problems of the sector--the poor financial performance of
INDE and the lack of development of Guatemala's hydroelectric resources--had
not been resolved. The major objective of the Bank's proposed renewed in-
volvement in the Guatemalan power sector is to assist in addressing these
problems.
iii.      INDE and EEG (founded in 1922) are the main utilities in the power
sector. The dichotomy between these entities resulting from their different
operating styles and outlooks constitutes a constraint in the performance and
development of the sector. Aware of the sector organization's shortcomings,
Government established a special commission in January 1976 to study the
problem and to propose actions to improve sector organization, strengthen
INDE, and formulate a national electricity tariff policy. The commission
presented its report (which recommends that a single entity, INDE, be res-
ponsible for the public electricity service in Guatemala) to Government in
September 1976. Government has not acted on the commission's recommendations.
However, it has stated its intention to develop an improved organization
structure for the sector. Its decisions would be communicated to the Bank by
June 1977. The proposed Loan Agreement contains provisions to ensure that
there will be adequate consultations between the Government and the Bank prior
to the implementation of any major decisions affecting INDE's organization.
iv.       By mid-1979, demand for power in Guatemala is expected to be equal
to the available firm capacity. In order to maintain adequate service re-
liabilty, additional capacity would need to be operational by that date. The
Aguacapa project would provide the additional capacity required and make
possible a substantial reduction in thermal generation thus reducing the
country's dependence on imported fuel. This project is one of the two hydro-
electric plants included in INDE's least-cost expansion program (1976-1982);
the other is the Chixoy plant (300 MW), expected to be in operation by 1982,
and for which the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) made loans totalling
US$105 million in 1975.



- ii -
v.        The return on investment of the project is estimated at 14.9%.
This rate of return indicates that electricity prices will, on average, be
higher than incremental system costs, suggesting that wasteful use of
electricity will be avoided.
vi.       INDE's organization has not been structured to function effec-
tively. New management is aware of the organization's shortcomings, and has
agreed to implement improvements in the areas of administration, finance,
personnel and planning during project execution. This program should result
in improvement of INDE's effectiveness.
vii.      The proposed US$55 million loan would cover 92.5% of the project's
foreign costs (excluding interest during construction) and contains a compo-
nent to cover management consultants' services to assist INDE. The remainder
of the foreign currency requirements would be financed by CABEI (US$4.5
million). Local currency requirements (US$40.5 million) would be financed by
a loan from the Venezuelan Investment Fund (US$30 million), CABEI (US$4.3
million), and net internal cash generation (US$6.2 million). The loan would
allow the Bank to participate in the financing of this critically needed
project and, equally important, assist Government in the implementation of
improvements in the power sector.
viii.     Procurement of equipment, materials and construction services that
would be financed by the Bank is being completed through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) in accordance with guidelines for procurement under Bank
loans. INDE's award recommendations on three of the four contracts involved
have been reviewed and the Bank has concurred with INDE's recommendations.
Award of the largest contract (civil works) was complicated by INDE's proposed
partial award, in accordance with the respective bidding documents, to the two
contractors who presented bids for the complete works. INDE, with the Bank's
concurrance, decided to issue invitations for new tenders on these works. The
new bids are expected to be received in Mlarch 1977. Electrowatt (Switzerland),
INDE's consultant for the project, has prepared all bidding documents, per-
formed bid evaluations and would be responsible for project supervision.
INDE has issued letters of intent to the successful bidders. Formal contracts
are expected to be signed after the approval of the proposed loan. No retro-
active financing would be required.
ix.       The power sector's financial performance was satisfactory through
1973 but deteriorated thereafter as substantial increases in fuel costs were
not fully offset by tariff increases. The situation improved in 1976 and is
expected to improve further as a result of a tariff increase in 1976 and an
additional increase agreed for 1977. With the agreed increased revenues, the
sector would be in a position to finance a satisfactory proportion (15%) of
the very large investment program which it is undertaking to reduce the
country's dependence on imported fuel. After the two major components of
this program (para. iv) are complete, the sector would be in a very strong
financial position.
x.        Although, as noted above, the financial performance of the power
sector was satisfactory through 1973 and is expected to improve in 1976-77,
INDE's own finances have been weak. This weakness was attributable in the



- iii -
past to its failure to charge adequate bulk supply tariffs to EEG, which
distributes over three-quarters of INDE's generation. The financing plan
reflects the agreement that INDE's tariffs to EEG would be adjusted annually
to transfer to INDE any funds generated by EEG in excess of its own require-
ments. With the agreed bulk and retail tariff arrangements and Government
equity contributions aggregating US$44.6 million in the years 1977-79, INDE
should experience no difficulty in implementing the proposed project.
xi.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to INDE of
US$55 million with a term of 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace.






- 1 -
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
GUATEIALA
1. Introduction
1.01      Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE), supported by Govern-
ment, has requested financial assistance from the Bank to build the Aguacapa
hydroelectric project. INDE, a government-owned autonomous institution re-
sponsible for bulk electricity supply and retail distribution outside the
concession area (Guatemala City) of Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A.
(EEG), has received two Bank loans totalling US$22 million. I/ The projects
financed with these loans were successfully executed and the facilities in-
volved are in operation. A project performance audit on these two loans has
been distributed to the Executive Directors. 2/ It concluded that the Bank
played an important role in the expansion of Guatemala's power supply and in
helping to establish INDE as the major institution in the power sector.
Nevertheless, the two most serious problems of the sector--the poor financial
performance of INDE and the lack of development of Guatemala's hydroelectric
resources -- were not resolved. The major objective of the Bank's proposed
renewed involvement in the Guatemalan power sector is to assist the Government
in addressing these problems.
1.02      The project consists of the critically needed Aguacapa hydroelec-
tric plant (90 MW) to reliably meet demand by 1979 while allowing substantial
reduction in thermal generation, thus reducing the country's dependence on
imported fuel. A reliable supply of electricity is essential to Guatemala's
economic growth and industrial development. The project, estimated to cost
US$100 million (with a foreign exchange component of US$59.5 million), will
facilitate achievement of these goals through the economic utilization of
the country's indigenous resources.
1.03      The proposed loan of US$55 million would cover 92.5% of the proj-
ect's foreign cost; would contain a component (US$0.25 million) to finance
management consultants services for the institutional strengthening of INDE;
and would supplement loans from the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV) and the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) expected to total
US$38.8 million. As noted above, the main objective of the project is to
1/   Loan 487-GU of 3/10/67 (US$15 million) for the construction of Jurun
Marinala hydroelectric plant (60 MW) and corresponding transmission,
Escuintla gas turbine-generator plant (15 14W) and Puerto Matias diesel
plant (5 MW). Loan 545-GU of 6/28/68 (US$7 million) for construction
of Escuintla generating station (33 MW-steam).
2/   Project Performance Audit Report on Guatemala First and Second Power
Projects (Loans 487-GU and 545-GU)--Sec M75-99 of February 14, 1975.



- 2 -
provide urgently needed additional generating capacity and maintain adequate
service reliability. The proposed loan would allow the Bank, in addition
to contributing to the project's execution, an equally important participation
in assisting Government to carry out sector reforms, expected to consider-
ably improve electric service throughout Guatemala by the time the project
is completed. Government is considering a new sector organization which
is expected to strengthen the role of INDE. Implementation of the financial
policies underlying the agreements relating to the proposed loan would
make a major contribution to INDE's finances.
1.04      This report is based on INDE's study of its expansion program
(1976-82); on a feasibility study of the Aguacapa project, completed by Electro-
watt (Switzerland) in June 1976; on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. Carlos F. Mlena and Billy Martin, which visited Guatemala
in February and April of 1976, and on discussions between INDE and Bank staff
in lWashington (September 1976).
2. The Power Sector
Energy Consumption and Resources
2.01      Gross energy consumption in Guatemala, although accelerating sub-
stantially in recent years (from an average growth rate of 3.9% p.a. in the
1960's to 5.9% p.a. in 1970-73, see Annex 1) is still at a low level by Cen-
tral American standards. It amounted to 1,967 M.T.o.e. 1/ (0.34 T.o.e. per
capita) in 1973, which is about two-fifths the highest national consumption
level in the area (0.82 T.o.e. per capita in Panama) and well below the re-
gional average (0.44 T.o.e. per capita). This reflects the fact that about
40% of the population has yet to be integrated into the modern sector of the
economy. While commercial energy (petroleum derivatives and hydroelectric-
ity) has been growing in importance, a high proportion of total consumption
(46% in 1973) was derived from traditional energy sources (wood and bagasse).
Total gross consumption of electric energy generated by public utilities and
self producers is estimated at 1,140 GWh (about 181 kWh per capita) in 1975.
2.02      Thus far Guatemala has had to import all of its petroleum fuels.
However, spurred on by major oil discoveries in southern Mexico and the en-
ergy crisis, exploration for oil and gas by private oil companies was inten-
sified and commercial finds have been recently reported. On the other hand,
Guatemala has a large, technically exploitable hydroelectric potential which
has recently been calculated at 4,300 MW. This contrasts sharply with 121 MW
(2.5% of the potential) in installed hydroelectric capacity. Moreover, being
1/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 107 kcal. M.T.o.e. = 1000
T.o.e.



- 3 -
a country with geological characteristics similar to El Salvador's and
Nicaragua's -- where geothermal potential is being successfully defined --
Guatemala should also have an exploitable geothermal potential.
2.03            Gross consumption of electric energy generated by public
utilities increased from 541 GWh in 1970 to 958 GWh in 1975, representing an
average growth rate of 11.5% p.a. The main factor contributing to this
relatively high growth rate has been the substantial development of the
industrial sector which in 1975 accounted for 45% of the total power consump-
tion, while residential consumption amounted to 27% and commercial consumption
to 15%. The remainder was absorbed by the government sector. The relative
market share of the industrial sector is expected to continue to grow during
the project period, as shown below for sales in the central interconnected
system, which represents 85% of the total market:
Actual        _                      Forecast
1974                 1975                        1980
GWh         %        GWh         %               GWh         %
Industrial          307         45        337         45             528         47
Residential          190         28       202         27              303         27
Commercial          102         15        112         15              169         15
Municipal             71         10         75        10              101          9
Governmental         21           2        22          3               23          2
691        100       748        100             1124~      To0
Power Sector
2.04      The power sector consists of INDE, EEG, numerous (though consider-
ably smaller) private and municipal utilities and self-producers. Some of the
smaller utilities have their own generating capacity and are not intercon-
nected with INDE or EEG systems; the remainder purchase bulk energy from INDE
or EEG. EEG was established in 1922 by foreign investors to serve the coun-
try's most lucrative market, Guatemala City and its environs. INDE was cre-
ated in 1959 by the Government to serve the rest of the country and to assume
responsibility for expansion of power generation.
2.05      The relative shares in total public service generation and sales
to consumers in 1975 were as follows:
Retail
Generation              Sales
INDE                    68%                  10%
EEG                     30%                  76%
Others                   2%                  14%



- 4 -
Present total generating capacity amounts to 326 MW. Of this, 207 MWJ (64%)
are in the interconnected system located in the southern half of the country;
16 MW (5%) correspond to isolated INDE, privately and municipally-owned util-
ities; and 100 MIW (31%) belong to miscellaneous self-producers.
Sector Review
2.06      A Bank mission visited Guatemala in August 1975 to review the power
sector. The mission's findings were discussed with the Guatemalan authorities
in MIarch and July 1976, and have provided the basic orientation for the pro-
posed loan. The mission's analysis of the main factors which have limited
the power sector's contribution to the country's economy is summarized below.
Organization and Management
2.07      The sector has been marked by conflict between INDE and EEG, both in
operating style and outlook. EEG has been relatively well managed. However,
despite the acquisition of 93% ownership by Government in 1972, it continues
to view its functions rather narrowly. INDE has been less well managed,
financially weak and, in particular, has not until recently discharged its
responsibility for expanding power generation in an effective manner. The
project performance audit of the first two Bank loans to INDE noted that the
organization of the sector was the most important problem facing Government
in the sector.
System Expansion and Planning
2.08      After an early exercise (consisting of the preparation of a hydro-
electric resource survey and master plan for the power sector in 1960-62,
with financing from the UN Special Fund and for which the Bank acted as
Executing Agency) there was no sound follow-up or long-term planning for the
expansion of the system. INDE, which is responsible for generation expansion,
failed to discharge this function effectively, particularly in project prepar-
ation. As pointed out in the project performance audit of the first two Bank
loans, the development of the country's abundant hydroelectric resources
fell behind the pace recommended in the master plan. Only 40% of additions
in generating capacity since 1962 have been hydroelectric, compared with a
recommended 95% in the power study referred to above. The high thermal com-
ponent rendered the power sector finances particularly vulnerable to the
world-wide readjustment of fuel prices which began in 1973.
2.09      Aware of the sector's shortcomings, Government and INDE created a
Mlaster Plan Group to fill the gaps in sector planning. With the help of con-
sultants, under the auspices of the Technical Cooperation Agreement between
the Governments of Guatemala and the German Federal Republic, the Group has
issued its report. 1/ The report identifies 121 exploitable hydroelectric
1/   "Plan M4aestro de Electrificacion Nacional, 1977-2000," dated May 1976.



projects with an estimated aggregate firm capacity of about 4,300 141W. After
a detailed investigation of these projects, 20 hydro aiid 8 thermal projects
have been selected to meet the anticipated load growth through the year 2000.
Service Extensions
2.10      Sales of electricity to final consumers totalled 850 GW4h, or 135
kllh per capita in 1975 (Annex 5). In addition to being low by Central Ameri-
can standards, this per capita consumption masks an extremely uneven regional
distribution of the electricity load. Consumption per capita in Guatemala
City and environs amounted to 456 kWh, which is about 14 times the consump-
tion per capita of 33 kWh in the rest of the country. Of about 6.3 million
inhabitants in 1975 only about 20% received electrical service. This figure
is among the lowest in Latin America. The Government is aware that electricity
must be made available to a greater proportion of the population and, through
INDE, it has initiated a series of rural electrification programs to meet
this objective.
Existing Tariffs and Finances
2.11      EEG's concession agreement gives it the power to set tariffs within
ample limits and INDE's charter gives it full discretion in this area. In
practice, however, tariff increases have been subject to Government approval.
Tariffs of the two utilities (Annex 6) have been developed independently,
without adopting a common focus. EEG's tariffs were reviewed and updated in
1975 with the help of consultants, but this was done from the perspective of
EEG as a distribution utility, planning only a few years ahead and not con-
cerned with overall sector policies. Except for the application of a fuel
adjustment clause, INDE's retail tariff level and structure have not been
changed since 1967. IIIDE's tariff to EEG is fixed annually through negotia-
tions between the parties.
2.12      In the past, tariffs have not been set at levels sufficient to
provide an adequate contribution to sector expansion. Increases in consumer
charges in the last two years have not been sufficient to offset increasing
operating costs. Consequently, the financial position of the sector has
been weak. This situation can only be improved by increasing sector reve-
nues. However, because of the bulky nature of the investment program ahead,
and since consumer charges are already relatively high (US$0.052/kWh) it
would not be reasonable to raise the substantial funds required solely
through tariffs; a blend of tariff increases, borrowings and government
contributions would be more appropriate.
Sector Development
2.13      To resolve the problems described above Government should decide
on the main outline of future sector organization, particularly in view of
the expiration of EEG's concession in Mlay, 1977. Government should develop
also a sound policy on tariffs. Finally, it should implement the measures
required for the institutional strengthening of IlIDE, while the utility
carries out the needed expansion of its facilities.



2.14      The proposed loan for the Aguacapa project would allow the Bank to
contribute more effectively than in the past towards the strengthening of the
sector and the development of Guatemala's natural resources.  The Bank has
also been asked to participate in the financing of a second major hydroelec-
tric project, Chixoy, which was appraised in March 1977.
Future Sector Organization
2.15      With the objective of strengthening the sector, Government cre-
ated a special commission on sector reorganization in January 1976 to study
alternatives for the future organization of the sector and to develop rec-
ommendations for action by the Cabinet-level National Economic Commission.
The special commission's terms of reference (Annex 3) also required it to
propose broad policies in the areas of tariffs and the strengthening of
INDE. The comimission submitted a report to the National Economic Commission
in late September 1976. With regard to sector reorganization the report
recommends principally that only one entity be responsible for public elec-
tricity service, and that INDE absorb EEG's operations as well as those of
all other private and municipal electric utilities. Government has yet to
react to this recommendation, but has stated its intentions to reorganize the
sector to develop an improved institutional structure covering generation,
transmission, and distribution. It would communicate its decision on this
matter to the Bank by June 30, 1977, and complete sector reorganization
by December 31, 1979. ITIDE agreed not to create or acquire any company if
such action would adversely affect its financial condition or the efficiency
of its management and personnel; and that any change in INDE's charter, or
the passage of a resolution for the dissolution of INDE, without the agreement
of the Bank, would be an event of default under the proposed Loan Agreement.
These provisions ensure that there will be adequate consultation between
Government and the Bank prior to the implementation of any major deci-
sion under the proposed reorganization which might affect INDE.
Future Expansion
2.16      The sector expansion program is described in paragraph 4.01 and
the major installations involved appear on the map. In addition to conven-
tional thermal and hydro plants, INDE has commenced exploratory drillings
for the development of geothermal resources. Favorable preliminary results
in the IIoyuta field (see map) have led INDE to plan a 30 M11W plant for com-
mercial operation by year-end 1981.
2.17      INDE is now preparing a national rural electrification program
which should give a better idea of the Government/INDE targets regarding
access to supply and of their financing/subsidization implications. Upon
completion of the program (planned for mid-1977), INDE expects to obtain
financial assistance from IDB for this rural electrification program.



2.18      Discussions have been proceeding for the past two years between
representatives of INDE and the Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio
Lempa (CEL) of El Salvador concerning a transmission line to tie their
electric systems by year-end 1979. Consultants for a feasibility study
were selected in late 1976. The proposed transmission line could be the
initial step leading to the effective integration of both systems, as it is
likely that the line will prove to be of benefit to both countries. If this
expectation is confirmed, and an agreement is reached between El Salvador
and Guatemala, the line could be in operation by year-end 1979. Initially,
energy is expected to flow from El Salvador to Guatemala, because El Salvador
would have available spare capacity to sell outside its market. After 1983,
when the Chixoy project is expected to be in operation, the reverse could take
place. Both INDE's and CEL's finances should benefit significantly from the
proposed interconnection. Consequently, the Bank should provide the assis-
tance that may be required by both countries to reach this goal. CABEI is
expected to finance the line.
2.19      In addition to the study mentioned above, the United Nations Eco-
nomic Commission for Latin America is conducting a study on the long-range
possibilities for interconnection among the Central American countries.
INDE and CEL are cooperating in this study; its first stage was recently
completed and is currently under review. The study includes an assessment
of the long-term costs and benefits of various interconnection possibilities
which could provide a basis for regional sector planning and integrated elec-
tric system operation.
Future Tariff Structure
2.20      The special commission on sector reorganization proposed the unifi-
cation of electricity tariffs. A comprehensive tariff study should be carried
out to recommend new tariff levels and structures for all final consumltrs,
conciliating as best as possible the various objectives. The timing of the
various steps required to carry out such a study and for Government and INDE
to develop a position on its recommendations, as agreed, is shown in Annex 4.
The Bank obtained from Government and INDE assurance on the timely execution
of the tariff study. Prior to this study, however, the Government and INDE
agreed to interim increases in the present tariff levels which are discussed
in detail in Section 6.
3. The Borrower
3.01      The borrower will be INDE, which is entrusted with the development
of the nation's bulk supply system and distribution of electricity outside the
concession area (Guatemala City and environs) of EEG.



-8-
Organization and blanagement
3.02      INDE's organization (Annex 15), which has not changed significantly
since the second project was appraised in 1968, needs improvement. INDE's
management is aware of the organization's shortcomings, but pending sector
reorganization had only carried out relatively minor reforms, particularly
in construction management, where improvement has been noticeable through the
creation of major project construction teams. Government agreed to support,
and INDE to carry out, a program that would result in the necessary general
institutional strengthening and improvement of the utility (Annex 4). Some
improvements would be initiated immediately; others after sector reorganization
begins (June 1977). The immediate measures to be carried out by June 30, 1977
are: the hiring of an experienced financial analyst for the financial
analysis unit of the planning group, and an experienced personnel manager to
prepare a personnel upgrading program; and the simplification of procedures
relating to the handling of correspondence, aimed at providing a practical and
effective system.
3.03      Government recognizes that major reforms in INDE's organization
should be carried out as soon as possible, even if these may require some
adjustments after the final sector arrangement is defined. The principal
areas, in order of importance, requiring improvements are listed below, with
a brief description of the measures to be implemented:
(a) Personnel. INDE is short of specialized and experienced
professionals, particularly at mid-management (department
head) levels. The number of operation employees (1560 in
1975) is high in terms of customers served. Intensive
construction activity on force account has caused the util-
ity to increase its unskilled staff substantially; the
number of construction workers rose from 800 in 1975 to
3580 by mid-1976. INDE agreed that by June 30, 1978 it
would put into effect a program to upgrade the quality of
its staff (through training, hiring and reduction programs).
Construction forces will be substantially reduced when civil
contractors mobilize for the Aguacapa and Chixoy project
works, early in 1977.  Nevertheless, by year-end 1978, INDE
would phase out completely construction on force account of
major works;
(b)  Planning.  Since inception, INDE has relied almost exclusively
on the use of outside planning consultants. It agreed to
strengthen gradually this function, but its planning group is
not adequately organized or staffed to readily achieve this
objective. Therefore, INDE agreed to reorganize its plan-
ning group by June 30, 1978 into a department, incorporating
in it the technical team trained by the master plan group.
The head of the new deparetment would report to the general
manager;



- 9 -
(c)  Financial Staff.  This group performs essentially account-
ing functions. It is overstaffed. Mechanization of routine
accounting is still rudimentary. Financial planning is
inadequate and efficiency is generally low. Although tardy,
its operating and financial reports are, nevertheless,
complete. INDE agreed to reorganize the financial group by
June 30, 1978, into a department headed by an experienced
financial manager who would implement a program for effective
financial planning and improvement of the accounting function.
The head of this new department would report directly to the
general manager; and
(d)  Working Conditions.  Main offices are excessively over-
crowded, in part as a result of overstaffing, but mainly
because these facilities have not been planned for the use
being given (INDE rents all its office space, which is
dispersed in several commercial buildings in the city).
These conditions do not stimulate good performance and rental
expenses are high. INDE agreed to finalize planning of its
own main office building by June 30, 1978.
3.04      To assist INDE in carrying out the improvements listed above, an
amount in the proposed loan has been allocated to finance consultant ser-
vices that would be required, particularly for the personnel upgrading pro-
gram (para 3.03(a)) and the reorganization of the financial group (para.
3.03(c)).
Audit
3.05      INDE's financial statements are audited by a local auditing firm
(Lizarralde y Ayestas Asociados) whose work has been satisfactory. INDE
agreed to continue appointing independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and to send to the Bank the audited financial statements together with the
auditor's report within four months from the end of each fiscal year.
Performance Indicators
3.06      Annex 12 shows a representative selection of indicators of INDE's
operating and financial performance (other than those covered by proposed
covenants) through the year following project completion. Performance as
measured by these indicators would be monitored during project execution.



- 10 -
4.   The Project
The Program
4.01      INDE's expansion program during the period 1976-1979 consists of
the following works:
(a)  Generation:            -  Escuintla gas turbine generators -
2 x 25 MW (1976) 1/
-  Escuintla I gas - 33 MW (1976)
-  Escuintla II gas - 53 MW (1977)
-  Palin II hydro plant - 5 MW (1978)
-  Aguacapa hydro plant - 90 MW (1979)
-  Moyuta geothermal plan - 30 MW (1981) 2/
-  Chixoy hydro plant - 300 MD; (1982)
-  Improvements on small hydro plants
(b) Transmission:
Lines:                 -  Escuintla - Guatemala Sur, 43 km,
1st circuit, 230 kV (1978)
-  Guatemala Sur - Guatemala Norte, 30 km,
1st circuit, 230 kV (1979)
-  Aguacapa - Escuintla, 23 km; 1 circuit,
230 kV (1979)
-  Guatemala - El Salvador, 105 km, I circuit,
230 kV (1980) 2/
-  300 km, 1 circuit, 69 kV
Substations:           -  Escuintla expansion, 100 MVA, 230/138 kV
(1977)
-  Guatemala Sur, 150 MVA, 230/69 kV (1979)
-  Guatemala Norte, 150 MVA, 230/69 kV (1980)
(c)  Distribution           -  Ongoing low-voltage system expansion
(d)  Rural Electrification -  Ongoing program (1978)
-  El Peten, Atlantic, and Southwestern
regional programs (1982)
(e)  Studies:               -  Future generating and transmission
facilities
1/   Parentheses indicate expected commissioning dates.
2/   Subject to confirmation of its economic merits.  Feasibility reports
expected by year-end 1977.



- 11 -
(f)  Building               -  New headquarters for INDE's central
offices in Guatemala City (1979).
4.02      These works call for an investment of US$364.1 million during the
disbursement period of the proposed Bank loan (1977-1979), as follows:
…---- US$ millions…
A.   Ongoing and continuing works:
a.   Escuintla Unit II (53 MW)                                0.6
b.   Palin II (5 MW) and small hydro improvements             5.4
c.   Transmission expansion (Escuintla-Guatemala Sur-
43 km, Escuintla substantion-100 MVA                     4.7
d.   Low-voltage distribution expansion                      13.3
e.   Rural electrification                                    0.3
Sub-total A                     24.3
B.   The Project (Aguacapa) (details in Annex 8)
(total project cost US$100.0 million)                        89.4
C.   The Chixoy hydro project (details in Annex 9)
(total project cost, US$273.3 million)                      141.5
D.   Future Works                                                         _
a.   Moyuta geothermal plant                                 19.6
b.   Transmission expansion (Guatemala Sur - Guatemala
Norte - 30 km, Guatemala - El Salvador, Guatemala
Norte Substantion - 150 MVA)                            13.8
c.   Rural electrification (El Peten, Atlantic and
Southwestern regional programs                          25.2
d.   Studies                                                  4.1
e.   Headquarters building                                    6.1
Sub-total D                     68.8
E.   Overhead and interest charged to construction                40.1
Total                          364.1
The financing plans for this program and for the sector (INDE/EEG consolidated)
are discussed in Section 6, Finances.
4.03      The major project in IliDE's construction program is Chixoy, for
which IDB, FIV and CABEI have already provided substantial financing (para.
6.09). Preliminary works of the Chixoy project were initiated early in 1976
and the major civil contract (for the tunnel) is expected to be awarded
shortly. This contract would be financed by IDB and FIV. The main risk
involved in this project is the power tunnel (26 km) because it would traverse
unfavorable geologic formations which could cause extended delays in project



- 12 -
completion. In order to meet INDE's construction program for this project,
the diversion works would need to be initiated as soon as possible. Although
construction of the main dam could be started a year later, there is the
possibility that contractors would bid lower for the combined works (diversion
and main dam) than if they were tendered separately. Under this assumption,
INDE requested, and the Bank accepted, that advance bidding for the main
dam be allowed. However, contract signing for the dam would only take place
after approval of the proposed fourth Bank loan.
Project Cost
4.04      The major elements of the project are the 90 MW Aguacapa hydro-
electric plant and its associated transmission, as detailed in Annex 8. The
project's estimated cost is US$100.0 million, with a US$59.5 million foreign
component. The proposed loan would cover 92.5% of the foreign exchange
component. Total financing requirements, including interest during construc-
tion, are US$111.2 million, as shown in the following table.
-- million of US$ and Q ---
Foreign     Local      Total
Infrastructure                         -          1.30       1.30
Civil works                          20.18       23.65      43.83
Electromechanical equipment          13.20        0.84      14.04
Ancillary mechanical equipment        8.69        1.30       9.99
Transmission system                   0.87        0.21       1.08
Physical contingencies                3.37        2.61       5.98
Sub-total (Direct Cost)         46.31       29.91      76.22
Engineering & administration /1       4.50        4.74       9.24
Management consultants' services    0.25           -         0.25
Price contingencies                   8.39        5.90      14.29
Total Costs                     59.45       40.55    100.00
Financing charges during
construction /2                    11.20         -        11.20
Financing requirements          70.65       40.55    111.20
/1   Financed US$8.8 million in loans from CABEI.
77   Interest and other charges on Bank, CABEI and FIV loans.



- 13 -
4.05      Costs are based on actual bids for project works and physical
contingency allowances of 10% for civil works and 5% for equipment and mate-
rials, which are considered adequate. A higher allowance for civil works was
not considered necessary because thorough geologic investigations have not
disclosed adverse tunneling conditions (the longest tunnel length between
adits is 4 km). Further corroboration of this conclusion has been obtained in
actual project tunnel construction by INDE's own forces which have already
completed a total length of about 2.5 km (21%) in three different headings
without encountering any major obstacle. The basic cost estimate is in prices
of June 1976, to which an allowance for price increases has been added using
the following annual escalation:
International      Local
1976 (second half)                   9%            13%
1977-79                              8%            12%
Engineering and administration expenditures reflect an existing contract 1/
between INDE and Electrowatt (Switzerland) for design engineering and con-
struction supervision of the project. The cost of management consulting
services has been estimated on the basis of an average cost of US$4,750
per man-month. All these costs (detailed in Annex 8) are reasonable.
Engineering and Project Execution
4.06      All engineering phases of the project will be carried out by Electro-
watt who will also perform construction supervision. INDE expects to execute
the project by contracting all major works, as well as the supply and instal-
lation of equipment and materials. It also intends to carry out on force
account some civil works on dam foundation preparation and tunnel adits.
4.07      The project is expected to be in commercial operation by June 30,
1979. Annex 10 contains the agreed project implementation schedule, which will
serve as a basis to monitor project progress.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.08      Procurement of equipment, materials, and construction services for
the project to be financed by the Bank will be through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Because of the urgency of the project, INDE initiated procurement soon after
project appraisal by the Bank. ICB for all major contracts was conducted in
May/June 1976 and bids were received from suppliers in 6 Bank member countries.
Bid evaluations have been completed; the Bank has reviewed them and concurred
with INDE's award recommendations on three of the four contracts that would be
1/   Financed by CABEI.



- 14 -
financed with the proposed loan. 1/ INDE has issued formal letters of intent
to the successful bidders (these letters condition signing of formal contracts
on INDE receiving the proposed Bank loan). Formal contracts are expected to
be signed after approval of the proposed loan.
4.09      Award of the largest contract (civil works) was complicated by
INDE's proposed partial contract award, in accordance with the respective
bidding documents, to the two contractors who presented bids for the complete
works. INDE, with the Bank's concurrence, decided to issue an invitation
for new tenders on these works. The new bids were received by March 1977,
and INDE's bid award recommendation is expected in May 1977.
4.10      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made according to the
schedule in Annex 11, for:
(a) 49% of total expenditures for civil works (representing the
foreign cost component);
(b) 100% of the foreign cost of imported equipment and materials,
including installation and/or erection of facilities; and
(c) 100% of the foreign cost of consultants services.
Environment
4.11      The project does not pose any adverse effects to the enviro ment.
The area to be flooded by the reservoir is very small (about 30,000 m ) and
uninhabited. No known archeological sites will be disturbed and no animal
species will be endangered in the reach of the river (about 22 km) that will
be substantially dried as a result of its permanent diversion. In addition,
no major natural attraction will be affected.
Project Risk
4.12      No major project risks are envisaged.  All bids received for the
project have confirmed that INDE's project construction program is attainable.
INDE agreed to cause the construction of the major project works (dam, water-
ways, earthworks and reservoir banks) to be inspected periodically in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering practice to determine whether there are any
deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the condition of such structures and
earthworks which may endanger the safety of such structures and earthworks.
1/   SOREFAME (Portugal) for the hydromechanical equipment; AEG (Germany) for
the electromechanical equipment; and SVECA (Venezuela) for the trans-
mission line.



- 15 -
4.13      Geophysicists who have studied the effects of the February, 1976,
Guatemala earthquake are in agreement that its cause appears to have been the
movement of lithospheric plates producing a massive rupture along the
Guatemalan Motagua fault (see Map). Geologic investigations at the sites of
the two proposed major hydroelectric projects (Aguacapa and Chixoy) have not
disclosed any adverse effects from the quake. The Aguacapa site is located at
about 65 km south of the Motagua fault and the Chixoy site about 50 km north
of it. Another major fault (Polochic-Chixoy-Cuilco), which runs parallel to
the Montagua fault and about 50 km north of it, passes near the site of the
proposed Chixoy dam. No relative movements with respect to the Polochic-Chixoy-
Cuilco fault had been observed and the project consultants have confirmed this
through precise geologic surveys recently carried out. In addition to these
precautions, the project has been designed to withstand the relative seismic
effects of the recent quake (surface wave magnitudes translated to the epi-
center -- about 115 km northeast of Guatemala City).
5.   Justification of the Project
Objectives
5.01      The demand for power in Guatemala is expected to be equal to the
available firm capacity by mid-1979. In order to maintain adequate service
reliability, additional capacity will need to be operational by that date.
The project will provide the additional capacity required by utilizing
Guatemala's hydroelectric resources. The commissioning of the project will
make possible a substantial reduction in thermal generation, thus reducing the
country's dependence on imported fuel. The proposed loan will allow the Bank
to participate in the financing of this needed project and, equally important,
to assist Govertment in the implementation of sector reforms and the institu-
tional strengthening of INDE.
5.02      A reliable supply of electric power is essential to Guatemala's
economic growth and the improvement of the standard of living of its popu-
lation. Industry is the largest consumer of electricity in the country
(para. 2.03). While the future needs of the largest industrial enterprises
could be met with captive generation 1/ rather than through INDE's system,
medium and small-scale industries would in many cases find this alternative
excessively costly. In addition, this approach would be wasteful of the
country's resources, since it would result in duplication of investment and
retain reliance on costly fuel. The project, therefore, is expected to
facilitate the development of medium and small-scale industrial activity in
the country.
1/   Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras Izabal, S.A. (Exmibal), a nickel
mining enterprise, installed 70 MW in thermal generating capacity in
February, 1977.



- 16 -
Load Forecast
5.03      Acting on the recommendation of the Bank's sector mission, a working
group composed of INDE and EEG personnel prepared early in 1976 a demand and
generation forecast for the 1976-90 period. This forecast was evolved by
trend analysis of electricity consumption in the country during the preceding
25 years. It assumes an average growth rate in electricity consumption of
11.1% p.a. for the country as a whole. The forecast, however, indicates a
9.2% p.a. growth rate for consumption in the central area 1/ which is high in
view of actual growth at 8.2% p.a. during the last five years. This appraisal
assumes a more realistic 8.5% p.a. average growth rate for this area, and an
average growth rate in electricity consumption for the country as a whole of
11% p.a. These assumptions result in a growth of 10% p.a. for the combined
INDE/EEG market through 1982, which is consistent with past growth and is
reasonable. Outside the central area, 2/ the market is expected to grow at an
average rate of 22% p.a. (from 120 GWh in 1975 to 473 GWh in 1982). About
half of this growth would be taken up by an isolated industrial complex in the
Atlantic area (Exmibal, see footnote on page 15).
Least-Cost Solution
5.04      The least-cost solution for expanding Guatemala's generating capac-
ity after the second steam unit at the Escuintla plant (currently under con-
struction) comes into operation in 1977, was ascertained by comparing various
alternative sequences of conventional thermal, geothermal and hydroelectric
plants. 3/ These analyses included consideration of various possible designs
for the Aguacapa project including construction in two stages and capacities
ranging from 60 MW to 140 MW. It was concluded that a sequence which included
a 90 MW single-stage development at Aguacapa, to be commissioned in 1979, was
the least-cost solution (see Annex 13) when compared to the second best
alternative sequence of projects, for all discount rates lower than 16.2%.
The largest project in the program is Chixoy, for which two basic development
schemes were examined. One in two stages: the first stage comprising a main
dam with adjacent power house (60 MW) and the second containing a smaller
1/   The Central Area is served by the interconnected INDE/EEG system and in
1975 accounted for 85% of total electricity consumption.
2/   Occidental, Oriental and Atlantic areas which are supplied by INDE, small
private and municipal utilities and self producers.
3/   Including the Atitlan project which Government dropped on ecological
grounds, arguing that the proposed diversion of polluted Salama river
waters into Lake Atlitlan, a tourist attraction, could endanger the
fauna, particularly a wild species of duck (pied-billed grebe) only found
in this lake. In addition, the natural beauty of the lake could be
jeopardized by level fluctuations from project operation, and turbidity
of its waters from the proposed diversion of the Salama.



- 17 -
downstream dam to divert the discharge from the upper plant through an 18 km
tunnel ending at a second plant (240 MW). The second scheme combined the two
stages mentioned above by eliminating the smaller dam and connecting the main
one by a 26 km tunnel to a single powerhouse (300 MW). Since both schemes
proved about equal in benefits, INDE's choice (the longest tunnel), recommended
by its consultants, was selected for the least-cost analysis which was based
on the presently available cost estimates for the project. This information
will be updated on the basis of the bids for its major components (power
tunnel and main dam) and the project's justification reassessed at the
time of appraisal of the next Bank loan to INDE.
5.05      The transmission system arrangement as well as sizing and siting of
substantions proposed by INDE and its consultants is adequate for the system
and within acceptable levels of voltage regulation, losses and reliability.
On completion of the project, the ratio of step-down substation capacity to
maximum demand at INDE's points of delivery in the Central system would have
increased from a relatively low 1.10 to a more adequate level of 1.25. In the
remaining systems served by INDE alone, the ratio would range from 1.25 to 1.5,
which is satisfactory. EEG has programmed the expansion of its distribution
substations in coordination with INDE's substation expansions and the adopted
incremental transformation capacities in EEG' s system would provide cor-
respondingly adequate reserves and reliability. The envisaged improvement in
reserve capacity indicates that reliability would be substantially improved
without overinvestment.
Return on Investment
5.06      As shown in detail in Annex 13, the project's benefits to the
country have been compared with its costs. This comparison equates the
streams of costs associated with the project through its assumed life of about
40 years and those of the related subtransmission and distribution system
investments (not part of the project) with the estimated benefits as measured
by the forecast revenues from sale of electricity at the retail level and the
savings in fuel. At the agreed 1977-79 tariff level (US$0.060/kWh), the return
is 14.9%. An increase in the project cost of 10% 1/ would lower this rate to
13%. Assuming energy sales were 10% lower, the rate of return would then be
12.7%. These rates of return indicate that electricity prices will, on
average, be higher than incremental system costs, suggesting that wasteful
use of electricity will be avoided.
5.07      The above calculations probably understate the benefits of the
project as the electricity rates, which were used as a measure of benefits,
may not fully consider the indirect benefits to industry and commerce, whose
production and employment depend on the reliable electricity supply, nor the
social benefits of residential and public uses. However, even on the basis of
1/   Higher values were not considered because project costs have been based
on bid prices for these specific works.



- 18 -
present tariffs, the range of rates of return obtained for the project com-
pares favorably with the opportunity cost of capital for Guatemala (11%).
5.08      In order to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facilities, and
unnecessary investment, assurances were obtained from Government that it would
take all actions necessary to bring about the economic operation of all gener-
ating and transmission facilities in the interconnected system, and that expan-
sion of these facilities will be based on economically justifiable programs.
6.   Finances
Background
6.01      This appraisal takes a sector (INDE/EEG consolidated) approach.
Because the main market for INDE's generation is served through EEG's distri-
bution system, individual company analysis provides only a partial and less
meaningful evaluation of financial performance than that which is obtained on
a consolidated basis. Moreover, it is essential to assure financing not only
for INDE's generation expansion program but for EEG's distribution expansion
program as well, both through an adequate blend of consumer-based resources,
borrowings and capital investment by Government. The mobilization of a
reasonable proportion of consumer-based resources relative to the overall
expansion investment depends, in turn, upon the development and implementation
of a coordinated, economically and financially sound sector tariff policy.
Accordingly, Government intends to base its power pricing policy on the
long-term costs of production and financing needs of the sector, and proposes
to meet with its own capital investment the short-term financing shortfalls
arising from the need to carry out a substantial hydroelectric expansion
program to alleviate the country's dependence on imported fuel. This policy
is appropriate considering the special circumstances of the sector explained
in Section 2 of this report. It is also consistent with the findings of the
project performance audit of INDE's first and second power projects
(para. 1.01) and of the August 1975 sector mission (paras. 2.06-12). Annex 14
contains actual and forecast financial statements for the sector, INDE and
EEG, together with details on their finances, which supplement the following
summary analysis.
Past Earnings and Financial Position
6.02      The power sector's financial performance in 1971-73 was satisfactory.
It achieved an average rate of return of 9.7% on historically-valued assets, a
high debt-service coverage ratio (4.3 times) and a substantial contribution to
its modest investment program (51%).
6.03      This satisfactory performance, however, resulted from the high
earnings achieved by EEG, which more than offset INDE's poor performance.
During the same (1971-73) period, INDE's rate of return on historically-valued
assets averaged 5.3% only, which in turn resulted from its not charging
adequate bulk tariffs to EEG, its principal customer.



- 19 -
6.04      The sector's financial performance deteriorated in 1974-75 due
mainly to the sharp rise in fuel costs during those two years, which were not
fully passed on to the ultimate consumers. The sector's rate of return on
historically-valued assets averaged 6.3%; INDE's, 4.3%. While debt service
coverage remained satisfactory (2.2 times), the sector was only able to
finance 12% of its investment program from internal resources despite the fact
that it did not undertake any major investment in hydroelectric generation to
counteract the increase in fuel costs.
6.05      Sector earnings are expected to improve somewhat in 1976 after
tariff increases which should result in unit revenues 60% above those realized
in 1973. The sector is expected to achieve a 7.2% rate of return on histori-
cally-valued assets. However, these higher earnings are expected to be more
than offset by increased debt service and investment requirements are expected
to rise by 170% because of the initiation of INDE's ambitious 1976-82 expansion
program. Thus, reduction in the sector's debt service coverage ratio to 1.2
times and a further decline in its contribution to investment to 8% are
expected.
6.06      Though the revenue requirement covenant of the second Bank loan
(Loan No. 545-GU dated June 28, 1968) provided that INDE's assets should be
valued and revalued according to principles acceptable to the Bank, the then
prevailing extremely low level of price inflation in Guatemala 1/ and relative
stability of international prices for power equipment did not make this a
crucial issue and assets have not been revalued. However, in view of recent
inflation Government and INDE recognize that a review of power sector asset
values is now required. Accordingly, Government and INDE agreed to carry out
such a review, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and on an
agreed schedule (Annex 4).
6.07      The sector has consistently maintained a low debt/equity ratio
(32/68 at the end of 1975) as a result of the financing of a sizeable propor-
tion of INDE's investments through equity contributions by Government.
Nevertheless, excessive overdue accounts receivable from public agencies
(especially municipalities and municipal entities) impose somewhat of a
financial burden on both EEG and INDE. This situation should improve as a
result of a recent favorable judgement obtained by EEG against the municipal
water company in Guatemala city, which owes it more than two-years' consump-
tion. Notwithstanding, Government agreed to take all necessary measures to
reduce the sector's accounts receivable from public agencies to a maximum of
60 days' consumption by the end of 1977.
Financing Plans
6.08      INDE's and the sector's (INDE/EEG consolidated) capital investment
requirements and proposed financing plans during the disbursement period of
the proposed Bank loan (1977-79) are summarized below:
1/   Less than 1% p.a. in the period 1969-72.



- 20 -
Million Q (or US$)           % of
INDE         SECTOR       Sector Total
Investment Requirements
Construction program
Aguacapa                           89.4           89.4            24
Chixoy                            141.5          141.5            37
Other                              93.1          106.3            28
Construction overhead               7.3            8.3             2
331.3          345.5            91
Interest during construction         32.8           32.8             9
364.1          378.3           100
Million Q (or USS)           % of
INDE         SECTOR       Sector Total
Financing Plans
Net internal cash generation         41.9           57.0            15
Borrowings:
For Aguacapa:
Proposed IBRD Loan             55.0           55.0             15
Other                          32.2            32.2             8
For Chixoy                        131.7          131.7            35
For other projects                59.5            59.5            16
278.4          278.4            74
Grants                                 .9             .9            nil
Government capital investment        44.6           44.6            12
Additions to cash                    (1.7)          (2.6)            (1)
364.1          378.3           100
6.09      INDE would be responsible for US$364.1 million, or 96% of the
sector's investment.  The agreed upon retail tariff level increases (para.
6.12) and bulk tariff arrangement (para. 6.15) should provide consumer-based
resources sufficient to cover rapidly increasing debt service requirements and
provide self-financing for 15% of the sector's large investment requirements.
Borrowings (drawdowns) totalling US$278.4 million would cover an additional
74% of the financing requirements. These consist of:
(a) US$79.0 million from loans already secured from IDB (US$41.8
million), CABEI (US$4.4 million) and the FIV (US$32.8 million)
for on-going and continuing works, including partial financing
for the Chixoy project;



- 21 -
(b)  US$87.2 million for Aguacapa, including the proposed Bank loan
(US$55.0 million), CABEI funds (US$2.2 million) and FIV funds
(US$30.0 million); and
(c)  US$112.2 million of future borrowings for Chixoy and "future
works" (para. 4.02, D). These future borrowings would include
US$47.9 million of drawdowns of a loan which the Government
and INDE have requested the Bank to consider as part of the
financing of the Chixoy project (para. 4.01-03).
The US$2.2 million of CABEI funds for the Aguacapa project are part of a
US$5.3 million loan which INDE has requested from that institution. The
US$30.0 million of FIV funds have also been requested by Government, and FIV
has already declared the Aguacapa project eligible for its financing. More-
over, both CABEI and FIV managements have indicated to the Bank their inten-
tion to recommend financing of the Aguacapa project by their institutions.
However, to preclude the possibility of delays in the availability of these
funds, Government agreed to make or cause to be made loans to INDE for the
project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in the aggregate
amount of US$35 million. Receipt of assurances that INDE will obtain loans
for the project aggregating US$17 million (the amount required in 1977) on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan. The Bank loan for the Aguacapa project has been assumed
to bear interest at 8.5% and to be repayable over 17 years (including 3-1/2
years of grace). Details of all the above-mentioned borrowings are given in
Attachments F, G and H of Annex 14.
6.10      The US$0.9 million of grants are from the German Federal Republic
for the master plan studies (para. 2.09). The US$44.6 million of Government
capital investment in INDE represents the residual financing required to carry
out the sector's full investment program and would provide the remaining 12%
of the financing requirements. Of this amount, US$26 million is required for
Aguacapa, Chixoy and other committed projects. Government agreed to provide
the annual amounts included in the financing plan as its capital contribution
for these projects. Under the arrangement mentioned in para. 6.17(a), the
Bank will be in a position to review future projects and their financing
before they can be initiated. Lastly, the financing plans assume that EEG
will not be required to pay dividends beyond May, 1977 (when its concession
expires). However, should EEG continue to pay dividends, they would accrue
largely to Government, which agreed to reinvest in INDE any such cash divi-
dends. The financing plans are reasonable.
Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.11      Several issues had to be addressed in developing an interim 1/ sound
tariff policy for the sector, namely: (i) the magnitude and timing of the
1/   The carrying out of a comprehensive tariff study is provided for under
this loan (para. 2.20),but its recommendations and Government's position
on them are not expected before January 1978 (Annex 4).



- 22 -
investment program, which calls for large capital outlays in overlapping
projects through 1980 and then declines sharply until 1985; (ii) the anti-
cipated savings in operating costs arising from a drastic reduction in fuel-
burning generation (from 70% of the total in 1975 to an estimated 5% in 1982);
(iii) the conflict between long-term economic considerations, which indicate
that tariffs should not be set so high as to result in uneconomic utilization
of the large investment program, and the sector's short-term financing needs;
(iv) the need to ensure the maintenance of the financial viabilities of
inherently different entities; and (v) the uncertainty relating to future
price levels, particularly regarding plant and equipment. The agreed upon
tariff policies outlined below strike an appropriate balance between these
factors, and are consistent with Government's policy of offsetting through
capital contributions and loans the short-term financing shortfalls attribu-
table to the need to implement a large investment program to reduce the
country's dependence on imported fuels.
6.12       In the absence of a proper valuation of sector assets (para. 6.06),
Government and INDE agreed that contribution to expansion would be the appro-
priate criterion to determine the adequacy of sector revenues, and that a 15%
average contribution to the sector's large capital expenditures in 1977-79
would be the required level to maintain ITDE's and EEG's financial viabilities
(para. 6.14). The financial projections indicate that to achieve this result
the retail tariff levels of INDE and EEG would need to be raised in 1977 such
that they would yield additional revenues totalling US$25.4 million during
that period (1977-79). The projections also indicate that should actual
capital expenditures and operating costs be substantially as anticipated, no
further tariff level adjustments would be required during the project con-
struction period. Government and INIDE agreed that (a) the adjustment of
sector rates in accordance with the above criterion will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan; and (b) the adjusted sector rates
would not be reduced prior to project completion.  In addition, fuel cost
increases will be automatically passed on to the consumers.
6.13       To protect sector finances against unexpected increases in construc-
tion expenditures and/or operating costs, Government and INDE agreed that
sector retail tariffs would be set at levels sufficient to cover 16% of the
consolidated sector construction expenditures in 1977, 13% in 1978, 16% in
1979 and 18% until completion of the Aguacapa project.  Government and INDE
also agreed that after project completion sector retail tariffs would be
maintained at levels sufficient to earn a rate of return of at least 9% on the
consolidated sector revalued net fi%ed assets in operation. Consistent with
the undertakings in this and the preceding paragraph, Government agreed to
cause EEG thirough a subsidiary contract to take, inter alia, the necessary
action in respect of its own tariffs and asset revaluation.  Execution of this
subsidiary contract, which is to be entered into by Government, INDE, and EEG
on terms satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan.



- 23 -
6.14      The financial projections show that the agreed upon retail tariffs
would provide an adequate debt service coverage (averaging 1.5 times in
1977-79, see Key Financial Ratios, Attachment A of Annex 14). The sector's
debt/equity ratio would rise from an estimated 35/65 in 1976 to a high of
59/41 in 1980 and decline thereafter. And the sector's rate of return on
historically-valued net assets in operation would average 14.8% in 1977-79.
Thus, the prospective sector finances are satisfactory. Should Government
adopt the recommendation of the sector reorganization commission that INDE
absorb EEG (para. 2.15), the sector's projections would apply to the "new
INDE".
6.15      However, since a decision on sector reorganization is not expected
before June 1977, individual projections of INDE and EEG as presently consti-
tuted were also prepared and are included in Annex 14. They are based on the
assumption that INDE's bulk tariffs to EEG would be adjusted annually to
transfer to INDE any funds generated by EEG in excess of the latter's require-
ments for operations, debt service, working capital and construction. This
bulk tariff arrangement would permit sector borrowings to be associated
directly with the major generation and transmission works to be carried out by
INDE (which are likely to elicit the best terms from suppliers), while allowing
total self-financing of EEG's distribution investment requirements. Government
and INDE agreed to implement this tariff policy. Moreover, to ensure adher-
ence to the projected capital investment and financing plans, Government
agreed to seek the Bank's concurrence before allowing EEG to increase its
capital expenditure (including construction overhead) beyond US$4.0 million in
1977, US$4.5 million in 1978 and US$5.75 million yearly thereafter until com-
pletion of the Aguacapa project; the Bank's agreement would depend upon a
finding that the proposed additional expenditure is economically justified and
that funds on suitable terms are available to finance it without reducing the
funds that would otherwise be available to INDE through the bulk tariff.
6.16      Since the agreed upon retail tariff policy (paras. 6.12-13) and
Government capital contributions (para. 6.10) ensure satisfactory financing of
the sector as a whole, and the bulk tariff policy (para. 6.15) provides
sufficient assurance that INDE would achieve the projected amounts of internal
generation, no specific revenue covenant has been provided for INDE, the
borrower.
6.17      Finally, and in a manner similar to the case of the previous Bank
loans, INDE agreed to seek the Bank's concurrence before:
(a) undertaking prior to the completion of the Aguacapa project
any project (other than those listed in paras. 4.02 (A) and
(C)) involving an expenditure in excess of US$1.0 million;
and
(b) incurring any debt unless its most recent 12-month internal
cash generation is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any future fiscal year.



- 24 -
7. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01      Agreements were reached during negotiations on the following princi-
pal points:
(a) With Government and INDE that:
(i) a tariff study will be carried out under satisfactory terms
of reference (para. 2.20);
(ii)  the value of the power sector's fixed assets will be
reviewed (para. 6.06);
(iii) the power sector's retail tariffs will be set at levels
sufficient to produce a 15% consolidated contribution to
investment in 1977-79, and earn a 9% return on revalued net
fixed assets in operation after completion of the project
(para. 6.13);
(iv)  INDE's bulk tariff to EEG will be set annually at levels
sufficient to transfer to INDE any funds available to EEG
in excess of EEG's requirements for operations, debt service,
working capital and capital expenditures (para. 6.15).
(b)  With Government that:
(i) all action will be taken to ensure the economic operation
and expansion of generating and transmission facilities in
the interconnected system (para. 5.08);
(ii)  accounts receivable by the power sector from other public
sector agencies will be reduced (para. 6.07);
(iii) Government will make equity contributions to INDE in
the amounts required to carry out the committed invest-
ment program (para. 6.10);
(iv)  any increase in fuel prices will be passed on to the
ultimate consumer of electricity, and adjusted sector
tariffs will not be reduced prior to project completion
(para. 6.12); and
(v) EEG's construction expenditures will not be increased with-
out the Bank's concurrence until the project shall have been
completed (para. 6.15).
(c)  With INDE that:
(i) no company will be created or taken over by INDE if such
action would adversely affect INDE's finances or the effi-
ciency of its management (para. 2.15);



- 25 -
(ii) planning and finance departments will be organized and a
program for improving administration, personnel, planning
and finance would be put into effect (para. 3.03);
(iii)  INDE will not undertake any major project without the
Bank's concurrence until the project shall have been
completed (para. 6.17(a); and
(iv) INDE will not borrow without the Bank's concurrence if
its net revenues shall be less than 1.5 times the maxi-
mum debt service requirements for any future year
(para. 6.17(b)).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a)  receipt of assurances that INDE will be granted loans aggregating
US$17 million in 1977 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 6.09);
(b)  adjustment of power rates to the levels required to comply with
the revenue requirement covenant (para. 6.13); and
(c)  execution of a subsidiary contract between Government, INDE
and EEG on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.13).
7.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$55
million for a term of seventeen years, including a grace period of three and
a half years.
May 4, 1977






ANNEX 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION - (INDE)
Energy Consumption 1/
1960               1970                1973               1975
CENTRAL A.IERICA 2/
All Forms of Energy             10
Gross consumption (kcal x 10  )                         3,773              6,528               7,938
Average annual3growth (Z)                                          5.6                6.7
Population (10  inhabitants)       7                   12,097              16,469             18,086
Per capita consumption (kcal x 10 )                     0.312              0.396               0.439
Gross consumption by primary source (x)                     -
Petroleum derivatives                                    42                  47                 52
Hydro                                                     7                  12                 11
Total commercial                                       49                 59                  63
Other 2/                                                 51                 41                  37
Total                                                 100                100                 100
of which:  Imported                                  42                 47                  52
Domestic                                 58                 53                  48
Electric Power
Gross consumption (GWh)                                 1,070              3,205               4,337
Average annual growth (Z)                                         11.6               10.6
Share of gross energy consumption (Z)                     8.5                14.7               16.4
Consumption per capita (kWh)                             88.5              194.6               239.8
GUATEMALA
All Forms of Energy             10
Gross consumption (kcal x 10  )                         1,124              1,655               1,967
Average annual3growth (Z)                                          3.9                5.9
Population (10  inhabitants)        7                   3,958              5,288               5,751
Per capital consumption (kcal x 10 )                    0.284              0.313               0.342
Gross consumption by primary source (%)
Petroleum derivatives                                    41                  43                 49
Hydro                                                     4                   6                  5
Total commercial                                       45                 49                  54
Other 2!                                                 55                  51                 46
Total                                                 100                100                 100
of which:  Imported                                  41                 43                  49
Domestic                                 59                 57                  51
Electric Power 3/
Gross consumption (GWh)                                   201                541                 729                958
Average annual growth (Z)                                   .    10.4                10.2                13.9
Share of gross energy consumption (Z)                     5.4                9.8                11.1                 n.a.
Consumption per capita (GWh)                               51                 102                126                 165
1/  Basic data from "Anuario Estadistico de Energia para Centro America y Panama, 1950-1973," Economic Commission for
Latin America, United Nations' population E/CEPAL/CCE/SC.5/108 dated February 1976.
2/  Includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
3/  Public utilities only.  Excludes electricity generated by self-producers, which is estimated at about 180 GV'h in 1975.
February 1977



ANNEX 2
AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
POWER SECTOR INSTALLED CAPACITY IN 1975
Interconnected           Hydro          Thermal         Total          %
System:
INDE                      96.2           61.9           158.1         48.5
EEC                        -             51.5            51.5         16.0
Isolated plants1/          6.9            9.3            16.2          5.0
Self-producers            18.3           81.7           100.0         30.5
Total Sector          121.4          204.4           325.8        100.0
,' or Total            37.3           62.7           100.0
1, includes INDE's plants, private, and municipal utilities.
Februarv 1977



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Terms of Reference of the Sector Organization Commission
(a)  Objectives: to perform the required studies for the reorganization of
the sector at the national level and prior to expiration of EEG's
concession. The studies should lead to the formulation of an
institutional structure covering generation, transmission and distribution
functions that would adequately meet sector requirements and more efficiently
promote the socio-economic development of the country.
(b)  Legal Aspects:  Review of current legislation related to public services
and water uses in order to recommend modifications, if necessary.
(c)  Existing Utilities: Analyze performance of existing national utilities,
covering inter alia:
(i)  legal aspects;
(ii) administration;
(iii) finances;
(iv)  labor; and
(v)  expansion programs.
(d)  Utilities in other Latin American Countries: Perform an assessment of some
of the existing sector organizations in these countries and their effect
on sector development.
(e)  Organization Structure: Define the most suitable sector organization
considering the following structures:
(i)  one utility to cover the sector;
(ii) two utilities - one for bulk supply (generation and transmission)
and the other for distribution;
(iii) several utilities - one bulk supplier and several regional distribution
entities.
For each of the above structures, the institutional arrangement and ownership
aspects would be examined.
(f) Recommendations: The commission's recommendations would include inter alia:
(i)  the proposed sector organization;
(ii) mode of implementation to achieve the above (i);
(iii) regulation aspects;
(iv) function of the new organization with respect to other existing
government institutions and agencies;
(v)  financial measures required to achieve the sector reorganization.
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Schedule for INDE's Organization Strengthening and Studies
Date when action is
expected to be taken
1. Personnel
1.1  Hire consultant for personnel planning (hiring,
training, redundancy, career development)                    5/31/77
1.2  Terms of reference for personnel improvement
program sent to the Bank                                     6/30/77
1.3  Completion of staff improvement program preparation          9/30/77
1.4  Completion of outline on policy recommendations
for the manpower plan                                        12/31/77
1.5  Completion of the personnel manual                           12/31/77
1.6  Completion of manpower plan and corresponding
budget                                                       2/78
1.7  Full operation of new personnel management
system                                                       12/31/78
2. Planning
2.1 Hire one experienced financial analyst for the
financial analysis unit of the planning group                5/31/77
2.2 Complete implementation of new planning
department                                                   6/30/78
3. Revaluation of Assets
3.1 Send to the Bank terms of reference of consultants
for revaluation of assets                                    5/31/77
3.2  Hire consultants                                             30  days after
receipt of Bank's
concurrence.
3.3  Send to the Bank consultant's report                         5 months after
effective date
4. Accounting, Budgeting and Treasury Functions
4.1  Hire financial manager to head new financial
department                                                   6/30/77
4.2  Send to Bank terms of reference of consultants
for improvement on all accounting functions                  8/11/77
4.3  Hire consultants                                             10/31/77
4.4  Send to the Bank consultants' report                         4/30/78
4.5  Complete implementation of new financial
department                                                   6/30/78



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Date Agreed
5. Tariffs
5.1 Send to the Bank terms of reference for tariff
study                                                        5/31/77
5.2  Hire consultants                                             7/31/77
5.3  Send to the Bank consultants' report                         1/30/78
6. Administration
6.1 Complete implementation of simplified procedure
to handle correspondence and provide effective
control system                                               5/31/77
6.2 Complete preliminary designs of INDE's new
office building                                              1/31/78
6.3  Complete building construction                               1/31/80
March 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF THE AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION - (INDE)
POWER MARKET
A. Estimated Consumption and Access to Supply in 1975
Guatemala City      Rest of        Total
and Environs 1/    Country 2/   Country
Total electricity sales (GWh)                    730             137            867
Residential sales (GWh)                          192               39           231
Total No. of customers                       157,000         106,000       263,000
No. of residential customers                 132,000          91,000       223,000
Population in service area                 1,600,000       4,100,000    5,700,000
No. of households in service area            250,000         630,000       880,000
% of industrial sales                             45               39            44
% of residential sales                            26               29            27
% of other sales                                  29               32            29
Access to Supply Indicators
Total consumption per capita (kWh)               456               33           152
% of electrified households                       53               14            25
Consumption per household (kWh)                  768               62           263
Consumption per electrified household
(kWh)                                         1,454             429         1,035
1/ EEG's concession area, which includes the Departments of Escuintla, Guatemala,
and Sacatepequez.
2/ INDE's distribution area, which consists of the remaining 19 Departments. It
includes INDE's sales to consumers and estimated sales by private and municipal
utilities under the assumption that the breakdown of the latter's sales by
consumer category is similar to INDE's.
February 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Sales to Final Consumers (GWh)
YEAR                    EEG            INDE                            1'
Sub-Total      Other-'   Total
1975 (Actual)          730             117           847           3         850
1976                   723             142           865           5         870
1977                  859              149          1008          39        1047
1978                  932              190          1122          41        1163
1979                 1011              228          1239          51        1290
1980                 1097              270          1367          65        1432
1981                 1191              311          1502          89        1591
1982                 1292              355          1647         118        1765
1/ Isolated municipalities and captive industrial plants.
February 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICAION (INDE)
INDE AND EEG TARIFFS
INDE
The INDE tariff structure in effect as of July 31, 1976
covers 10 categories of consumers as shown below. The main categories
of the tariff schedule are:
General residential and commercial
Tariff for small industrial and agricultural consumers
Tariff for large industrial and agricultural consumers
Restricted use tariff for high use industrial and agricultural
consumers (with demand over 225 kW).
The remaining 6 categories include sales to small electric companies,
mills, public lighting, temporary service, seasonal service and restricted
seasonal service.
Principal features of INDE's tariffs:
Tariff No. 1 Residential and Commercial
$0.60 per kWh for the first 7 kWh or less
$0.07 per kWh for the next 33 kWh
$0.05 per kWh for the next 80 kWh
$0.04 per kWh for the next 120 kWh
$0.032 per kWh per consumption over 120 kWh
Tariff No. 2 Small Industrial and Agricultural Consumers
Charge for maximum demand-:
$11.00 for the first 4 kW
$2.75 for each additional kW



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Charge for energy:
The first 50 kWh per kW are free
$0.03 per kWh for the next 100 kWh per kW
$0.02 per kWh for the remaining kWh
Tariff No. 3 High Consumers - Industrial & Agricultural
Charge for maximum demand:
$138.00 for the first 50 kW
$2.75 for each additional kW
Charge for energy:
$200.00 for the first 10,000 kWh or less
$0.02 per kWh for the next 10,000 kWh
$0.0125 per kWh for additional kWh
Tariff No. 4 High Consumers with restricted use - Industrial and Agricultural
Charge for maximum demand
$2.75 per kW used during hours of restriction
$1.00 per kW used during hours of non-restriction
Charge for energy:
$0.02 per kWh for the first 20,000 kWh
$0.0125 per kWh for the next 150 kWh per kW billed at $2.75
$0.0115 per kWh for remaining KWh
(The restricted hours are 5 out of each 24 as determined by INDE).
Tariff No. 5 Small Distribution Companies
Charge for maximum demand:
$2.75 per kW
Charge for energy:
$0.025 per kWh for the first 100 kWh per kW
$0.015 per kWh for the next 200 kWh per kW
$0.0125 per kWh for the remaining kWh



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Tariff No. 6 for mills:
$7.00 for the first 200 kWh or less
$0.035 per kWh for the remaining kWh
Tariff No. 7 Public Lighting
$0.12 monthly per installed watt with right of use from 5PM
until 6AM the following day
Tariff No. 8 Temporary Service
Tariffs 1, 2 or 3 will be applied according to the specific
case and will be increased by 50%
Tariff No. 9 Seasonal Tariff
Tariffs 2 and 3 will be applied according to specific case as follows:
Tariff 2 30,000 kWh per season
Tariff 3 204,000 kWh per season
Tariff No. 10 Seasonal Tariff restricted to 20 days (with meter)
$2.00 for the first 10 kWh
$0.10 per kWh for the next 30 kWh
$0.07 per kWh for the next 80 kWh
$0.06 per kWh for the next 120 kWh
$0.05 per kWh for the remaining kWh
(The minimum bill is $2.00)
EEG
After an increase of average $0.004 per kWh in December 1975 the
average price per kWh by class of consumer is as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Price per kWh   No. of Consumers
Residential                                  $0.059           128,637
Commercial                                    0.0586           24,931
Industrial                                    0.0499            1,073
Government                                    0.0549            1,324
Municipal                                     0.0411              699
Public Utilities                              0.0492                2
Total                                     $0.0-52          156,666
Note: The tariff increase was not applied to residential consumption of less than
200 kWh.



APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
SECTOR ENERGY REQUIREMENTS
(GWh)
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
Central System               812       864        960      1042       1131       1229       1335       1449
Occidental, Oriental
and Atlantic                123       132        202       251        298        347        394        449
Sub-total               955       996       1162     1293        1429       1576       1729      1898
1/                        3          5        39        41          51        65         89        118
Other-
TOTAL                   958      1001       1201     1334        1480       1641       1818      2016
1/ Includes isolated municipal utilities and private captive plants.
PlM
ou    1
February 1977



POWER SECTOR
NATIONAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM PLLS ATLANTIC SYSTEM
ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCE
1975      1976       1977        1978        1979        1980       1981        1982
(Actual)
ENERGY REQUIREMENTS (GWh)
INDE                                                    117       142         149         190        228         270         311        355
ERG                                                     730       723         859         932       1011        1097        1191       1292
Losses                                                  108       131         154         171        190         209         227        251
Total                                                   955       996        1162        1293       1429        1576        1729       1898
DEMAND (MW)               -Capacity/    185                           190         Z21        246         272         300         329        361
PLANTS                    Installed  Firm   (GWh)
INDE (Existing)
Hydro (various)               96       55      293         283       293         293        293         293         293        293         293
Thermal:
Escuintla I (Steam)        33                           268        251        208         241         250         288        288          -
Escuintla I (Gas)          25                            40         63         -           -           -           -          _           _
Escuintla II (Gas)         15                            37         62         -           -           _           _          _           _
San Felipe (Diesel)         2.5                          15         20         -           -           2/         -           - 1
Melendres (Diesel)           1.3                          11        11          -          -           2/          -          -           -
Puerto Barrios              3.0                          12         13         13          14          T4          25         26          27
165.8
EEG: (Existing)
La Laguna (Steam)             34                           230       238         190        199         127         115          82         -
La Laguna (Gas)               11                            50        33          -           -          -           -           -          _
La Laguna (Diesel)             4                             4         5          -           -          2/          -           _          _
La Castellana (Diesel)         5                             5         7          -           -          2/          -           _
54                                                                         -
INDE (Future)
Escuintla II (Steam)          53                            -         -          270        397         420         420         420         -
Escuintla III (Gas)           25                            -         -           99          74         16          15          45          38
Escuintla IV  (Gas)           25                                 -                89          75         17          -           45          35
Palin II (Hydro)               5       2.5      25          -                     -           -          -           25          25          25
Aguacapa (Hydro)              90       90      395          -         -           -           -         277         395         395         395
Chixoy (Hydro)              300       240    1720                            -                           -           -           -          860
Moyuta (Geothermal)           30                                      -           -           -           -          -          110         225
528
TOTAL GENERATION                                            955       996        1162       1293        1429        1576        1729        1898
INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW)                                     220       220         331         331        402         402         432         732
Largest Unit (MW)                                         33        33          53          53         53          53          53          60
Firm Capacity (MW)                                      187        187         278         278        349         349         379         672
1/  Average annual.
2/  Retired.
March 1977



ANINEX 8
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COSTS
A. Description
The project comprises the principal components described below:
(a) Generation:
Construction of the Aguacapa hydroelectric project involving:
(i) Concrete gravity diversion dam (90,000 m3) in the Aguacapa
river, a tributary of the Maria Linda river;
(ii) regulating pond (300,000 mi3), downstream of the dam and on
the left abutment;
(iii) concrete lined power tunnel, 2.5 m net inside diameter, 12 km
in length (8 headings, longest reach between adits 4.5 m);
(iv) steel penstock 2.5 m average inside diameter and 3.7 km long;
and
(v) power station with 3 x 30 MW horizontally mounted generating
units (555 m gross head).
(b) Transmission:
(i) construction of step-up transformation facilities (13.8/230 kV,
3 x,, 37.5 MVA) at the power plant;
(ii) construction of a switching station (230 kV) at about 500 m
downstream from the power plant;
(iii) construction of a single-circuit transmission line at 230 kV
to the existing Escuintla substation (23 km);
(c) Management consultant's services (about 36 man-months) for personnel
program and finances.
B. Costs
A detailed estimate of project costs (June 1976 prices) appears on page 2 of
this Annex. Management consultant costs are shown on page 3.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
-------million of US$ and Q----
B.  Costs.                                        Foreign       Local        Total
Infrastructure                                       -            1.30        1.30
Civil works
Diversions                                     1.20         2.00         3.20
Dam                                            8.00         6.00        14.00
Power tunnel                                  9.78          9.60        19.38
Penstock installation                          0.10          2.80        2.90
Power station                                  1.00          2.85        3.85
Substation                                    0.10          0.40         0.50
Sub-total civil works                        20.18         23.65        43.83
Electromechanical Equipment
Turbines and Valves                            3.30         0.20         3.50
Generators                                     4.00         0.20         4.20
Transformers                                   1.00          -           1.00
Substation apparatus                          2.00          0.10         2.10
Auxiliary electrical equipment                 2.20         0.20         2.40
Auxiliary mechanical equipment                 0.70         0.14         0.84
Sub-total electromechanical equipment        13.20          0.84        14.04
Ancillary mechanical equipment
Penstock and surge chamber                     6.80         0.80         7.60
Gates and hoists                              0.97          0.20         1.17
Tunnel lining                                 0.92          0.30         1.22
Sub-total ancillary mechanical equipment    8.69            1.30         9.99
Transmission Line                                   0.87          0.21         1.08
Physical contingencies                              3.37          2.61         5.98
Sub-total  (Direct Cost)                     46.31         29.91        76.22
Engineering and administration  1/                  4.50          4.74         9.24
Management consultants' services 2/                 0.25           -           0.25
Price contingencies                                 8.39          5.90       14.29
Total Cost                                   59.45         40.55       100.002'
1/ Financed by CABEI
2/ For details see page 3 of this Annex.
3/ Includes US$0.2 million for engineering spent in 1975.
October 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
1. Management Consultant Services
1.1 Base Costs:
-  Salary and overhead                          US$4,700
-  Living allowance at US$50/day                    1,500
US$6,200 / man-month
1.2 Revaluation of Assets:
-  6 man-months                                US$37,200
-  4 round trips at US$450                          1,800
-  contingencies                                    2,000
Sub-total                                             US$41,000
1.3  Accounting (data processing):
-  8 man-months                                US$49,600
-  6 round trips at US$450                          2,700
-  contingencies                                    2,700
Sub-total                                             US$55,000
1.4 Personnel Program
-  22 man-month                               US$136,400
-  8 round-trips at US$450                          3,600
-  contingencies                                   14,000
Sub-total                                            US$154,000
TOTAL                                                US$250,000



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
CHIXOY HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
A. Description
The project comprises the principal components described below:
(a) Generation:
(i) rockfill dam 105 m high with a volume of 2.7 million cubic
meters that would form a reservoir with a volume of 424
million cubic meters. The dam would be located about 57.5 km
upstream of the confluence of the Chixoy and Quixal rivers
(80 km North of Guatemala City).
(ii) power tunnel 25.6 km long, concrete lined, 4.8 m in diameter,
to develop a gross head of 515 m; and
(iii) surface power station with 5 x 60 MW generating units.
(b) Transmission:
(i) step-up substation (16 x 25 MVA, 13.8/230 kV); and
(ii) double circuit transmission line to Guatemala City (120 km).
B. Costs
A summary estimate of project costs (June 1976 prices) appears below:
---million of US$ and Q-----
Foreign      Local       Total
Infrastructure                                    5.57        13.15        18.72
Land and rights                                                0.71         0.71
Civil works:
Diversion, main dam and spillway           17.71        10.13        27.84
Power tunnel and power station             49.90        31.11        81.01
Electromechanical, hydromechanical, ancillary
mechanical and electrical equipment              32.54         3.61        36.15
Transmission system                              10.21         1.61       11.82
Engineering and administration                   13.30         7.61       20.91
Physical contingencies                           14.46         7.62       22.08
Sub-total                                 143.69        75.55       219.24
Price contingencies                              33.65        20.55       54.20
Total                                     177.34        96.10       273.44
October 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Project Implementation Schedule
1.  Loan effectiveness                                              Completion Date
Government approval of documents                               June 15, 1977
2. Electromechanical equipment
(a)  contract signing                                          March 31, 1977
(b)  completion of installation                                May 31, 1979
3. Transmission system
(a)  contract signing                                          March 31, 1977
(b)  completion of installation                                May 3, 1979
4. Hydromechanical equipment
(a)  contract signing                                          March 31, 1977
(b)  completion of installation                                May 3, 1979
5. Civil works
(a)  issue bidding documents                                   January 1, 1977
(b)  bid opening                                               March 3, 1977
(c)  issue letter of intent                                    May 31, 1977
(d)  completion of works                                       June 30, 1979
6. Management consultants services
(a) personnel upgrading program
(i)  hire individual consultant for planning              May 31, 1977
(ii) terms of reference for preparing personnel
plan, sent to IBRD for comment                       June 30, 1977
(iii)  personnel plan sent to IBRD for comment              November 30, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
(b) hire consultants
(i)  asset revaluation                                    July 1, 1977
(ii)  accounting and data processing                       October 1, 1977
(iii)  tariff study                                         July 30, 1977
7. Sector reorganization
(a)  Completion of sector reorganization                       December 31, 1979
March 1977






9 9~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0    a C      n    > m r              £ 90   r
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H~~                                                                                                                                              . J) 
al 7!Cx                                                                     9-'-'
---------             -._
--           --    --    -
gi;l~9 
9  9                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






ANNEX 11
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Assumptions:
Loan approval and signing:                                   March 1977
Effective date:                                              June 1977
Closing date:                                                December 1979
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                DISBURSEMENTS                 CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
AND SEMESTER                    DURING SEMESTER               AT END OF SEMESTER
… ______----…in million of US$---------------------
1977
(Ending June 30, 1977)
June 30, 1977                 9.0                               9.0
1978
(Ending June 30, 1978)
December 31, 1977           14.4                               23.4
June 30, 1978               10.0                               33.4
1979
(Ending June 30, 1979)
December 31, 1978            8.2                               41.6
June 30, 1979                8.0                              49.6
1980
(Ending June 30, 1980)
December 31, 1979            2.4                               55.0
February 1977



ANNEX 12
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A.  INDE                                       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Sales (GWh)
Bulk                                    509      755     825      984    1192
Retail                                  142      149     190      228      270
Transmission Losses (%)l/                 5.5      5.5     5.5      5.3      5.0
No. of Retail Customers                65,000  70,640  76,650  83,150  90,200
No. of Employees:
Administration                          509      504     494      494      494
Commercial                               89       89      89       89       89
Operations 2/                           997    1027    1047    1047    1047
Construction                           3584    1800    1000       500      300
Financial Ratios
Operating ratio (%)                      89       69      67       56       51
Debt-service coverage (times)           0.8      1.7     1.2      1.2      1.2
Debt/Equity ratio                      40/60   57/43   62/38   64/36   64/36
Receivables (days)                      142       60      60       60       60
B. EEG
Sales (GWh)                               723      859     932    1011    1097
C. SECTOR
Financial Ratios:
Operating ratio (%)                        84       73       67      57       53
Debt-service coverage (times)             1.2      1.8     1.5      1.4      1.4
Debt/Equity ratio                        35/65   51/49   56/44   59/41   59/41
Receivables (days)                         93       52       52      52       52
1/ The total annual difference in kWh metered at the step-up substations (low-voltage
level) and the delivery substations (low-voltage level), expressed as a percentage
of kWh metered at the step-up substation.
2/ Personnel engaged in system operations, including related administrative services.
3/ Contracted personnel.
February 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
Economic Justification
1.          The following calculations are based on June 1976 prices.
2.          INDE would need to increase system generating capacity by mid-1979
to meet demand, while maintaining a reserve equal to the largest unit in the
system.
3.          The least-cost expansion program, after the second steam unit
(53 MW) at the Escuintla plant (currently under construction) comes into
operation in early 1977, was ascertained by comparing various alternative
sequences of gas-units, geothermal and hydroelectric plants. These analyses
included consideration of various possible designs for the Aguacapa project
including construction in two stages and capacities varying from 60 MW to
140 MW. It was concluded that a sequence which included a 90 MW, single-stage
development at Aguacapa to be commissioned in 1979 was the least-cost solution
when compared to the second best alternative sequence of projects. The
second best sequence of projects contained the Atitlan hydro plant (120 MW)
for installation before the Chixoy hydro project. The Atitlan project has
been rejected by Government due to ecological considerations.
3.          Cost streams of the two most favorable programs appear on the
next page. These cost streams were compared by discounting them at different
rates and the following results were obtained.
Equalizing Discount
Rate (%)
Aguacapa with 90 MW
Base Case                                                    16.2
Sensitivity to change in investment
15% increase                                           14.3
25% increase in the Chixoy project and
15% increase in the others                         14.2
Sensitivity to changes in the cost of fuel
10% decrease                                           13.6
20% decrease                                           13.3



COST STREAMS
in million US$
A. Least-Cost Program
Acuacapa                   Moyuta              Chixoy             Operation and Maintenance
(9OMW)a/                 (30MW)              (300 MW)             Fuel              Other
1976                             9.6                       1.1                  18.4
1977                            29.6                       1.5                  43.4
1978                            28.3                       6.3                  34.8
1979                            18.0                       6.8                  40.9                                  0.4
1980                                                       3.9                  47.0                                  0.8
1981                                                                            21.5                                  1.1
1982                                                                             6.7                                  1.1
1983 to 2019                                                                                                          3.2
B. Alternative Program
Aguacapga/  Gas Unit       Moyuta              Chixoy
(60MW)-    (30MW)        (30MW)              (300 MW)               c/
1976                             8.1                       1.1                  18.4
1977                            24.9                       1.5                  43.4
1978                            19.2         2.3           6.3                  34.8
1979                            17.4         2.9           6.8                  40.9                                  0.5
1980                                         2.3           3.9                  47.0               2.0                0.9
1981                                                                            21.5               2.0                1.3
1982                                                                             6.7               2.0                1.3
1983 to 1988                                                                                       2.0                3.4
1989 to 1995                                                                                                          3.4
1995                                         2.3                                                                      3.4
1996                                         2.9                                                                      3.4
1997                                         2.3                                                                      3.4
1998 to 2011                                                                                                          3.4
2012                                         2.3                                                                      3.4
2013                                         2.9                                                                      3.4
2014                                         2.3                                                                      3.4
2015 to 2019                                                                                                          3.4
a!  Average annual generation, 395 GWh.                                                                                      X B
b/  Average annual generation, 350 GWh.                                                                                     (IQ
c/  Difference in generation available with the larger (90 MW) Aguacapa scheme and at
gas-unit generation cost of US$0.044/kWh.
February 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
Rate of Return
Return on Investment
4.        The rate of return to Guatemala on the investment in the project
for which the benefits were calculated on the basis of the estimated fuel
savings and the increase in energy sales due to the retail tariff levels
in effect in 1976. The costs included all those associated with the project
plus estimated costs for the distribution system expansion that would be
required because of the project. Detailed explanations regarding the
assumptions made in calculating the costs and benefits are provided in the
footnotes appearing in the following pages.
The cost and benefit streams shown on the tables appearing on the following
page were compared by discounting them at different rates and the following
results were obtained:
Equalizing Discount
Rate(%)
Base Case                                                  14.9
- Sensitivity to change in project cost (10% increase)   13.0
- Sensitivity to change in sales          (10% decrease)   12.7
February 1977



COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
Return on Investment
I.  Costg - in million US$
…i----------------Investments-----------------------          ------------Operation and Maintenance-------
Project-a
Subtrans. &
Generating                      Other      Distribution        Generatinc   Subtrans.  &
Station   Transmission  Transmission    Facilities-           Station-    Transmissionr-r  Distribution-    Total
1976          9.6          -              -                                         -                                      9.6
1977        29.1          0.5            0.8              3.6                -              -                 -            34.0
1978        27.8          0.5            4.5              3.6                -              -                0.2           36.4
1979        17.9          0.1            1.3              3.6               0.1            0.1               0.4           23.5
1980           -            -             -               3.6               0.2            0.1               0.5            4.4
1981           -           -              -               3.6               0.2            0.1               0.6            4.5
1982 to
2019         -            -              -               -                 0.2            0.1               0.6            0.9
II. Benefits
Increase in Total Sales                                Revenue from ,                 Savings in
over mid-1979 Level            Sales due tu          Increase in Sales.-            Fuel Expense-           Total
GWvh_                    Project GWh-/              in 106 US$                  in 106 US$          in 106 US$
1979(half-year)  58                                                      -                          12.2              12.2
1980             186                           -                         -                          15.1              15.1
1981             321                           67                       3.5                         15.1              18.6
1982 to
2019            466                          343                     20.6                            -               20.6
a/  See Annex 8 for details.
i/  Estimated at US$200/kW.
c/ Based on INDE's present costs.
d/ Estimated at 3.5%.
e/ See Annex 5.
f/ The sales due to the project have been assumed to be the difference between total sales and those
obtained with existing plants, including reserves.
g/ Valued at the agreed 1977 average retail rate - US$0.060/kWh.
h/  The difference between estimated energy generated with the project and the increase in sales of energy is
considered as generation substituting fuel-fired generation.  Since the project would be operated as a peaking
plant, the substituted energy has been valued at a weighted average of US$0.044 kWh (1976 gas units (50 MW)
generation cost at US$0.0365/kWh, and existing gas units at US$0.053/kWh).                                                                 OQx
February 1977



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
FINANCES
Introduction
1.        This annex provides details on the recent and prospective financial
performance of the power sector, INDE and EEG, which support the summary
analysis presented in Section 6 of the text. As used throughout this report,
power sector means the consolidated operations of INDE and EEG. This annex
is complemented by the following attachments:
A: POWER SECTOR - Key Financial Ratios (1971-88)
B: POWER SECTOR - Financial Statements (1971-88)
Table 1: Income Statements
Table 2: Sources and Applications of Funds
Table 3: Balance Sheets
C: INDE - Financial Statements (1971-88)
Table 1: Income Statements
Table 2: Sources and Applications of Funds
Table 3: Balance Sheets
D. EEG - Financial Statements (1971-88)
Table 1: Income Statements
Table 2: Sources and Applications of Funds
Table 3: Balance Sheets
E. Notes on Financial Statements and Forecast Assumptions
F. POWER SECTOR - Borrowing Terms (1976-88)
G. POWER SECTOR - Disbursement and Amortization Schedule (1976-88)
H. POWER SECTOR - Interest and Commissions Schedule (1976-88)
2.        The 1976-88 financial forecasts included in this annex were prepared
by Bank staff based on individual forecasts prepared in February 1976 by EEG
(1976-80) and in March 1976 by INDE (1976-83), and on supplementary information
received during discussions in Washington between INDE and Bank staff (September
13-21, 1976).
3.        As shown in Annex 7, page 2, the substantial 7-year construction
program is expected to enable the power sector to reduce fuel-burning generation
drastically (from 70% of the total in 1975 to 5% in 1982), which should be



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
accompanied by a commensurate reduction in unit operating (fuel) costs. There-
fore, the forecast horizons were extended beyond completion of the 1976-82
construction program to allow an assessment of (a) its impact upon the long-
term, over-all financial performance of the power sector, and (b) the implica-
tions of (a) on the near-term financing plans 1/, given the desirability of
providing for a smooth evolution in power sector rates.
4.        The extended forecasts were made available to the Government and
INDE for their review early in January 1977, and their representatives con-
firmed them during negotiations for the proposed loan.
Tariff Policy
5.        As can be seen from Attachment B, Table 2, the sector's construction
program is expected to taper-off sharply after 1980. Substantial new invest-
ments in plant would not be required until 1985, and the sector would not re-
quire any new borrowings in the 5-year period 1980-84. In the years 1982-85,
in fact, the power sector would be in a position to generate funds for use in
the rest of the public sector. These temporary excess sector funds are shown
as negative Government contributions.
6.        The proposed retail tariff levels (Attachment B, Table 1) are based
on a two-step increase: the first step would be approximately 15% if intro-
duced by April 1, 1977. The second step would be an increase of approximately
7% in late 1979. In addition to these increases, tariff revenues would be
raised to offset any increases in fuel prices by the application of the exist-
ing fuel adjustment clause.
7.        As shown in Attachment A, if the 1976 tariff levels were maintained 2/
the annual rates of return on historically-valued assets would remain fairly
low throughout the forecast period. More importantly, debt service coverage
would be clearly unsatisfactory, even from 1982 onwards, when the sector
would enjoy the full beneficial impact of the new (not fuel-burning) generating
facilities through a sustained, considerably lower operating ratio. On the
other hand, with the adoption of the proposed tariff levels the rates of
return on historically-valued assets would increase substantially. However,
they would not be unreasonable since the improved debt service coverage would
remain at just adequate levels through the construction period. The contri-
bution to investment would average 15% during the loan disbursement period
(1977-79), 22% during the 1977-82 construction program period, and 33% in the
1977-88 period. The low initial contribution is largely attributable to the
"bunching" of investment in that period, but is acceptable given the adequate
debt service coverage and the need to provide for a smooth evoluation in
consumer charges.
1/   1977-79 Aguacapa project construction period.
2/   Government initially proposed to cover any financing shortfalls with its
own capital contributions.
63



F O W E R h E: C T 0 R
KEFY FINANCIAL JNDICA-PS, 1971-1988
A  C  r  C A  L                                                                 F    0    2    F    C    A    S    T
1971     1972      1973     1974      1975          1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988
Rate of Ret.urnl
Average net plant in service at
aeqi eitic- cost - 7Q million)                        69.88    70.96    76.48    81.65    84.26           88.66   iii.48   143.56   192.61   273.39   337.72   4417    612.23   695.03   686.74   680.62   677.07   676.33
Rate of Return - ,f)
Actual                                                 9.1     10.3       9.6       6.1      6.5
At 1976 tariff levels                                                                                      7.2       9.2      7.8       9.9       8.1      6.8       9.8       7.7       7.6      9.4       8.8       9.4      9.1
At proposed tariff levels                                                                                           15.0     14.2      15.2     14.9      12.9      14.9      11.8     11.5      12.8      13.5      14.4     14.6
Operating Ratio - (%)                                     6S        64       66        83       85            84        73       671       57        53       54        37        37        36       35        37        38       42
Debt Service Coverage
tros.  debt service] - (C million)                       4.62     1.79      1.90      3.96     3.87          8.68    13.56    20.16    29.41    39.20    46.29    49.35    52.64    50.40    47.73    58.85    69.93    96.o8
Ratio - (tines)                                          1.7      5.8       5.5       2.1      2.3
At 1976 tariff levels                                                                                        1.2       o.8      o.6       0.7       0.6      0.5       0.9       0.9       1.1       1.3      1.0       0.9       o.6
At proposed tariff levels                                                                                              1.7       i.4      1.4       1.4       1.3      1.8       1.9       2.1       2.4      2.0       1.8       1.3
Debt/iqoity Ratio                                         23/77    24/76    24/76    27/73    32/68           35/65    51/49    56/44    53/47    59/41    56/44    53/47    49/51    46/54    45/55    44/56    44/56    42/58
Receivables - (days)                                      58       68        75       100       92            93        51        52       52        52        52        52       52        52        52        52       52        52
Depreciation - (%)                                         3.0       3.1      3.2       3.2       3.2           3.3      4.1       3.9      4.0       3.7       3.6       3.6       3.4      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
Contribution to Tnvata.n.t/ (%)                          7       64        69        (4)      21             8        16       13        16        21        28       84       231       299        69        32       30        18
1/ Net of interest financed by loans.
N/ Net cash  -eneration as a percentage of total applications of funds 'both from Attanbment (, 'able 2).
Febrvary 1977



P o W E h    2     T O 12
ACTITAL AND FOSECA3T INCOME STATAnXENTS, 1971-1Q88
(MIllions of Quelsales)
A  C  T  1 A  L                                                                     F                          A I       A
(Year ending Decmb.r 31)    1971        1972       1973     194   14975                     1976      1977     1978     19' 9    1910     1791    (9', 19'3    1'11           (Tm    lO       1917      1988
Notes
Inergy Nsle5 1/  (oWb)                           2
By INDE                                               45.9      53.4        61.2    8o.7I    117.3                  141.7    149.3   189.5    228.2  270.2    310.5   355.2   3)7.6   443.0    6)] .9   531.2    572.7   616.2
By EEG m                                                       596.6      658,8   694 749.9                         723.0    859.2  932.2   1011.4  1097.4   11l').7  1291.9  1401.7  1520.8  1650.1  1787.1   1935.4  205b.o
Total                                             577.9     650.0       720.0    775.6     847.2                 864.7   1OO8.5  1121.7   1239.h  136'7.6   1501.?  167.T i]7fJ0.3 l'T3F2T12,0  21()j508TE9779'7
Aversge price/kWh - cents
INDE                                                  3.75      3.78        3.93    4.20      3.61                   4.51    5.16    5.33    5.33    5.82       5.82     5.82    5.8.    5.6:    5.82       5.82     5.8?    5.82
EEG                                                   3.29      3.23        3.20    4.22      504                    5.35    5.98    6.18    6.18    6.77       6.'17    6.77    6.77    6.77    6.77       6.77     6.77    6.77
POWER SECTOR                                          3.32      3.28        3.26    4.22      4.84                   5.21    5.86    6.o4    6.02    6.58       6.57     6.57    6.56    6,56    6.55       6.55     6.55    6.55
Operating Revenue 2J                             4
IIDE                                                  1.72      2.02        2.40    3.39      4.23                   6.39    7.70   10.10   12.16   15.73    18.07    20.67   23.14   25.78   28.63    30.92    33.33   35.86
mmEG                                                 17.45     19.27      21.07   29.34       6.8O                  38.68   51.39   57.61   62.50   74.29   8(.61    87.46   94.90  102.96  111.71   120.99   131.03  141.9)0
Total sales revenue                              19.17     21.29      23.47   32.73      41.03                  45.07   59-09   67.71   7466         90.02    98.61   108.13  118.04  128.74  140.34   151.91   164.36  177. 
Other net operating revenue 3J                                    .         .13    (.09)      (.13)                             51       7    (.60)   ,78)   (.83)    (.88)   (.95)  (1.02)  (1.08)   (1.18)   1.27)   (1.
T.ta  operating revenu.                          4  '99    21.21      2360   3'?R                                                            616171                                     P    1    ~I.7)7,9
Totsl opeating revnue          lP.-.9    21.21        3.6    32.64.   '40.90                    .7 53s 6.14   741i.6  89t2'4    97.85   107.25  117.09  127.72  139.26   150.73    130  17
Operating expense
Ad.intatrative and general                            6.75      6.67        7.15    7.99      9.50                   9.82   10.37   10.92    11.94  13.02    14.01    15.21   16.38   17.69   19.11    20.64    22.25   23.98
Fuel                                         10       2.83      3.89       5.06   15.47      21.41                  23.39   24.03   26.18    20.48  20.37    22.47       3.96    1.03    2.88    4.12       9.02    12.48   21.74
Purchased energy                            11         .01        -         -        .01       .01                                     -       -       -         -         -        -      -       -          -       -
Depreciation                                12        2.58      2.79       3.08    3.43       3.57                   4.00    6.10    7.26      9.73  12.58    15.09    19.41   24.71   25.17   25.70    26.32    27.04   27.91
Other (nu--ash) charges                      13        .18       .19        .23      .26       .28                    .2       36 123         1.24   1.26      1.2-.1            136       .33     .37       .41      .66     .51
Total operating expense                          235      13.54      15.52   27.16      34 .77                     3       36   5        3. 1    7.23    52.25    39.89   43.48  46.07  4930    5639               374.1
Operating income                                         6.64      7.67       8.08    5.48       6.13                   7.24   17.72   21.55    30.67 42.01    45.00    67.36   73.61   81.65   89.96    94.34   100.86  10. 23
Ion-operating incorn/(expense)                  14        -        (.12)       (.49)   (.43)     (.44)                  (.63)   (.91)   (.94)   (1.05)  (.93)    (.98)   (l,ll)  (1.05)  (1.10)  (1.41)   (1.87)   (2.13)  (2.59)
Imec,n tax                                     15         .28       .27        .24     .08      _.23                     .21     .06      .27      .3      .3439                     .6       .s       6        .77      .0 10
Net inco,e before financial expense                     3636       7328       7.35    4.97       5.46                    . 1 6    20-ii                    74    43.69    65.86   72.10   b'0.OO   87.91    91.70    97.83   98.59
Interest sod nowslsshona                       16         n.a.      n.a.      n.a.    n.a.       n.a.                   4.79    10.04   16.65    21.82  25.78    26.32    26.17   25.08         23.39   23.48    29.79    39.05   50.14
Less: Azount charged to construction           ,          n.a.      n.a.      n.a.   n.a.        n.a.                   (2.26)  (6.61) (12.41)  (13,83)(13.78                                          00)31  702)    (10 00)  (21.00) (34.00)
Net financial expense                            .99      1.04       1.12    1.39      1                       2.53    3.h3    4.24      7.99  12.00    13.14    19.15   25.08   23.39   21.48    17.79    18.05   16.14
Net incomn                                               5.37      6.24       6.23    3.58       3.80                   3.87   13.32   16.10    21.33  28.74    30.55    46.71   47.02   56.61   66.43    71.91    79.78   82.45
1/ rxcluding isternopa'ny sales.
7/ Fxcluding net. interbonpany sales/purchases,
a/   1o1 sae                                       5.59      6.46        7.58   13.50     14.93                   17.41   37,14   39.33    45.27  55.91    67.8 Pk      .PRI   75.03   80.3'   6e.02    01,39    07.23  107.38
3/  et o f n..I..'an payable by EEl.  Note 6.
Februarv 1977
8tO :



y O F    E R   I E '   r o 8
Ar iSA1, ANi HRIM1'AVT 3OMR,'FTh   AND ArPLICAWThIN  OF  INN;: CrA'TAT81JN  l971-1Q80
(Mllt1ions of 49e'a cv.)
A          C T U A  L                                                                F   0    R    F   C    A    0    T
(Year ending Olecember 31) 1971     J9(L      1973     1974      J75Y                  1976      1977    1978       19_9   1980    1911       19R2      19133     1984     lp";    3,01,      1987   19138
Notes
Grosn cash generfation                       8.03     10.31     10.48     8.14      8.80                 10.72    23.21    28.83      40.29   54.58    60 06    86.58    913.15    106.56   113.98   118,43    125.33  126.96
TeAS: Debt service I/                        4.62      1.79      1.90     3.96      3.87                  6.45     7.94     9.19      17. 25   27.70    35.42    46.23    52.64     50.40    45.73   44.85      43.93   62.o8
Net dividend payments B/         17    5.15       .72       .12      .08       .08                   .09      .04      -          -        -       -         -       -          -        -        _         _       _
Plus: Castomer c,ntributions                  .19       .09       .18      .34       .57                   .49       .49     .50        .51     .52       .54     .56       .59       .62      .(I,     .70       .75     .A0
Decce.se/(ilncrease)  in other asseta        2.05      1.53)     (.39)   (5.02       .21                           4.71      .            6)  (5.26)   (5.0G)   (6.08)   (3.89)      5.30     7.41     1.46      3.69    1.26
Net cash generation                     .50      6.36      -.25     (.58      5.63                   5.5   20.4316.16           20.39   22.1    20.12    83         42.21     62.0c    76.32    75.74      3:5.8    66.94
Ekorrowings                                  3.63      4.23      2.88     9.89     16.98                 33.46    98.74    90.66      88,98   77.23    37.95    13,69       -        -       49.00   114.00    136.00  176.00
Grants                                18      -         -         -         -        .51                   8.85      .62      .26       -       -         -       -         _         _        _        _         _
Govern-nt rontributions               19    2.13        -        1.32     6.37      9.17                  30.58    8.52    18.89      17.20   11.31    13.43   (11.27)  (22.41)   (40.34)  (O.T9)  51.54       70.16  138.54
Decrease/(incr-7ee) in cash                  1.13      (.66)     (.42)    (.06)    (4.8b)                 (2.17)(1.05 )(1.01)          (.47)(2).9       34       4.o6    (1.50)      (-95)   (3.70)   (5.85)    (3-51)  (6.78)
Tot.l sourc.e                          7.39      9.3    12.03    15.62       17.45                  75r  2,.nb     124.96       126.16107.69       iJ.84    41.31     18.30   20.79   1 810.3  235.43    288.49  394.70
APPLTCAT IONS
Conostruction Progrsm                         n.S.    n.s.       n.&.    n.a.    n.a.                   69.71   115.63   108.73     109.05   90.58    55.01    30.30    13.93     16.00   103.58   219.78    261.42  334.16
Cocstruction overhead                         n.-.     n.a.      U.S.    S.5.    n.a.                    2.46     2.4'     2.74.      3.04    3.33     3.65     3.99     4.37      4.1      s 25     5.65      6.o7    6.554
Totel Construction EKxpenditure        6.31      9.29     11.61    15.09    26.22                 72.17   118.11  111.47      112.09   93.91    58.66   34.29    18.30      20.79   108.83  225.43   267.49  340.70
Itudies                                    '1.08       .64       .42      .53      1.23                 2.14     2.54     1.08         .18    -        -        -         _         _        _       _          _       _
Interest chrged to construction               n.s.    U.S.       U.S.    U.S.       U.S.                 2.26     6.61   12.41       33.83   13.78    13.18    7.02       -         -       2.00    14.00     26.00   34.00
Total applicatios                     7.39       9.93     12.03    15.62    27.45                 76.57   127.26  124.96      126.10  107.69    71.84   41.31    18.30      20.79   110.83   235.43    288.49  374.70
1/ Net fiaccial expense (total financial expense leSS 9aount charged to construction) plus principal amortization payentes.
7, Di,id-ens paid by Fir. less Er. divTidends reinvested by Governrent in TNDE.
Fe' -Ar-; 19I 7



ACtLUAL A"S  F050261AS) eAI.AlWF  2421  12-9
.A   C    TU     AL                                                                      F     )          F    C1    A           1
'A. or Deosob- 31)        L971      1972       1973       1971      1975                       1976       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       1962      1983        1981.   19t35      1gi8(     1987      1588
Notes
uti3ity p5.1 is. -erise                           86.60    91.29    103.36    108.06   115.61                         12l4.142    171.35   201.914   286 .4 5   385.81)   1442.79   628.36   82'7.86E  8143.814   862.16   883.61   908.142   937.03
L,ess: Mlproelatlon reserve                      1.2    1.6    (2.3)   (25.) (B 9.36)                                 (3336    (39.146)  (146.72)  (56.145)  (69.03)  (814.12) (103.53) (412L8.241) (153.41) (119.11) (298.143) (P32.147) (260.33)
l~t utility 11~st Is servIce    69.98    71.93       810         21         6~9.6                               132.139   355.22   230.00   316.77   358.67   5214.B3   699.8    969.43   63.05   67.11i7595                        TO6
lVrls In prog~re5s                                 8.21    12.71    107          _10         97                        0.6    17928.6 3.5 83.09   3146.91,44  202.~68                           1.4        29.  118.80   W3,78   U.4              125
ISsI. Fiasof Seset.    20      ~~~76.19    8.6s      91.79    103-32   125.95                       29.2        39         4738 537            4.6      75~.6      7275       2.0 7   7           0.5 01.617.                   692
Currs:.t 555et5 5                                  7.32      9.03     11.148      17.67    23.73                       27.69      26.79    31.30    314.31    140.95    142.95    141.39    145.17    148.11    514.22    6S2.149    68.68    78.142
Delferred  Id otwe  $Beet%                              5.152~ 8       6.06        6.84      7 (Ai                      7.52       7.140     6.36      5.32      14.28      3.214     2.20      1.16        .10       .10        .10 -3.1.0    -.20
T,Ital a555t5                              90.93-    9.47    10.3          27.9    1.2233.73    353.837  '47504 53 )                                      9.9      751.80   771.10   767.43   765.03   85r.I717.5   34.9 677
Eq.1ty                                            614.96    7o.147     76.314     85.6o    98.51                      1141.72    1614.14   199.39   237.92   277.97    321.95   357.-39   382.00   398.27   1453.91   577.36   77. 30   9148.29
degts   .bt1                                19.16    22.614      214.714     32.06    146.83                     76.37    170.60   256.31   336.03   397.56   1413.23   399.814   372.28   3145.27 37.2                 1596       6.0      69lt
Less: Cerrest pos~~lIso (Au. sslttsLe 1  ~~  (.78)  (1.02)    (2.7n)   (3.92)                      1.1       (14.95)   (9.26)  (15.70) (.2)(27.08   (27 1563  270)(1.5 (2.6) 2.88)  (145.94)  (149.146
Ne    ong-ter. debt                                1.116     23.V72     29.35    142.91                      tb.B6   -165.65  270          30.3392             3815        7.8   345.27  321.0-2  3144.96  1433.08   523.114   653.68
C-rret Iis.bMtltie  5                              6.28      5.80       7.814     10.57    13.29                       17.08      20.146    214.t58    30.50    35.69    38.01        35.18    33.3 2    38.,28    149.18    514.29    81.18    89.143
Detesse  .s: other liabUliti.s                     1.28     1.314      114~    2.01         2.61                        3.3       36I1.2              1.3         .5       56         6.25      6.81      7.146      8.12      8.82      9.57    00.37
Total liabilities                         90.93    9.7        1033        2.5      17322~:73    353  871 45X 54:   ~                                        :-+36 4Z-0 711 
Net or E1r2s p4sweble to INDE1, *s folio~ss:       .50       .65        .59       2.51      1.39                       1.145      2.88       3.3V      3.88      14.66     5.214      5.83      6.25      6.69      7.17       7.61      8.10       8.61
FetIrusar 1977



INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FLECTRIFICACION (INDE)
ACtIAL AND) FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS, 1971_198b
(Millions of Quetzales)
A  C T U A  L                                                                            F   0    R   F   C    A    S    T
(Year ending Oec..her 31)  1971    197Z       1973    1974       1975                   1976     1977      1978      1_979      980       1981    18_       1983      1984      1985     1986      1987    19P8
Note,
Energy sales (Gwh)                  2
To E2(                             3   32414   373.8    457.1   480.6         494.2                   512.3  752.8    822.9    980.8  1,085.9   1,220.0  13399.6  1,518.6   1,652.3  1,7y3.0  1,942.1   2,201.0  2,278.3
To others                                45.    53.1       61.2    80.7       217.3                   1141.7  1149.     189.5    228.2      202        3O5      355.2     397.6    14143.0   491.9   531.2      572.7   616.2
'fotal                                3 70.93   42372   51B 3   561.3       611.5                    54.0            012.4  1,209.0   1,356.1    10 5          548   19162   2,095.3  2,24.9 2.473.3  2,773.7   ,9.5
A-erage prlce/kWIh - cents
To ES'.                                  1.72     1.73      1.66    2.81       3.02                    3.40    4.93     4.78      4.62      5.15        5.15     5.00      4.94     4.86      4.8o     4.71      4.42     4.54
To sthnr-                                3-75    3.78       3.93    4.20       3.61                   4.51    5.16      5.33      5.33      5.82        5.82     5.82      5.82     5.82      5.82     5.82      5.82     5.82
All ..lee                              1.97    1.99       1.93    3.01       3.19                   3.64    4.97      4.88      4.75     5.28         5.29     5.16      5.12     5.06      5.02     4.95      4.71      4.81
uperetiog re-eue                    14
Sper  to rev                       5    5.59    6.46       7.58    13.50       14.93                 17.41  37.14      39.33     45.27    55.91       62.86    69.94      75.03    80.33     86.02    91.39     97.23   103.38
Others                                   1.72     2.02     2.40     3.39       4.23-                   6.39   7.0       ,,0l1    12.16    15.73        18.07    20.67     23.14    25.78     28.63    30.92     33.33    35.86
Total edlen revenoc                    7.31     ff.40     9.9b   16.B9      19.16                   23.B0   44.84      49.43   57.43  71.6          80.93         90.61  98.17   106.11    114.65   122.31   -130.56   139.24
Other operating r.evenoe                 .11      .214      .149     .36        .56.                    .145    55 .6               .6       6           7        84        .2      1.01      1.11     1.20      1.30     1.14o
Total operating revenue                7142    b.742    10.47   17.25       19.72                      25    34      49996    5806    72.33         81.69    91.45      99.09   107.12    115.76   123.51    131.86   140.64
Operatin" o .pense
Personnel                          7    (        (2       (        (           1.99                   2.12    3.11      3.80      4.03 -  4.27         4.51     4.86       5.16     5.47      5.80     6.15      6.52     6.91
Materials  nd supplies             8    (2.30    2.78      3.03   (3.41         .23                     .42    .63        .83     1.00     1.19         1.30     1.41      1.48     1.50      1.52     1.55      1.58      1.62
Other adaluistrative wAi  general   9                                             73                          23,N                                                .3        .1      4.g       44 
sob-total                             2.30     2.78      3.03    3.41        1.7T.83    2.0                          2.21       2. ,.1    2.79       .0 7     3.8       3.1      1.0        41       491      53        57
On33.99                4.37   5.74       6.b47     754     B.25        38.°bb    965      10.3     110 V      1 1.B1    12.61   13.40    14.26
Fuel                              10    0.91     1.48      2.25     7.58      11.36                  14.34   18.55     20.41     16.82    17.05       20.10      3.96      1.03     2.88      4.12     9.02     12.48    21.74
Parehased *nergy                                                            -              -         -         -         -                 -      -         -         -              -
Depreolatlon                      12    1.67     1.83      2.07     2.35       2.42                   2,75    75 5      5.80      8.12    10.80       13.11    17.19      22.22    22.36     22.52    22.70     22.90    23.13
other (no-cant.) charges          13      .15     .16        .17     .16        .18                    I2               1.08      1.07    1.0 O7       1.07     1.07       1.09      .03       .0       .3        .3        .0
TOtal operating expe                  5 °3        6 256   17       16         9                                      34 26    33 55    37.17       43.16    31.87      34.69    36.33     38.48    44.36        Of81    59.16
Operating lncotne                          2.39    2.47      2.95     3.75       1.77                   2.58   16.07     15.83     24.51    35.16       38.53    59.58    64.40    70.79       77.28    79.15     83.05    81.48
Hon-operating incooe/(e.pense)      14    (.08)    (.13)     (.56)    (.48)      (.53)                  (.66)   (.95)     (.99)    (1.10)    (.99)      (1.04)   (1.18)    (1.13)   (1.20)    (1.53)   (2.01)    (2.29)   (2.78)
Itoene tatu                         15-                                 -         --                              -         -        ---                                     -        -----
Net inmo, before financial expnee          23- l    2.34     2.39     3.27       1.24                   1.92   15.12     14 A      2T 341    34.17      37.49    58.40     63.27    69.59      75.75    77.14     80.76    78.70
intereot snd co-isons              16      n.a.   n.a.       n.a.      U...      n.a.                   4.27    9.62     16.34     21.62    25.69       26.32    26.17     25.08    23.39     23.48    29 79      39.05    50.14
less.  Aeo=nt charged to construction       n.a.   sl.S.     n.a.      n.s.      n.a.                  (2.26)  (6.61)   (12.41)   (13.83)  (13.78)     (13.18)   (7.02)       -       -        (2.00)  (10.00)   (21.00)  (34.oo)
Net finanlial expense                      0. O  1.04        1.12    1.23        1.21                   2        .01      3.93      7.79    11.91         33.0019.15       25.0B    23.39      21.48   -19.79     18.05   -16114
Nrt 1ncoe                                  1.32    1.30      1.27    2.04        0.03                   (.09) Z2.11     10.91      155.2    22.26       24.35    39.25     38.19    46.20      54.27    57.35     62.71    62.56
re*_ , 197'                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '  -  1
197"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INSTliiITi2) NA: 1 NA, L W  IR,CTkIPI Ai 6: :  (1P I:
ACTtJAl AN1) F(RECASIl S,AIiiCEl AND) AYPPI,ATU)OI Or OINIc; ~;'IA 191)1, j71-1Aio~
(MilIli-. of' :-L-I-e)
AC  rI U  A  L                           ----                                             0    ii    U    C    A
(Year ending Deember 31)    1972         1972        1973       1974    T1975            1976       1977        1978      1979      1980      1981       198?       19J83      19841       1985      1986       1978      1988
SOUIRCES
Net Incom, before fisnocial expense                      2.31       2.34        2.39       3.27      1.24          1.92       15.12       14.84    23.4i    j4.17    37.49         58.40    63.27        69.59       '15.75    77.14      80.76    7b.70
Rion: Depreciation                               12      1.67       1.83        2.07       2.35      2.42          2.75        4.75        5.80      8.12    10.80    13.11        17.19    22.22        22.36       22.52    22.70       22.90    23.13
Other  on.-canh charges                    13       .7&2)      .2          .07        .23      .06            *21         .23        1.08      1.07      1.07      1.07       1.07      1.07        1.09        .03        .03        .03       .03
CGross cash generation                             3.2        437         4.53       5.85      3.72          4.88       20.10       21.7      3.60       60       51.67      7.h6    56.56         93.04      930    998 103.69101.8
Io,55   Met firAncial expense                              .99      1.0D4       1.12       1.23      1.21          2.01        3.01        3.93      7.79    11.91    13.14        19.15    25.08        23.39       21.48      19.79    18.05    16.i4
Aw.rtization of principal                           .6          75         .78      1.02      1.26          .1...2.    3_.00lt       3.52      7.813    lit. 99    22.28    27.018    7.6          27.01      24i.2L5    25.06    25.88    45.9
1.62      1.79         1.90      2.2       2.47           3.93       6.o9         7.45    15.62    26.90    35.42         '62        26         138        457         48        39        2.0
Less: Divldends                                  17        -         -            -          -        -                           -        -                     ---                            ----
Plus: Custoser contributions-                                                                         ---                                  ---                             --------
Decrease/(increase) in other net a-sets                 (J,27)      ('39)       (.003)    (2.:86)    2.70          2.27        2.57       (3.12)   (42.81)'  (44:0io)   (I 6o)    (5:.4~1)   (3.114)      6.19        8.43      2.61       5.02      2.79
Net cash generation                                037        2.9         26          .4      3.95           3.82       16. 58      11.15    14.7    1.4         165         25.0      30.703      4?5.13     61.00    57.63       be.7b    42.57
orrroo1ngg                                               3.63       4.23        2.88       5.39    14.48          30.96       98.74       90.66    88.98    77.23    37.95         13.69        -           -        49.00   114.00    136.00   176.00
0rants                                          18         -         -            -          -        .51         8.85          .62         .26       -          -         -          -        ---                                                      -
Goversnment contribution.                        19      2.13       2.57        4.49       6.37      9.17         30.58        8.52       18.89    17.20    11.31    13.43    (11.27)  (22.41)    (40.34)   (10.79)   51.54               70.16   138.54.
lec r-se/(incrcaae) In caoh                              (.22)      (.4y)       (.08)       .4      38)            (5)~3~(5)                          -       (2.0        .9        460       (90         (3)    (3.00)   (5.)    (2.0    (5o0
Total sources                        ~~~~~      ~~~~~       ~~          ~~5.91  8.52  9.41.1    2RA3  531)    (1233   191       120.35   100.98       39         20         .7         81         6.1 28036.4 312
APPLICATT(NS
Constrution programe
O.-ii-~ng  antd continuing -rkrns-                                                                              33.85       13.93        5.69      4.69      4.24      5.23       3.30'   3.65          4.00        4.50      5.00       5.60      6.20
Ageacapa project                                         -                      -         -         -9.60                   37.93       31.38    20.09        -         -          -         -            --                   -          --
Chixoy project                                           -                      -         -         -19.41                  47.54       41.36    52.64    65.62    30.69         10.23       -            -                                 
Psture  worhks-                                                                                                  3.65       12.62       26.13    26.25    14.42    1I. 63         8.00       -           -        85.12   198.24    236.35   305.31
Total construction p-ogra,                         3.98       6.89        8i.39     1.1.21    21.20         66.51      102.02      104.56   103.67    84.28    47.55         21.53      3.65        4.0       8.2 203.14    241.95   311.51
Construtinoverhead                                      .85       0.99        1.08       1.137     :1.7          2.19        2.19        2.41      2.67      2.92      3.2        3.9       382         4.19       4.59       4.93       5.29      57
TotaI constrction espendlture                     4W.83      7.883       9.47      1.8       207           70.84      1167         0.5 1652            820        075        5.02      7.47         8.19      96.21   2180                       'O21  512
Studies                                                  1.08       0.64        0.42       0.53      1.23          2.14        2.54         1.08     0.18         -         -          -         -           ---                                        -
l terest charged to constnruotlo                         n.a        n.s.       nl.a..   n.          n.a            2.26        6.61       12.41    13.83    13.78    13.18          7.02        -           -          .o      10.00      210       340
1otn1 upplicatiuns                                 5.91       8.52        9.89      12.91    24.30          73.10      123.36      120.46   120.55   t00.96    6 3. 93       32.04      7.41         8.19      96.21   218.0?      268.24   351.21
I/ lotal financial expense Iens seount charged to const-etion.
t.h-ary 197?



INSTITUTO NAVIONAL DE RLECTRIFICACIUN (INDE)
ACTJAL AND  FORECAST  BALANCE SHEtT3, 1971.1988
(millions of QuetLales)
.A  C T U A  L                                                                               F    0    Ii   i    C   A    s   T
(As or Decanber 31)          197         3               975196                              1917    1978     1979 1980           199      1982      1983     1984      1985     I986     198?     1988
Note.
ASSS
UtilitY plant in service               49.33  52.61    64.39    66.80    70.92                        76.36   119.46   145.64   224.58   317.37    366.63   543.13   732.03   735.6b    739.68   744.18   749.18   754.78
Le.. Depreciation reerve              (7.30) ( )  (11214)  (13 69)  (516417)                            9) (23.67) (29.47)  (37.59) (48.39)  (61.50) (78.69) (00.91  (123.27   1145.79  ( 168.49  557 739) (1142.5)
Net sutilt plant in service            420      34       31       3U     5475                         57.1444   95.79   11.1b,t,99 26191    305.13   464141          631.12   612.14153855E                5.9102
Work in progress                        8.07  12.67    10.36    20.33    39.28                       106. 91   187.20   281.48   322.89   331 08    345.75   201.29    19.86    24.40    116.61   330.18   593.42  939.03
Net fIned assets                20  50.10   56,12    63.5    73.4    94.03                         164.38  282.99  397.65   509.811  600.06    650.88   665.73   650.96  636.81    710.50   905.87  1151.21 1479.29
Cash and equivalents              21   0.74   1.21       1.29      .88    4.69                         5.20     6.30    6.80     6.80     9.00      8.10      3.50     4.40     4.70      7.70    12.80    15.50    21.40
Accounts receivable                     1.54   1,96      2.13    4.19     3.17                         3.97    4.10     5.08     5.94     7.28      8.25      9.28    10.11    10.99     11.94    12.76    13.66    14.59
Less: Reserve for uncollectibler        (.08)   (.12)    (.17)    (.21)    (.27)                       (.36)   (.47)   (.51)    ( 54)    ( 57)       (.60)    (.63)    (.66)    (.69)     (.72)    (.75)    (.78)    (.81)
Materials and supplies                  1.63   1.92      2.23     2.32    2.96                         3.35    5.04     6.61     8.00      9.49     10.37    11.25    11.81    11.99     12.19    12.42    12.67    12.95
Other current assets                     .64    .52      1:28     2.09    1.22                         1.50     1.50      50     1.50     1.50       1.50      1.50     1.50     1.50      1.50             1.50     1.50
Total corrent "sets                   4.47   5.49    6.74       9.27    11.i7                       13,66    16.47    19.48    21.70    26.70   . 27.62    24.90    27.16    28.49     32.61    38.73    42.55    49.63
Deferred  nd other asets                5.25   5.75    6.02      6.43    7.54                          t 42    7.30    6.26      5.22     4.18       3.14    2.10    1.o6       -
Total assets                         59.o2   6736    76.29  89.114  113.314                        185.146  306.76  423.39  536 80  630.94    681i64  692.73   679.20   665.30    743.11   944.60  1193.76  1528.92
LIAbILITLES
Capital                           24   34.13  36.69   41.13   47.47   57.16                            96.59   u0573  121488   142.o8   153.39    166.82   166.82   166.82   166.82    166.82   218.36   288.2   427.06
Surplus                                34.5 4   6.o14    7.22    7.26    9.10                           9.01                                                          132 32  63 47.65   69.91  94.26  224   138.0   14388    187.36   2'14.71   307.42   369.98
Equity                               3 1.7   42.73    48.35    56.73    66.26                       105960   12.85   156.91   189.73   223.30    261.08   2b9.06   3044.84   310.70    354.18   463.07   595.94   797.04
Long-tern iebt                         19.16   22.64    24.74    29.11   142.33                        71.37   167.03   254.17   335.32   397.56    413.23   399.84   372.28   345.27    370.02   458.96   569.08   699.14
Less, Corrent pordiob(doe within 1 year) (.75)  (.78)  (1.02)  (1.26)  (1.92)                          (3.08)  (3.52)   (7.83)  (14.99) (22.28)  (27.08)  27.561   (27.013 V24.25)  (2S.0o6]  25.883  (45.941 (1456.
Net long-tere debt                  18.41  21.86    23.72    27.85    40.41                         68.29   163.51   246.34   320.33   375.28    386.15   372.28   345.27   321.02    344.96   433.08   523.14   653.68
Current portion of lono-tera debt        .75    .78     1.02     1.26     1.92                          3.08     3.52    7,83   14.99    22.28      27.08    27.56    27.01    24.25      25.o6    25.88    45.94    45.46
Accounts payable                  25    1.48   1.72     2.65     2.57     3.68                         6.99   11.38    10.81    10 25      8.58      5.83      2.33      .58     7.83     17.41    21.07    27.24    31.24
other current liabilities                .09    ,08      .45      ,39      .70                          1410    l.lC     1.10     1.10    1.10       1.10     1.10     1.10    1.10        1.10    1.10      1.10     1.10
Total current lIbilities              2.32    2.58    14.12    14.22     .30                         11.17    16.00    19.74    26.34    31.96     34.01    30.99    28.69    33.18     43.57    48.05   714.28    77.80
Deterred nd other liabilities            .22    .19      .10      .34      .37                            40       40      40        40       40        40       40       40       40        40       40       .40       40
Ttal liabijites                      59.8   67.36    76.29    89.24   113.314                       1415K46  306.76  423.39  536.b 80  630.94   68.64  692.73  679.20  665.30   743.11  94.60 1193.76 1528.92
February 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                                7



EltPRESA   IC=RICA  DP Gdi1TEAIA  S.A.  (EEC)
ACTUAL ANDI FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT9, l9el-1988
(Millions of Qpetzkle.)
A C T U A L                                                                      F   0   R  E   C   A   S   T
(Year ending Dcember 31)   1971                  1973      1974      1975         1976     1977      1978    1979       1980   1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987    18
Notes
Energy -s-le. (GON)                           2       532.0     596.6      658.8    694.9   729.9          723.0    859.2    932.2   1,011.4  1,097.4  1,19).7  1,291.9   1,401.7  1,520.8  1,650.1   1,787.1   1,935.4  2,096.0
Average price/kWh   cents                              3.29     3.23       3.20      4.22      5.04         5.35      5.98    6.18       6.18     6.77    6.77     6.77     6.77      6.77     6.77      6.77       6.77      6.77
Operating revenue
Gross sales revenue                          4       17.45    19.27      21.07      29.34    36.80        38.68     51.39     57.61    62.50    74.29   80.61    87.46     94.90    102.96   111.71    120.99    131.03   141.90
Ie.s: Sale t.                                6         .32      .35        .38        .48      .71          .        1.03      1.15     1.25    1.49    1.61      1.75      1.90      2.06     2.23      2.42       2.62     2.84
ert soles revenue                                  17.13    1892       2069 20.06    309                37.1      5036      56 46    61 25    72 80   79 00    85 71     93 00    100 90   109.48    118.57    128.41   139.06
O-te operating re-enue                               .03       .3         .02        .03      .:02         .02      .02       .0        0        002               03       .0        .3        .04    1.'04        .05      .05
Net operating revenue                              17.16     18.95     20.71      28.289   36.11i       37.93     50J.3b    5tb.W    61.27    72.82   79.02    85.74     93.03    100.93   109.52    118.61    128.46   139.11
Operating expense
Personinal                                   7       2.65      n.a.       2.93       3.O2    3.47          :..77     2.74      1.95    2.06      2.20    2,31     2.45      2.61      2.87     3.16       3.48     3.83      4.21
MaterhIsle anwd suppiles                     8         .30     n.a.        .26        .27      .34          .34       .42       .48      .56      .61     .67      .74        .81       .89      .98      1.08     1.19      1.31
Other a'ie.inistrative eid general           9        1.50     n.a.        .93       1.29    1.70          1.34      1.47     1.62    1.78    1.616    2.15    2.37         2.61      2.87      3.16      j.47    3.83       4.20
S.lb-total                                          445        9        4.12       4.58     5.51         5 45      4.63      4.05     4.40     4.77    5.13     5.56      6 03      6.63     7.30       8.03     8.85      9.72
Pu    e . y10                                        3.92      2.41       2.81       7,89   10.05          9.05      5.48      5.77     3.66     3.32    2.37       _-                      -              -         -          -
Purci,ane. energy                           11       5.60      6.46       7.58      13.51    14.94        17.41     37.14     39.33    45.27    55.91   62.86    69.94     75.03     80.33    86.02     91.39    97.23    103.38
Depreclntion                                12        .91       .96       1.01       1.08     1.15         1.25      1.35      1,46     1.61     1.78    1.98     2.22      2.49      2.81      3.18      3.62     4.14      4.78
Othe, (nwn-cash) charges                    13        .03       .03        .06      .  10      .10          .11       .13       .15      .17        .19   .21      .24       .27        .30     .34        .38      .43       .48
Total operating expense                            12.91    13.75      15.58      27.16   31.75         3         473    50.7t                        72.       7.          .2        0                03.                  836
Operating income                                       4.25      5.20       5.13       1.73    4.36          4.66      1.65      5.72     6.16     6.85    6.47     7.78      9.21     10.86    12.68      15.19    17.81     20.75
Non-operating inno.e/(experue)               14        .08       .01        .07        .05      .09          .03       .04       .05      .05      .06     .06      .07       .08        .10      .12       .14      .16       .19
NcOn, taeo                                   15 f-8              .2ne.24              .08      .23           .21      o0,       .27      .30      .4       .33      .39       .46       .55      .64       .77      .90      1.05
Net incnae,betoee financial expenee          1     5           4.94       4,9- 4b 1.70        4.23         4.48      1.63      5.520    5.9 6      57    6.20     7.46      8.83      10.41    12.1 6  14.56    17.07       19.89
Interest and Coainsuione                     16         -         _          _          .16     .45          .52       .42       .3'1    .20        .09
I.csn: Amount charged to construction                   -1                                        455                    4         3        2       -09
Net financial expense                                                 -               ,16   -45             .52      .42       .31      .20       0.9
Net ioose              .                              4.05      4.94       4.96       1.54     3.77         3.96      1.21      5.19     5.71     6.48    6.20     7.46     88.83      1,.4i    12.16     14.56    17.07     19.89
'ebr,iary 1977
0.    C



PWRESA ELN1ACA         N3NL    A. (EFIO)
ACIUAL AND FORECAST' SOURCS3S AtID AP&LICAISONS I  F71NDS 57A3 MCN7P., 19(1ND9132
A           C  T  U  A  1                  *                                         F                 C   A   S
(Year ending u.cember 31)    _971         1972   1973      974 -  1975              197Fi     1977       1978       1979    1980       1981      IS        19(3 1:'l   _:L4     t9z                 :I         1998
sa~~~~~~~~~~~~oe
4et inco-e, befWre financlOs expense                     4.05       4. 94   4.96     1.70      4.22           4.46      1.63       5.50       5,91    6.57       6.20      7.46      8.63      10.'41    12.16    14,56    17.07        1989
Ploe:  Vhprec-5st                               12        .91        ,96   3.01      I.o       1.25           1.25      2.35       3.46       1.61    1.78       1.98      2.22      2.49       2.31      3.18t     3.69      4.14       4.73
(ther norl-ceeh ch-rges                   1                    C4   (.                     919)         5          .13        .15       .67  ' 59          .21        .24         7        .30       . 3  34   .38    2144.43       .48
Orosa 0.81 generatlos          .77       5.     5.95      2.29~~~~~~~~e  3         58        31         71         769       .54        B-39    992    11.59        13.52    15.68       2N.,R~       9537 256
Less: Net fiNet -l etens                                  .          -                 i .16    .45            .52       .42        .31        .20      .09             -        -              -         -
Atit-tion of prinrcipl                             3.00     -  _               1.55       .95           2.00      1.43       1.43       1.43      .71        -             -       _    _            _         _
-  1.7:1     1.4U           2.52      1.5         .4        16         N                                        
Lesee  OiYtdesds                                17       5.15       3.29   3.29       .08       .08            .09       ,v4        -               -        -               _        _         _
Plu: Customer contrlbutlone                               .19        .09    .16       .34       .57             .49      .49        .50        .51      .52       ,54       .56       .5)        .62       .61 .70             .75        .80
Deoroa.erse/(creae)  sln other net etaseta               3.32      (1.14)  (.36)   (2.16)   (2.49)           (1.09)    2.14        (.(6)      (.35)   (.76)    (,46)    (.67)    (.75)          (,89)   (1.02)   (1.15)   (1.33)    (I,53)
Net cash generation                                 .13      1.60   2.48    j1.32)    1.68              2.63      3.85       5.01       6.22     7.50     '.47       9.81    11.43       13.25    15.32   1l.11    21.0(          24.37
borrowinge s                                                          -       -      4.5°      2.50           2.50       _           _          _         _        *_
D.ecresieo/( iccreaae) lncin Cash                        1.35       (19)  (34)    (  7        (1.3           (1.66)       05        .51          7       7 9 16) '  9                                      .7)    (.3         (3 1)
Total 805T055                      248        1.h~~~~~~~      ~~~~~II   2.14  2.71  315  3.47     3.90         .5       5.5      67        791        .2      1.8        1.0       1.2       1.3       2.5        234
APPLI CAT DIN.3
Coarotroction prograe                                    1.34       1.26   1.97      2.54      2.69           3.20      3.61       4,17       5.38    6.30       7,46      8.77    10.28       12.00    13.90    16.64    1,.47         22.65
Coestrusctlon overhead                                     .14       .15    .17        .17       .26            .27       .29        .33        .3?     .41       .45        .50      .55         .60       .66       .72       .76        .84
Total Coisitructioo, expenditure                   1          1      2.14      2.1        .15                     3.90       4.50       5.75    6. 71      7 9       97    10 8          12.       14.E2    17 3b    20 2         2_3 47
Total Applications                                 1.48       1.41   2.14      2.71      3.15           3.47      3.90       4.50       5.75    b.71       7.91      9.27    10.63       22.60    14.62    37.36    20.25         23.49
1/ Total t',nc"lj etspeane less afount chgrg4d to constrUction,
Fett, Srf  197'



EMPRESA eRUMICA  [IF OiJA12MLA ;.A. (E!i,;)
ACTtlAI, AND 0ORNECAST RALMIECt MHE11C  19(1-191R,
(M1llon.e or  'cae)
A  C  T  u A  L                                                                  F  0 R   E      C   A   S   I
(As of DeOaler 31)           1    19T2  I973         17        1975             h      l977     1978       1979J  190        1981      1962    19h3       19864    j)6       I'll     1797  59884
Notes
la78
Utility plant in aervico                              37.27   38.68    38.97      41.26    44.69         48.06     51.89    56.30      6i.8;   68.43    76,16    85.23   95.83    0oB16   1112.4b    139s.43   159.24   182.25
14nes  Depreciation -Serve                            (9.32) (10.2)  ( 9)   (V2.11)  (13.19)            (A.4       15.79   (17.25)   (18.86)  2.64)  (21.62)  (24.64) (27.33)   (30,14)  (33.32)   3.)(41.0)  (/
list otilit, plant in aer,,i.e                        27.95   28. 48    27.88     29.15    31.50         33.6;24A36.101.~   39.05      43.01    47.7     53.54    60.39   68.50       78.02    89.1      0.4    118.1    136.1
Workl 1n progresrr                                       14     .04       .40                .42            .52       .59      .68       .86     101       l.19     1.3i9    1.62      1.89     2.19       2.60     3.04      3.52
Net 1108d aSsets                  20                28. 5      .2       o 2     29a    31.             34.14     36.69    39.73      43.87    48 B0    54.73    61.78   70.12       79.9191.35    105.()1:'5§i            1397
C"h and equlvalent                  21                  .58      .77    1.11       1.58     2.61          4.27      4.22      4.73      5,20     5.99     6.55      7.09    7.69       8,34     9.04       9.'9    10.60    11.46
Accounto raceiva1e                  22                 2.05    2.73     3,34       7.44     8.65          9,09      6.78      8.17      8.86    10.32    11.20    12.15   13.18       14.30    15,52      16.81    18.20    19.71
Lss,: Rese-ne for un.ollectible.                       (.24)   (.26)    (.29)      (.35)    (.41)         (.52)     (.65)    (.80)      (.97)   (1.16)   (1.37)   (1.61)  (1.8J)    (2.18)   (2.523    (2.90)   (3.33)   (3.81)
Mater ials nd Supplier              23                  .82      .89    1.06       2.23     2.49          2.64      2.85      3.09      3.40     3.76     4.19      4.69    5.27       5.95     6.?4       7.67     8.76    10.02
Other current $anta4                                    .14     .06        9        .01      .01             _                            - _  _                     - _  _                         _                 -         -
Total current  gaets                                3.35    4.19     5.        10.91    13.35         15.4E     13.20    15.19      16.49    1B,91    20.57    22.32   24.26       26.41    2s.78      31.37    34.23    37,40
Dceforrd and other "g~ets                                1       0        0         .11      .10           .10       .10       .10       .10      .0        .10      .10      .10       .10      .10        .10      .10       .10
Total "gets                                        31.61   32.78    33.63      40.90    45.37         49.72     49.99    55.02      60.46    67.81    75.1iO .                                                     .10 1' .5r
Capital                            24                 14.69   14.69    14.69     14.69    14.69          14.69     14.69    14.69     14.69    14.69    14.69    14.69   14.69       114.69    114,69    14.69    14,69    14.69
Surplus                                               11.40   13.05    13.30     14.18    1756           21.43     22.6    277         350    39.98    46.18    53.64   62.47         t2.88    85.04     99. 60   U16.67   136.56
Equity                                                      2774    27.99                32.25         3.12      3729    424         4819    54.6E7   6- 333   77.16               87.57    99.73        29    11.3        6 51
[1n-term debt                                            -      .                 2.95     4.5o           5.00      3.57     2.14        .71      -                  .       _        _          _
teac torrent portion tdue wtthin one sear)             - p  r                   (I.45)   2                        (1.43)   (1.43)
Not long-term debt                                    1_50                               2.Su           3.57      2.14      .71        -        -        _          .      _         _         _         _                   -
Current portion of loon-tarm debt                        -          -             1.45     2.00           1.43      1.43     1.43        .71      -        -         .       .        _          _
Aecoonit payablle                  25                  1.16    1.24     1.73      4.99     3.20           2.53      3.73     4.31       4.76     5.60     6.21     6.73    7.31        7.92     8,58      9.29    10.05    10.87
other.current I IsIllIe                                3,30    2.6      2.58      2.42'    3.18           3.34      2.18     2. 37     2.37      2.79     3.03      3.29    3.57      3.8        .0       45        49       5.37
TOtn current l11bilitits                            434 36 .3                                          7.30      7.34     8.11       8.04     8.39     9.24    10,02   l-10.8      11.79 27- - .5    15.00                 1
Dnfr.r,d and other liabilities                         .0     1.5       1.633     1.67     2.24           2.73      3.22     3.72      4.23      414.9     .2      5.85    6.44       7.06      7.72      1.42      9.17     9.7
Total I.abilltiee                                   31.61   32.76    33 .3    40.90    45.37           49.72    49L99    55.                              40    84.20      .4       0.2   120.23        36.5 (           1744
Pehe-,ary 1977



ANNEX 14
Attachment E
Page 1 of 7
Notes on Financial Statements
and
Forecast Assumptions
1.        Actual data has been taken from INDE's and EEG's audited financial
statements. Reclassification has been made as required for purposes of
consolidation.
2.        Sales volumes (excluding bulk sales by INDE to EEG) are the same
as those shown in Annex 5, page 2, and discussed in para. 5.03 of the report.
3.        Bulk sales by INDE to EEG have been derived from the power sector
energy balance shown in Annex 7, page 2. Details are given in the table on
page 4. Losses (transmission and distribution) are calculated at the rate of
5.5% of net generation for INDE and 7.7% of net generation plus purchased
energy for EEG. These rates are based on actual experience in the systems and
are reasonable.
4.        Sales revenues have been calculated on the basis of mid-1976 fuel
prices; any increase in fuel prices would have to be offset by additional
revenues (see note 10).
5.        INDE's revenues from bulk sales to EEG have been calculated as the
latter's residual funds after covering its requirements for operation, debt
service, working capital and construction.
6.        Sales taxes payable by EEG correspond to municipal levies on service
bill collections ("impuesto de cobros"), assessed at the rate of 2%, and which
are assumed to remain in effect throughout the forecast period.
7.        Personnel costs have been estimated taking into account:  (a) the
number of personnel needed at new or expanded installations and at head-
quarters to handle the expanding business, (b) the need to achieve some
productivity improvements, and (c) the need to make power sector remuneration
levels more competitive within the sector itself and with those prevailing in
the private sector. The total number of employees in the sector is expected
to remain fairly constant during the 1976-82 construction period; only a 3%
increase is anticipated. It has been assumed that base salaries would enjoy a
6% p.a. productivity/seniority increase. A summary of the personnel forecast
is shown in the table of page 5.
8.        Materials and supplies expense has been calculated as a function of
the distribution investments at annual rates of 6-7%, which is reasonable.
9.        Other administrative and general expense is expected to increase at
the annual price escalation rates assumed for local supplies in the investment
program (12% in 1977-79, 10% in 1980-85 and 6% in 1986-88).



ANNEX 14
Attachmeat E
Page 2 of 7
10.       Fuel expense has been calculated by applying individual plant unit
cost rates to the corresponding plant generation volumes shown in the energy
balance in Annex 7, page 2. Details are shown in the table on page 6. The
unit costs reflect actual experience and the 1976 fuel prices stated in
footnote 1 of the table. The forecast assumes constant plant unit costs
because the fuel adjustement clause applied by the sector would allow recovery
of any increases.
11.       Purchased energy expenses of EEG.  See note 5 above.
12.       Provision for depreciation will continue to be made at existing
rates which are reasonable. They are summarized as follows:
Hydro plants                       2.5%
Other generating plants            5.0%
Transmission and Distribution    4.0%
Buildings                          2.5%
13.       Other non-cash charges consist of the provision for uncollectibles
and, in the case of INDE only, amortization of financial expenses incurred in
the acquisition of the Michatoya system (Q 0.12 million/year through 1978).
The forecast also assumes that INDE will amortize over a 6-year period
beginning in 1978 the accumulated value of studies (Q 6.4 million, largely
relating the Atitlan power project which has been abandoned.)
14.       Non-operating income/(expense) consist mainly of rentals and income
from temporary investment of surplus cash. In the case of INDE it also
includes commissions payable to the Banco de Guatemala at the rate of 0.5% on
its financial transaction, which outweigh its miscellaneous income.
15.       INDE is exempt from taxes.  EEG is assessed for income tax at the
rate of 5%, which is assumed to remain in effect throughout the forecast period.
16.       Interest and commissions have been calculated based on the borrowing
terms listed in Attachment F to this Annex and the disbursement and amortiza-
tion schedule, Attachment G. Details are given in Attachment H. In the case of
INDE, the IDB package loan for Chixoy provides for US$12.6 million to finance
interest during construction.
17.       EEG is expected to continue to pay dividends to its private share-
holders until its concession expires in May 1977. INDE's charter does not
permit dividend payments.
18.       Grants to INDE include the value (US$8.0 million) of two 25 MW gas
units (Escuintla III and IV) purchased by Government and turned over to INDE



ANNEX 14
Attachment E
Page 3 of 7
in 1976. The remaining amounts correspond to grants by the German Federal
Republic to finance master plan studies (para. 2.09 of the text).
19.       Government contributions represent the financing shortfall/(surplus).
20.       Fixed assets are carried at their acquisition (historical) cost.
Forecast amounts reflect the expansion program discussed in Section 4 of the
text. Details on annual changes in fixed assets are given in the table on
page 7.
21.       Cash balances have been estimated at approximately 1/12 of the sum
of the cash operating expenses, debt service and capital expenditures each
year.
22.       Accounts receivable have been projected as a function of sales
revenues. After an initial allowance for improvement in the collection
periods (para. 6.0 of the text), the annual balances represent average
collection periods of 60 days for INDE and 50 days for EEG, both beginning at
year-end 1977. Intercompany receivables are expected to remain current.
These collection periods include one month of unbilled sales.
23.       Materials and supplies inventories have been projected as function
of the plant in service, allowing for moderate decreases in their level.
24.       Capital increases in INDE cqrrespond to the sum of the grants
(note 18) and Government contributions (note 19). Negative Government contri-
butions in 1982-85 (Attachments B and C, Table 2) have been deducted from
surplus (see para. 5 of this Annex).
25.       Accounts payable have been projected at approximately 1/12 the sum
of construction expenditures, materials and supplies, fuel and energy pur-
chases.



- - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - -- -- - - - -- - -GW h  --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1976        1977         1978          1979       1980        1981         1982       1983
Net Sales
INDE                           141.7        149.3        189.5        228.2       270.2       310.5        355.2      397.6
EEG                            723.0        859.2        932.2      1,011.4    1,097.4    1,190.7        1,291.9   1,401.7
864.7     1,008.5      1,121.7       1,239.6    1,367.6    1,501.2       1,647.1   1,799.3
Net Supply
INDE:
Gross generation             713.0        972.0     1,094.0       1,302.0    1,461.0    1,647.0        1,898.0   2,082.0
Plant use                    (20.9)       (17.4)      (22.7)        (22.6)      (26.0)      (27.4)       (41.1)    (54.3)
Losses                       (38.1)       (52.5)       (58.9)       (70.4)      (78.9)      (89.1)      (102.1)   (111.5)
to EEG (Net) 1/             (512.3)      (752.8)     (822.9)       (980.8)  (1,085.9)  (1,220.0)   (1,399.6) (1,518.6)
EEG:
Gross generation             283.0        190.0       199.0         127.0       115.0        82.0         -          -
Plant use                    (12.0)       (12.0)       (12.0)       (12.0)      (12.0)      (12.0)        -         -
Losses                       (60.3)       (71.6)      (77.7)        (84.4)      (91.5)      (99.3)      (107.7)   (116.9)
from INDE (Net) 1/           512.3        752.8       822.9         980.8    1,085.9    1,220.0        1,399.6   1,518.6
864.7     1,008.5      1,121.7       1,239.6    1,367.6    1,501.2       1,647.1   1,799.3
1/  Excludes electricity interchanges between INDE and EEG, which are small and are made
at the same price as the bulk sales.                                                                                    m p X
February 1977.



1976         1977         1978          1979         1980          1981        198
INDE
Average number of employees1-      1,579        1,608        1,625         1,630         1,630         1,630       1,643
Increase in personnel (%)           2.1          1.8          1.1             .3           -             -           .8
A'erage labor cost (Q x 103)        1.34         1.93         2.34          2.47          2.62          2.77        2.96
Productivity, seniority, etc.
allowance (%)                6           44           21             6            6              6           6
Total personnel cost (Q x 106)    2.12           3.11         3.80          4.03          4.27          4.51        4.86
EEG
Average number of employees!/       573          567          567           567           567           567         567
Increase in personnel (%)           Nil         (1.0)          -             -             -             _           _
Average labor cost (Q x 10 )        6.58         4.83         3.43           3.63         3.88          4.07        4.32
Productivity, seniority, etc.
allowance (%)                5         (27)          (29)            6            6              6           6
Total personnel cost (Q x 106)    3.77           2.74         1.95           2.06         2.20          2.31        2.45
POWER SECTOR
Average number of employees!'    2,152          2,175        2,192          2,197        2,197         2,197       2,210
Increase in personnel (%)           1.0          1.1            .8            .2           -             -           .6
Average labor cost (Q x 103)        2.74         2.69         2.62           2.77         2.95          3.10        3.31
Productivity, seniority, etc.,
allowance (%)                5           6            6             6            6               6           7
Total personnel costs (Q x 106)   5.89           5.85         5.75          6.09          6.47          6.82        7.31
1/  Includes personnel engaged in system operations and related administrative services                                    D rt
and excludes construction (contracted) personnel.                                                                      w X
February 1977                                                                                                              ° m -
rT



Unit Cost!'                          Total Cost (millions of Quetzales
Q/GWh           1976       1977       1978      1979       1980      1981      1982      1983
INDE
Escuintla I (Steam)          23.928         6.01       4.98       5.77     5.98       6.89      6.89        -         -
Escuintla I & II (Gas)       53.224        6.65         -         -         -          -         -         -
San Felipe (Diesel)          38.355          .77 
Melendres (Diesel             38.355         .42        -          -         -          -         -         -         -
Puerto Barrios (Diesel)2/  38.076            .49        .49        .53       .91        .96       .99     1.03       1.03
Escuintla II (Steam)         20.485          -        5.53       8.13      8.60       8.60      8.60        -        -
Escuintla III & IV (Gas)    40.152        _7.55                  5.98      1.33         .60     3.62      2.93      _
TOTAL INDE                             14.34      18.55      20.41    16.82       17.05    20.10       3.96      1.03
EEG
La Laguna (Steam)            28.857        6.87        5.48      5.77      3.66       3.32      2.37        -        _
La Laguna (Gas)              48.511         1.60        -          -        -          -          -        _
La Laguna (Diesel)           48.511          .24        -          -        -          _         _          _
La Castellana (Diesel)       48.511          .34        -                               -         -
TOTAL EEG                               9.05       5.48       5.77      3.66       3.32      2.37       -         _
POWER SECTOR                              23.39      24.03      26.18    20.48       20.37    22.47        3.96      1.03
>t r
1/  Based on the following mid-1476 fuel prices: vuel oil 28.88 U.S. cents/gallon                                           o x
and Diesel Fuel 40.61 U.S. cents/gallons.                                                                            O  i 
2/  Isolated plant.                                                                                                          r
February 1977                                                                                                             m



-4
P oA W i 1 S E r r 0 h
CI(AM?C1 IN ASSyr ACCOW?)'JJF
(44:lilono of Qn,ales\
1976       1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1'           1'           14IY, 196(                Ij,         13 68
Utility Pl-nt in Serv.I-;
At beginning of year                                                 70.92       76.36       119.46       145.64      224.58       317.37       366.63        543.13       732.03       735.68       '139.68     7A4.18        4 749.18
Plue trenf-er f-05 work In progres.                                   5,44       43.10       26.18        78.94        92.79        49.26       17,5.0       188. 10         3.85         48o0         4.50         5.00        5.60)
At end oF Year                                                       737        119,4 6     j 14562235                317.37       3            53.13           .          735.1        739.06       7 1            749.18   75
Work In Pr,gress:
At beg-ning of year                                                  39.28      106.94       187.20      281.48       322.89       331.08       345.75       201.29         19.86        24.40       116.61       330.18      593.42
Ploe c-pital Investment /                                            73.10      123.36      120.46       120.35       100.98        63.93        32.04         7.47          8.19        96.21       218.07       268.24      351.21
Less tro.fer to pl-nt In service                                      5.44       43.10        26.i8        78.94       92.79        49.26       176.50       188.90          3.65         4.00         4.50         5.00        5.60
At end of yeafr                                                                  I7. 2013    2UI.48       32.          31.0 U  3       .75      201.29   19il               24.40 l l     iZ,6       330.18       593.h2      93.0
Utility Placn in Servile:
A1t btnr   of r year44.69                                                       48.o6        51.89        56.30        61.87        68.43        76.16        87.23        95.83       108.16       122.48       139.43       159.24
PIost transfer f-,m work 1n progress                                 3.37        3.83         8.1,1        5.57         6.56         7.73         9.07        10.80        12.33        18.32        16.95        19.81       23.01
At end of yer                            iffw                                   9T88        3693          3157             3        5638         85.23        9 5.83      38556        122.5         139V3        159.24      IB590
Work In Progress:
At beginning of year                                                   .42         .52         .59          .68          .86         1.01         1.19         1.39         1.62         1.89         2.19         2.60         3.04
PIs capital inet-nt                                                  3.47        3.9          8.50         5.75         6.71         7.91         9.27        10.83        12.60        14.62        17.36        20.25       23.49
tatanfrto plaot In service                                    3E          3.8         8.81          5.57        6.56         7.73         9.07        10.60         12.33        114.32       i69          19.81       23.01
At end of Ye-r                                                         .52         .59                                  M.           2.19          39 0.602                              2.19      L26               9         23.52
1/  :orrmsponds to "Total  pplivations" In the So-roes acd Applicstions of Pnds Btate-nt (Atteh-nt C, Tfbie 2 for INODZ
and Attaohmnt D, Table 2 for EEG).
let rlan 19(1



Throgh Decem~ber33, 19~75       Out,,tacdig    Acs-tn
cl    Amount 1        Ac:,--:          Polo-u       OAlithOe            A .orti.stio-     Grac           inter--          oestet           Other
TINDS                                                Project            Year     C-rre-y         ou.- :     JLinrsed        Amort Lize d    12/31/75         1976                 Period        (year             Rate              e              fe
E.iStingBorwns
TOP (82/oc-GUt)                          Lo   ooace164                          us$         3.i5           3.15             1.62           1.53             -               09~67/3984         3          5.75%k p.-.       na
(301/0'-oiu)                         Chixoy                    1975         u3$        10.00          -                -               -           UjS$10.00            1983/2001        7-1/2       at P...           1.25% p.s.
(302/0C3.G0)                                                   19(5         135$       13.00          -JS-0315.00                                                       1979/1984        2-1/2   LI!Y901 . 3?5  P.-.  o.625% Pa.   0.625%  flat
(454/SF-Gil)                                                   0975         00$        45.00          -                                -US$45.00                        1986/uoi        10-1/2   1J     21  P.C.   0.5% P...
(6/VP-cu)                                                      1975         3j         35.00          -                                                                  98 33f~  31/2001  7-1/P     5  p.s.           1.25s%p.a.
T897T5          3.15            1TT9               r         sn;o
TBRp (487-00i)                           J.-i/Marinal              1967         u313       15.00          15.00             2.01          12.99             -               1971/1992          A          65% p.a           0.5% P.C..
(545-sU)                           G-tIanlte Th-1aa Piact 1968             03$         7.00          1.00             0.92            6.o8                             1972/1_991         3          6.25% p.C.       0.75% P.C..
998.M         25Z 10             2.93          19.07
US AI1D (520-L-019)                      Rural El-etrifi-ati-n   1971           Us$          7.00          5.61             -              3.91        u$.                  18 /001           10          2%]l  - 3%] 2/
GAPES (No.- 74)                          c"hoosy                   1974          10$         2.40          1.32             -                .32           i.o9             1977/1979          2          6% p.a.           0.75% P.C.
(Co. 79)                                     ~~~~~        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~         ~~1975  I3S9  5.40o                                    5.40             1981/1998          s          5  P.C.           0.35% P.a.
(N.- 75)                  M.~NYnta                  1974         03$         1.30          -                                -1.30                            1979/1982         2-1/2       5%p.a.            0.75% P.C.
TrCmei-si- w-rSe          1976        1:34         8.72                           --                             8.72              1981/1990          5          El% p.C.         0.75% P.C.
Agoa-pC                   1976         01$         3.48          -                                               3.48              1978/1982         2-i/2       6  P.C.          0.75% P.C.
21.30                                           1.32          T                                                                                      p..4
PONDS                                    ThreesC  PI.act            1923          3(        20.00         15.20             o.6o           14.60           4.80              1974/1988          -          VrosI-02%pa
FIV                                      Chixoy                    1976        Bol.$        32.80          -                -               -32.80                           1982/2000         6           E5% p.a. 
Total Esltimp Burrw- g-                                                         203125        N774B               .5             23           14377
IBRD798popceld                            AgoacpC                                133$       55.00          -- -                                              -               1980/1993         3-1/2    8.5% p.a.            0.75% p.a.-
CAPES                                    Aguacapa                                20$         5.29          ----1979/1983                                                                      2-1/u        % p.a.           0.75% P.a. 
Chiecy                                 033$        7.50          ----1981/1999                                                                        5          8% P.C.           0.7(5% p.a..
FIV                                      Agocoap.                  1977        Bol.3        30.00          -1 980/2001                                                                          3          5% P.a..
Potpie Borroings:
Yi                            ~~~~~Chi-oy                            Bul.$       37.20          ----1982/3000                                                                        2          8%p.s. 
(IVBRD)2/                     ~~Chi-oy                                01$        55.00          -                 --                              -198/1995                         3-1/2       A%P...            0.75%  p...-
(U,BT)2J                                 MOyutC (Feacibility Stu,dieC)          05$          2.57          ----1979/1981                                                                      2-1/2        6% p.a.          0.75%  Pa.--
(CAPEI)]/                                 Moycta (Ce..atr-tion)                 us$        18.44           ----1982/1996                                                                        5          N%P.a.           1.25% P.C..-
(cRaFt)]                       fransm~~~~~~Tt iCsin                   us$         [.06          ----1980/0988                                                                        2          6% P...           0.75% P...-
cABEI)5                                 Ieteecun..ectioc tdCt./E.S.            u5$          5.46          --                                               -1980/1996                          3          $pa07%pa                         
(mp(5                          Bo~~~~~~~~~~R.al El-etrifi-leaio       u3$        43.37          ----1984/20o6                                                                        7       2Ž3% P.. 1.00%  P...-
Boildieg                                9          4.87          ----1979/1983                                                                        2          5% P.a.                --
(CABES)]                                 Stde-Ptr   ydro                        03$         266            ----1979/1982                                                                        2          5%p.C.           0.-75% P.a.  
Fultur  Eopansion Peor. a               31       475.00]         -1988/2005                                                                          3-1/2       9% P.a.           0.75%  P.a.-
TOTAL INDE                                                                                                       T2$ 7-79=      4727.33       163.77
FEEC
PElotiog                                                                                                                                                                                           2      11r7o¶sicLIe:
Cha.e MChott- BCAm                       W-khing Capita.l           1974,        03$         1.50          3.533                            1.50            -1976                               2        1-7/15    P-.ud        
1BAm of A-erica- 1meaC                                              1975          Q          0.50          0.50              -               .50             -               1976               1           03% p.- 
First Rsin2City OCek (Gost-ola(                                     1975          Q          5.00          2.50              -2.5                          2.50              1977/1990         1-3/4   LIBOR + 1.75%  Pa.         -         0.75% flat
T0TAb CEG                                                                         7.00          4.50              -4.50                          2.50
PeedR SECTOR                                                                                   967.48          51.98             5.15          46.33          166.27
j   SJhlg the grac  period.
j   Srie  the acsotiesti-n period.n p
3/Of this totsl, 1330(30.0 million will be d-nlClnted i. 311 dollars Cod Us$5.0 million (Po.1.$2l.5 cllii o  eqniuleu-O ic Culi--co
Int-r-t rse usei-e  depending on holder:  Bmc  de  uteaa  2-1/2% p.o.; eossedll Lbob   sod ln---uc  -op-xO- 6  p.s..; ~u-i, up cc 1C90 p.a.
6<A-OA. .etimatred to be d-awdoo  during forecsst period.
Febro-y 19~7



111300110    AN   08180I0U    ~1111 I   8
(     f loD    01  .  dollar)                 0      1,     C       A      0 
lOB  (01 OC-Oll)                lisborY- sEmding                              ----            ---   -    ---          ----   ----            ----        -----  -----                         ---------                - -- --
(Atsorr.1ea~~~ior(               '0.342)     (0.18)      (0,18)      (0.18)      (0.18)      (0.18)       (0.18)      (0.18)      (0.09)        -           ---
lOB  (101/08-01)               ~~~~Disb-r-mt                                -            -           -          10.00        -            -           -           ----                                                          -
(A-t-ti-AA)                                  -           .           -           -           --                      (0.26)      (0.52)      (0.52)      (0.52)       (0.52)      (0.52)      (0.52)
lODB (302/OC.GIJ)                         Disbursemet.                                 -          1500         -            -                                    ---                                        
(A-oti-ti-B)                                -           -           -          (1.211       (2.73)      (2.73)      (2.73)      (2.87)       (2.73)       ----
IDB0 (451/1F-0u)                          Dieb.rsemet                                  5.25        2191       11.98         1.92       16.04        3.66         3.14        ------
(A-tsri-ti..)0                              -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -            -          (0.75)      (1.50)       (1.50)
IDB (6/VP-GLT)                            Disb---met                                   -           -            -           -          15.00       14.64         5.36        ---                                              --
(Amor~~~~lsalbsst    -           -           -            -           -       ~~~~~~~~ -     (0.92)       (0.84)      (1.84)      (1.84)      (1.84)       (0.84)      (0.84)
lORD (487-00G)                            Dl.b- -eset-                                                          -           -           -            -           ------
(A ..rti-atb-)                             )0.48)       (0.311      (o.54)      (0.57)      (0.61)      (0.64)       (0.48)      (0.72)      (0.78)       (2.80)      (0.84)      (0.88)       (0.92)
i811 (545-Gu)                             Di&.rs,se,                                   -            -           -           -                                    ---t                                                                
(A-aoti-ti-or                              (0.25)       (0.26)      (0.28)      (0.30)      (0.31)       (0.33)      (0.35)      (0.38)      (0.40)       (0.42)      )o.44)      (0.47)       (0.49)
U00 AID  (520-L-019)                      Disb  rs-met                                 1.19         -           -           -                        -           -------
(A.-oetlasb-r                               -            -           -           -           -           (0.02)      (0.23)      (0.23)      (0.23)       (0.23)      (0.23)       (0.23)      (0.23)
CABOT (N.o. 74)                           Disb --ast                                   1.08                     -           -           .           -            -------
(A.-otizselo-(                               -          (0.84)      (0.84)      (0.84)       -            -           -           -                        ----
CABOT  (N.. 75)                           Disobrs-aet                                  3.69         1.71        -           -           -            -           ----                                                         --
(A ..ot-ti-sle(                                    -           -                 -                       ).54)       (0.54)      (0.54)       (0.54)      (0.54)      (o.54(       (0.54)      (0.54)
cABOT  (moytl)                            Dl.burs-tn                                    1.15       0.15                    --           -            -           -                       -----
(A-ti.j.ti-)                                 -                 -                (0.33)      (0.32)       (0.33)      (0.32)       -            -                       ---
CABOT  )T-ansasslon                       Dil5,b- -at                                  6.16        2.56         -           -                        ---                                  -----
(A-sotlati.n)                                -           -           -           --                      (0.87)      (0.87)      (0.87)       (0.87)      (0.87)      (0.87)       (0.87)      (0.87)
CAB0I (Ag-acpa)                           Disb- -tsaa                                   3.40                                                                                                                                      
(A-torl -tion(                                     -                (0.38)      (0.77)      (0.78)       (0.77)      (0.78)       -            -           -                        --
BONDS (TAc-Ia Plant                       Olab--s,sn                                    4.80        -           -           -            -                       ------
(A-ti..ti..ls)                             (1.01)       (1.33)      (1.34)      (1.33)      (1.34)       (1.33)      (1.34)      (1.33)       (1.34)      (1.34)      (1.34)       (1.34)      (1.34)
23V (ChixoY)                              Di.b- -tsen                                  -          10.00        10.00       12.800                                                                        
(A..ti..ti.a.o)                              -           -           -               -        -                      (1.73)       (1.73)      (1.73)      (1.73)       (.73)       (1.73)      (1.73)
00A-10t.1s          OAsA,srssaen-t                              727F07       32.33       21.98       24.72       3.14         18.30        05                                                               
)0A-oti..tion(                             (1.92)       (3.08)      (3.52)      (5.49)       (8.77)      (7.84)    (10.93)    (11.21)    (11.05)          (8.29)       (9.10)      (9.92)      (9.98)
88885T3~~~089i98F ~~Dlsb,issaet                                              3.10        1.13        0.85        0.21         -           -            -           ----                                                          -
(A.-nlsti-tin(                               -           -           -          (0.59)       (1.37)      (1.17)      (1.17)       (1.19)       -           --                                    -
IBBOI (CM .oy)                            Di.bls--aet                                   -           4.60        2.90                                                                                                              
(A-,ti..ti.,)-                                                                   .                       (0.38)      (0.75)       (0.75)      (0.75)      (0.75)       (0.75)      (0.75)       (0.75)
TBIBO  (Aguae-pa(                         Diebors,-nt                                   -          23.37       08.19       13.44         -           --                                   -----
(A.-oti..tlod)                               -           -           -           -           (2.04)      (4.07)      (4.07)       (4.07)      (4.017)     (4.07)       (4.07)      (4.07)       (4.07)
02V (Ag-acps                              Di.b-.-,sst                                             1 3.00       12.00        5.00        -            --                                   -----
(Ametoatle-)                                 -                       -           -            1.6)       (1.36)      (1.36)       (I.36)      (1.36)      (1.36)       (1.36)      (1.36)       (I.36)
S.A-tot.l.                    Di54b-s-sst                                  U(-7 0 9               -33.98       00.A 6                                                         --- 
)Aaortsnatbor)          -            -           -         ~~~~~~~     ~~~~(0.59)  (4.97)  (6.98)  (7.35)    (7.37)       (6.18)      (6.18)      (6.18)       (6.18)      (8-.18)
Ot rBors.tn
)083733(1i431y                 ~~~~Diobces-et                                -           -            -           -          27.20       10.00         -                        -----
(AsOrtizatlon)                               -                       -                        -           -          (0.85)       (1.95)      (1.95)       (1.95)      (1.95)      (1.95)       (1.95)
IBRD (ChlosoY)                            Djeborases-t                                              9.63       14.62       23.62         7.13        -            ---                                              ---
)AaostlsseOon(                -            .    ~     ~      ~    ~      ~    ~ -  -  -    (4.07)      (4.07)       (4.07)      (4.07)      (4.07)       (4.07)      (4.07)       (4.07)
CAOIC (Boynta)                            Di.bnrsement                                  1.06        1.51        6.-31       7.46         4.67        --                                   -----
(A-,ti..ti..o)                               -           -           -          (0.64)       (32)        (0.65)       (0.61)      (1.23)      (1.23)       (1.23)      (1.23)      (1.23)       (1.23)
CABOT  (DaimsIn  oks                        Ab-sr...et                                  -           0.52        0.75        5.12         0.68        -                        ------
(lsnoeclnntlot)               .           ~     ~     ~     ~    ~~-  -  (3.13)  (0.58)    (0.45)      (0.32)       10.32)      (0.32)      (0.32)       (0.32)      (0.32)       (0.32)
IDB (BRal                                 Dirnllato(  lb.rs-met                         -           7.92        7.07        7.13         6.41        9.65         5.19        -                        ----
)DA-otizati-n)                                           -     -           -            -           -           -            -                (1.89)       (1.89)      (1.89)       (1.89)      (1.89)
CABOI (Otr     -n ut/E.D.)                Disbbr--st                                    -           2.03        3.19         0.24        -           -            -                       -----
(Assorti.atio)                               -           -           -            -          (0.32)      (0.32)       (0.32)      0(.32)      (0.32)       (0.32)      (0.32)       (0.32)      (0.32)
CABEI   Stodl..   h ydro)                 DisAbr- -et                                   -           1.92        0.87        0.18         -           ---                                  -                        ---
(Aaorti.ation)                               -           -           -           (0.44)      (0.89)      (0.99)       (0.45)                   -            ----
(Brldioss)                         DisA-ra-t                                    -           0.70         2.23        1.986       -            -           -                        -----
)A-neti.ation(                               -                       -           0.54)       (1.08)      (1.00)       (1.08)      (1.09)       -                        ---
ODt-r  Dyoro PrOjet                       Di.boresCld-                                              -  --                                            --                                              49.00       114.00      136.00       176.00
(A-noti..ti..-                                                                    -           -           -                                                 -           -            -         (20.00)
0Ssrh-tot.ls                  Disb- -emst                                  1.06        24.31       34.74       45.61       46.09        19.65        5.19         --                     49.00      114.00       136.00       176.00
(Aeo..ltscot-)                              _-          _-           -           ((5         (4.15)      (7.46)       (8.80)      (8           (9.78       (9.78)      (9.78)       (9.78)    (29.78)
'10CL INDE                    Dlohbr-emet                                 30.96        98.74       90.66       88.98        77.23       37.95       13.69               -                49.00       U4.00       136.00       176.oo
(Aonorti-ti-o)                              (1.92)      (3.08       )3.2(        (7.93      (14.99)    (22.28)   -(27.00)   _)2756(    (27.01)   -(24.25)    (25.06)    (25.88)    (45.94)
EEC,
OsOOtOng Boer-iltO
Chase M.bnAtta  Bank                      D-Sb-CsS5Cft-                                             -            -                       -            -------
(Assoti.atisn(                              (1.50)       -           -            -           -           -            -           -                        ----
(AmOrtosation(                               -           1.3  43)        3)      (143)       (2.71)        -                       -7           --                     -Z--                                   
TOTAL EEO                     Onsbuemet                     ~.50                        -            -           -           -            -           ---                                               ---
(Amsstisat4on(                  ~~~~(2.00)   (1.43)      (1.43)       (I.43)      (0.71)       -7
20,11   211720                                  Di.bDrs..sn                                 33.46      98.-71       30.6))      84.98)      77.23~       37.95       13.69         -           -          49.00       u14.00      136.00       176.00
(A-ti-ti-aAsn                                3921    (45            431         (.6         1.0)       ) 2)         (70)        (75)         27.01)    (24.25)    (25.06)    (25.88)    (45.94)



FSi$tz                4
*  4                                                  -?-22A4                                        1                <00cc Sic.-.
Sic,                                             -                    9                                  CJC'                             CDCOOCDCSi
Sit                                  Si       -   -.           CD                                             CcWCDCOCOOCO'CDCCD                        US  USi
COCDCD'                                           CD    "-''-'.''                                        3                C'S CHHHCD.Si
pa'S                                              'I                        -,                                              Si               CD-CUE
I                              ----.-'9-----.W                                                                         zSiSiSi>Si-cFCD   Si
HCOCD                                                     c<z-.-K'--'                                                                                      Si' Si 053
U                                                                  -                                                                                         c   I   C   C
CD'CD.CD                                   'CD
gfCDSi Si                                                          CDSiSiCSiSiSiZSiSi
a   -                                         CD  CD   CD     CD   C'
CD                                   -           CD       CD  CD  CD
CD,     o            -  -   o                                                        CD
o                                             CD       Si  Si  -b  CD
-,                                           i        -I  CD  CD.  CD
o                                                      CD  Si  CD
'CD                                                    CD
CD            Si                            QCD CDCDCD  CDCDCD CD CDCDCDCDCDCDSi          Si  Si  CDCDCD       CDCDSiCDCDCDCDSiSiCDCDCDCDCDSiCDSiCDCDCDCD SiSi Si Si CD CD
CD            Si                            CDSi flSiSi flSijSigSi Si                 Si  Si                       Si SiSiSim  SiSiSiSCD oH SiH SiCD OH Si
CD                                                  CD  '1
CD            CD                            rn   DPCDCCDECCD  *0rm<'"                   CD  CDCD CD         CD  CD  CD CCHCDCDCD    CDCDCDCCD CD CD CD a CD lCD Si
CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCD        CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCD       CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCtCDCDCDCDCDaaCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCD
CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCD       CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDU
CD            Si                            CDOCOSiSiSiOSiHOCcSiCDSiSiSiSiSi            Si
CD                                          CD  CD  CD   CD  CD  CD  CD   CD  CD        CD   CD  CD                   CD  CD  Si  Si  CD   CD  CD  CD    .0  CD  CD  Si  Si
CD  CD  CD  CDCDCDCDCDSi                    Si  Si  Si
CD CDCD CD CD CDCDCD CDCDCD CD
CCSi    Si                                                     00                         Si  SiC            HSiSiSiSiSiSiSicCSiSi   Si  Si  Sic   000   Si    Si  Si
Si    falls        fI'll,  SicIIi                   'tact  Si Si    Sit aciSiC-'Sic SiSiSiSiSiSi .-tSiCi-'S -SiC SiSiSiC  Sit   Si
Si                    Si  iS                           Sic                        Si                                                                 Si
Si                      CD                 C'SH Si.CDCYSiSCHSiSiSi  Cc-C   <Si  SiSCCO            Si
Si                    CSi          SiOSiOOCOCDOOOSiO                        SiSi'SiSiSiSi        Si  Si  SiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiSi   Si  Si  00   SiSiSiSiSi    Si I
Si                           I a I SiOSiSiSi CD'SSi HSiC-' H HSiC  I       SiSiCSiSiSiSiSi       SI Sit SiC SiSiSiSiSi,C-' H' HIO' <Si' <SiSi COSt 'Si  I
Si                    Si           HC-CcCHSiC,iSi  F'Si  Sic                SiSiSiSiSi Sic               HHSi  Si  Si         SiSi  Sic   SiSiSi-SiSi    Si
CDCDCDo*o  CDCDCD                       CDCDCD*CD SiD'
MS      Si                         Si       SiCDCOOOOSiCSiCSiH                      SiSiSiSiSiOSi    <Si  H   Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  SiSi  SiSi  -Si    Si
* CD'.
Si ii at aHC-'---'Sic SirSiSiHrSiSiSiSi II IC.CCH CSiC-'Si SiSiICSi ISitSiISiCSitSl SISI-CSiIHHICOSiI 'Si
H Si  CSiSiCSiSiiSiCSiSiC Sic SiSic SiSi Si Si I-, Si Si SiSirSiSiSioSi <Si -'Sc Si
CDCDCDDCD*           CD     CD       CD  CD  CD
Cc      Si                                  Si  CZOCSiSiOSiSiSiC-Si                 SiSiSi  SiSiSi       Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  cc   Sic   ccc   c  CSi
S.                             .   .
CDCDiCDCDCDCD                      Si  CD
HO      Si                            I''  Sit HSiSicSiiSicSiCSi-ca  '           C SiSiSit SiSiSi       Sit Sit cISC  ct Sit Si, HISSI SiSil Sic' ccc,  c  I--s
aSi    Si                      Si  Si       Si  Si  LOSiSi                          SiSiSi  Si  CSi      Si  Si  Si  Si  SiC'S<Si'c   <Si  <Si  SCOSi  Si  'Si
CD                                                  CD       CD      CD      CD   CD  CD
1<      Si                     Si  Cc       Si  Si  SiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiSi  Si          Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  H  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  SiSi  SiSi  Si  Si  Si 'Si
DSi    Si                             lIt  HI HI HSiSiSiSiSiC SiSit Si             Ccl CCDI Si  Si    <Si Sit,-'CSiC  Sit SiC SiC SiISii* SiiSiI Si'S' Si' ' o
to      iSi                    CO          'Si  H     COH  SiL.CSiSiSi  Si   Si  Si  Si  Si  Si          Si  SiSiSiSiSiSiSiSitSi                                       Si
Si      CD  CDCDCDCDCD   CD                CD           CD               Si  CD  -              CD  0*     CD  CD
tic                            Si  Si
<<      USi                                         Si  Si  SiSiSi  Si  Si  Si  Si          Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  Si  Sic   Sic   c   Si  Si
Si    a'    clef  Si.-'SitSitSiCSiISi              I HISiSSiC  Si         Si*iCCtcSiICClSi''  S 'SiIcSiSi-' Si Si  Si' SCSi   SiC
Cc                             Si  Si       Si  Si  SiCCOSi  Si  Si  Si  CO         Si  Cci  Si  o    Sic  'SiSiSiSiSSi               SiSiSiSiSi Si  Si  Si  Si  Si
<'CD    CC                                               CD      CD           CD  CD                  CD          Si                   Si                CD   CDCD  CD  CD
A     CC
Si  c   ccc   c   Si  Si  Si            Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  Si  Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  Si  Si  SiSiSi  Si  Si  Si  Si
SiSi  . ......Si
aSi     '                             I''  Sit SilSiSSiSilcit  Sit Sil Si           Sit c'Si'  H       SiSil Cc' SilSil Situs 'llSi'Si'  Si' SiSiSi'Si' Si' Si  Si
IS                             Si              ,-  <'Sic   Si'CDSiCO                C'SSiSi  H         <Si  Cc  Si  'Si  Si  Si       Si  Si  Si  SiSiSi  Si  Si  Si
SiSi                                                    CD   CD                                                  t                                        CDCDCD
Si          Si       Si  Si  Si   Si  Si  Si         Si    Si  Si  Si     Si  Si      Si      Si       Si  Si  Si  Si   Si  Si  Si  Si    C H
'lCD                                            ''Sit  J'Sil Si'SiSitCSi' etc               Si' Si' Si' Si       Si's lltSiuIC'SiIc I SiCSI  SiC Si'  '1<10
OH      ICc                                         Si       Si  Si  SiC  Si Si  Si         Si  Si  Si  Si       Si  Si       Si      Si      SiSiSiSiSiSiSiHISi
Si
i-Si    j
lCD     CJSi
Si  Si  Si           Si  Si      Si      Si       Si  Si  Si        Si
Si  'SC EDt   ''SCAt SitSifctSiISi                  SilSilSil  I          SiISi.CISiICISIII  H   Si  Si                   Si
                                                          Si    Si  Si  Si    Si  Si     Si  Si   Si          Si    Si     Si      Si      Si   Si  Si        Si
I                              Ci                   SiSiSiHSicSiCSi    Si                                Si  Si      Si       Si      Si  Si  Si                       CD.
Si  Si    Si    Si                          Si    Si    Si       Si      Si    Si  Si       Si
Cf     '                                 tatICI4,  Sit Cc'SiS  Si               ' ' HI'S''            H'Si   ICSiIIISIII  H   Si  Si                  Si
Si          SiSiSiSiSic                     Si  Si  Si           Si  Si      Si       Si      Si  Si  Si        i-C
IC        SCSI
tilt rSitDiCC'IIga$fSi                 51<1<
I                                       C-         Si  Si   Si  Si  Si  Si         Si  Si  Si           Si  Si       Si      Si      Si  Si   Si        Si
Si  Si  SiICOISi'H             Si  Cfl  Si          Si  Si       Si      Si      Si  Si  Si         Si
C fIt    'Sit HI                           ISilSiCt Sit I         Sf5.5 ftsCcIICSiIII  H   Si  SiC                Si
I                              . .                                              . ."YS                 .P    P   P   2??                                V
if      '                               8   a''   Sit Si.Si,SiISi'                ISilSiacI  ,           <ICc CIIH'IIHIII  H   Si  S.C                   Si
Cc  Si  Si  CO  Si             Si  Si  Si           Cc  Si       Si      -        Si  Si  Si        Si
H ;CDOCDCD4CDCDfly
't XNNV



APPRAISAL OF AGUACAPA POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION (INDE)
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
INTERNAL
AUDITORS
|GENI RAL
MANAGER
IAND METHODS
PUBLC
DEPUTY                                                                                                                      DEPUTY
MANAGER                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAN AGER
|  (ADMINISTRATIONI) l                                                                                              l       (ENGINEERING)
SERVICES    E                                      ~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~LEGAL  PLNIG  PROJECTS    CONSTRUCTION      OPERATIONS       COMMERCIALADCPAHIY
SUPL          ACDNG             PERSONNEL                                                              GNRTOSUEVIN                        LADCENTRIAL
03  [<2 H1                       91  {<  {<1 4<1 q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISPATCHINGI SYTE
PROCUREMENT      TREASURE           PAYROLL                                          |PEMIAY|           SUBSTATIONS                         OCCIDENTAL       OCCIENTA
SYSTEM  EIS   3SYSTEM
DISTRIBUTION                                                                             ANDETA 
FINANCES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~TANMSSO
FUEL &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LUBRICANTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SBSAIN
FASSISTANCE
JMUNICIPALITIES
World B-nk-16447






ME    Xl   CO~~~~INTTTONCONLD EETIFCCO
ANTA CR52                                                   OA
-"~~~~EL  PiQGRE~~~~~~~~~~~OR
A                                                                                                                             HAiFA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~idlLA1r
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                TSTT 
JALAP'A-W'                            L    S~~~~~~~~~~FERe  P q.JCT, SyAET-
F-                                    -~~~~                       DEPOETFEFA  ScATdcF~~~~~~~~~23
ANTIC,11~~~~~~~~~~/                                                               FETFAEBcTo,
I                                                               ERINJCFTEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69k
34  RN
Itt.  SA  y413~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



