DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Us
FILE COPY
Report No. 92a-IND
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 27, 1973
Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be publised, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           -  Rp 415
Rp 1           -  USJO.24
Rp 1 million   -  US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                   British/US
1 millimeter (mu)               -  0.04 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)               -  0.39 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                     .  3.28 feet (ft)       3
1 cubic meter (3)               -  35.29 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilometer (km)                -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer. (km')       -  0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                     -  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
3  0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)            -  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMB
MPW       - Ministry of Public Works and Power
DGE       -  Directorate General of Highways
PNKA      -  Indonesia State Railways
TCAS      -  Transport Coordination Advisory Services
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programe
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
ADT       - Average Daily Traffic
PCU       -  Passenger Car Units
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....        ....................    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................1
A.   The Project .......       .........................      1
B.   Previous Transportation Projects        ...........      1
C.   Bank Group Lending Strategy ....       ............      1
D.   Project Preparation .......................              1
II.  BACKGROUND ....2............                                   2
A. Economic Setting ..                                        2
B.   Transportation ...... ...............                    2
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination        ..........      4
III.   HIGHWAYS      .................................               6
A.   The Network .......     ......................           6
B.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth    .........          6
C .  Administration ..........  ......  ........... .         7
D.  Financing ....... ................                        7
E.  Planning and Engineering .................                8
F.   Construction ......      .........................       8
G. Maintenance  ....                                          8
H.   Training .......    ........................             9
IV.   TEIE PROJECT ........      .............................      9
A.   Description ................................             9
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange
Component .............................           11
C.   Project Financing and Execution ....      ........      13
D.   Disbursements ..............................            14
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............................            15
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... .......           17
This report was written by Messrs. R.F. Einthoven (Economist) and J.R. Howard
(Engineer), and edited by Mr. A.M. Laing.



-2-
ANNEXES
A.   Previous Transportation Projects
B.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
TABLES
1.  The Public Highway System
2.   The Public Highway System - Type of Surface
3.   The Public Highway System - Design Load-Carrying Capacity
4.   Geometric Design Standards
5.   Vehicles Registered, 1961-1971
6.   Motor Vehicle Registrations - Geographic Distriction, 1971
7.   Budget Summary of Directorate-General of Highways
8.   Project Benefits
CHART
MAPS
1.  North Sulawesi - Construction Location
2.   Java - Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Location



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRI) HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Indonesian transport system comprises marine services which
link the island network, and highways and railways which connect the interiors
of islands with their ports. Java has an extensive railway and highway net-
work, but on the other islands land transport is less developed and often is
concentrated only around major towns and ports. During the many years of
economic stagnation, maintenance was neglected and the transport system
deteriorated The highway network totals 82,000 km with about 15,000 km
paved and, as a result of a rehabilitation and maintenance program begun in
1970, its condition and load carrying capacity are slowly improving. There
are about 7,000 km of railway located on Java, Sumatra and Madura, the main
railway lines and rolling stock of which are in urgent need of rehabilitation.
Some secondary lines are uneconomic and should be closed. There are about
300 ports but only 20 have facilities to serve ships over 500 tons at quay-
side. All ports have been neglected and rehabilitation is now underway.
Repair and re-equipment of part of the inter-island shipping operation and
shipyards were started on a large scale in 1972. Air transport, which uses
Indonesia's two international and 36 domestic airports, is growing rapidly.
ii.       During the first years of the current Five Year Plan (1969-73)
transport investments remained relatively low, because need> and priorities
were unclear. Investments are now rapidly increasing and 15% of the Central
Government's Development Program for 1973/74 has been allocated for highways.
The development of adequate quantitative analyses for the determination of
investment priorities in the transport sector will remain a problem for some
time because of a shortage of data and of qualified Indonesian staff. A
UMDP-financed Transport Coordination Advisory Services team of 7 foreign
experts is assisting the Department of Communications and the National
Planning Council with investment planning, policy matters and data collection.
Road transport rates and fares are low, which is specially due to competition
from military trucks. During negotiations the need to gradually eliminate
commercial transport in military vehicles and to study measures required to
encourage renewal of the transport fleet was discussed and agreed with the
Government.
iii.      The Association has financed three transport projects in Indonesia:
two for highways (1969 and 1971), and one for shipping (1972).  All three are
expected to be satisfactorily completed on time.  This fourth transport
project comprises: construction of two highway sections in North Sulawesi
totalling about 124 km and two bridges, and supervision by consultants;
feasibility study of about 300 km of highway and related feeder roads on
Java and subsequent detailed engineering if justified; technical assistance
to the Directorate General of Highways; and the training of highway maintenance
personnel. Pre-investment studies for the highway sections to be constructed
were carried out by consultants in 1970-71 under the UNDP-financed "Indonesia
1963-1970 Highway Services" for which the Association was executing agency;



- ii -
detailed engineering, also by consultants, was financed from Technical
Assistance Credit 216-IND and completed in January 1973. The project was
appraised in October 1972.
iv.       The estimated cost of the prcject is US$19 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$14 million. Cost estimates for construction are
based on unit prices obtained recently in bidding for similar work in
Indonesia and on detailed quantities. Cost estimates for construction super-
vision, pre-investment studies and detailed engineering and technical assist-
ance are based on previous contracts for similar services in Indonesia. The
training is a continuation of an on-going training service presently being
financed under the First Highway Project (Credit 154-IND) and from which cost
estimates are derived.
v.        The Directorate General of Highways, a branch of the Ministry of
Public Works and Power, will execute the project. Consultants will assist
in the supervision of construction, feasibility study and detailed engineering,
technical assistance and training services. Highway construction will be
carried out by contract with bidding according to the Associarflon's guidelines
for international competitive bidding. Contracts will be based on unit rates
and are expected to be awarded in September 1973. A few local contractors have
been prequalified on their own or in joint venture with foreign firms. The
highway construction is located in farming areas where the population
density is low and unemployment minimal, and the work force required for a
normal equipment-usage operation (about 500 men) will absorb much of the avail-
able and suitable local labor. Labor-intensive construction methods would
offer only scattered, short term and seasonal work opportunities, which the
Government does not consider to be a suitable basis for the transfer of labor
from Java, the main source. The Govzernment therefore decided to carry out
the work by normal equipment-usage methods.
vi.       The proposed credit of US$14 million will finance the foreign
exchange costs of the proposed project. Credit funds will be aQ:sbursed on
the basis of 65% of the cost of the highway construction item and 85% of
the cost of consultant's services (the estimated foreign exchange components).
The Government intends to finance the local costs as part of the DGH annual
budgets and during credit negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government on the provision and timely disbursement of adequate local funds.
vii.      Construction of the new highway sections will lead to an increase
in rice production in what is now a rice deficit province. This project is
also expected to stimulate the output of copra and other agricultural
products but, due to the shortage of statistical data, these benefits could
not be quantified. Further quantified benefits will be vehicle operating
savings and road maintenance savings. The project will also result in better
administration and political and social integration. On the basis of only
the quantified benefits, the economic return will be 13%.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  The Project
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Association for a credit
to help finance a project comprising: construction, including supervision,
of about 124 km of highway and two bridges in Sulawesi; feasibility studies
and detailed engineering of about 300 km of highway and 250 km of related
feeder roads in Java; technical assistance for the preparation of a highway
betterment program; and training of highway maintenance personnel.
B.   Previous Transportation Projects
1.02      The Third Highway Project will be the fourth Association-financed
transportation project in Indonesia. Details concerning the two previous
highway projects and the shipping project are given in Annex A.
C.   Bank Group Lending Strategy
1.03      Indonesia's development objectives during the current Five-Year
Development Plan (1969-73) include the increase of exports, the reduction
of rice imports and stabilization of consumer prices. All transport projects
financed by the Association are contributing to these objectives: rehabil-
itation of highways and shipping, and new highway construction should through
lower transport costs and the opening up of new areas, generate agricultural
production and stabilize consumer prices. The proposed project will continue
to contribute to these aims.
D.   Project Preparation
1.04      The highway sections to be constructed under this project were
identified and feasibility studies were carried out by consultants under the
UNDP-financed "Indonesia 1968-1970 Highway Services" (the Highway Services)
for which the Association was executing agency. The detailed engineering,
also by consultants, was financed from Technical Assistance Credit 216-IND.
The project highway sections to be studied and subsequently engineered arose
from preliminary investigations carried out under the High,eyr Services.
1.05      The First Highway Project, which is scheduled for completion by
the end of 1973, includes an element of training. The government now wishes
to extend and expand highway training operations, and the project therefore
covers the continuation of consulting services for the training of highway
maintenance personnel.
1.06      This report is based on information provided by the Government
and consultants, on the findings of the October 1972 appraisal mission



-2-
composed of Messrs. R.F. Einthoven (Economist) and J.R. Howard (Engineer)
and on an evaluation of the agricultural aspects in January 1972, by Mr. J.
Paardekooper (consultant). The report was edited by Mr. A.M. Laing.
II. BIACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 3,000 islands stretching
5,000i km along the equator. The land area, 70% of which consists of the
four major islands of Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi, is about 1.9
million km2. (see Map). The population in 1971 was about 118 million, grow-
ing at the rate of about 2.5% per annum. Population pressure is intense
in Java where about 75 million people live in an area of only 132,000 ki2, but
vast areas of other islands are underpopulated. To ease the population pres-
sure, the Government is encouraging migration from Java, Madura and Bali to
other islands, but with only limited success so far.  Urbanization is
accelerating and the population in the capital, Jakarta, now approaches 5
million.
2.02      The economy has recovered from the stagnation and -ap~d inflation
prevalent during most of the past decade which, among other things, led to
serious neglect and disorganization of the transport system. Since 1969,
output and investment substantially increased in all major sectors. The return
to stability has established confidence in the Government's economic policies
and provided an environment conducive to economic growth. The Government's
commitment to development through free market policies and free access to
foreign exchange also has stimulated a high inflow of private foreign capital
and foreign aid.
2.03      The economy of Indonesia depends primarily on agriculture.  In the
agricultural sector the Government has two main targets: to increase
production of estate and smallholder crops for export and to ->:zome self-
sufficient in rice production. Adequate transport facilities vill make new
are.as accessible and reduce transport cost, thereby stimulating production
and stabilizing consumer prices. The project road will contribute directly
to rt . Government's agricultural targets and will help to increase rice,
copra and palm oil production.
B.   Transportation
(a) General
2.04      The Indonesian transport system comprises marine services which
link the islands, and highways and railways which provide the inland
transport facilities on the islands. Land transport is well developed in
Java with an extensive railway and highway network while in Sunaatra railways
have been developed only in some parts, and the road network is limited to
basic links between principal cities. On the other islands, except for



- 3 -
Madura, no railways exist and in many cases the road system is limited to
areas around towns and ports. The air transport volume is still very small,
but has increased rapidly in the last few years. Most transport facilities
have been neglected and require rehabilitation to their original condition,
betterment works or sometimes complete reconstruction. Considerable amounts
of transport data have been collected but their reliability is uncertain.
No reliable statistics on distribution of traffic by modes, general transport
costs or tariffs are available.
(b) Highways
2.05      The highway network consists of about 82,000 km of all standards,
with about 15,000 km paved (Tables 1 and 2). Details of the highway sector
are given in Chapter III.
(c) Railways
2.06      The Indonesian State Railways (PNKA), comprising about 6,200 km of
1.067 m gauge and 600 km of narrow gauge track, are badly in need of rehabili-
tation. Apart from the about 5,000 km system on Java, there are 4 separate
systems on Sumatra and one line on Madura. On many sections, the road bed,
track and bridges are in such poor condition that speeds and loads are
severely restricted. Motive power consists of about 850 steam and 300 diesel
locomotives, the utilization facitor of which is only 55%-65% due to age,
lack of spare parts and operational inefficiency. The utilization of rolling
stock is low for the same reasons. PNKA's labor force is excessive, but has
been reduced from 88,000 in 1966 to 70,000 in 1972 and a further reduction
by some 20,000 is planned for the next 8-10 years.
2.07      In November 1972 a Bank mission evaluated the viability and needs
of PNKA, and concluded that main line railway transport will continue to
perform an important function, especially in a densely populated area such
as Java. Freight transport by rail mainly consists of petroleum products,
food grains, construction materials and plantation products over medium to
long distances; a large volume of passenger traffic is also carried. With
the introduction of better roads3 and larger trucks, competition will increase,
but improved organization and more efficient operation of the railways could
easily keep the main lines compietitive with road transport. Some of the
network's secondary and branch lines are uneconomic and will have to be
closed; studies for this are presently underway. A forthcoming railway
appraisal for a possible IDA credit will evaluate the railway's investment
requirements and technical ass:lstance needs.
(d) Ports and Shipping
2.08      Indonesia is dependeant on inter-island shipping for internal com-
munications and on ocean shipping for its imports and exports. The country
has about 300 ports, but only 20 have facilities to serve ships over 500
tons at quayside. The major ports for dry cargo are Tandjung Priok and
Surabaja on Java and Belawan on North Sumatra, each having approximately
2,500 ship calls in 1970 by p)owered vessels. The major port for petroleum



- 4 -
products is Palembang on Sumatra, where about 2,000 tankers cailed in 1970.
A series of studies on short-term port requirements has been comapleted under
assistance from the Netherlands. It was concluded that port capacities are
generally adequate but extensive dredging and rehabilitation of the infra-
structure are required, while port operations should be improved. Port
rehabilitation work is now underway, assisted by ADB, the Netherlands and
Japan. Further studies on long range port requirements will be started soon.
2.09      The inter-island shipping fleet of Indonesia has considerable
excess capacity which has affected the financial viability of the shipping
companies and their ability to maintain their vessels adequately. In June,
1972 the Association granted a credit for repair and re-equipment of part of
the inter-island shipping fleet and technical assistance for shipyards.
Over-age ships will be phased out.  A long term study to determine the needs
of inter-island shipping will be financed by the Netherlands.
(e) Aviation
2.10      Air transport which is using Indonesia's two principal international
airports (at Kamajoran/Jakarta on Java and at Nguach Rai on Bali) and 36
domestic airports, is growing rapidly. Jakarta is served by a large number
of international airlines and the facilities at Kamajoran airport are becoming
inadequate. A study financed by USAID to determine the site of a new airport
was recently completed and concluded that an entirely new airport will be
required by about 1980. In the interim, the Indonesian Government is making
arrangements to use Halim Air Force Base close to Jakarta for international
air traffic. Several of the domestic airports are now also being used by
commercial jet aircraft, but ground facilities of these airpcrts are still
inadequate and they are normally open only during daylight hours, which is
an important factor in the under-utilization of domestic aircraft. Internal
air transport has greatly improved over the past 5 years and there are now
four airlines with scheduled internal flights. Even though the demand for
internal air transport is growing rapidly, capacity on certain routes is
excessive.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.11      The current Five-Year Development Plan (1969-73) includes a Rp 200
billion ('US$483 million) investment target for transport. The plan was pre-
parc. without adequate information and can only be considered as a rough
framework for investment. Investments have been low during the early
years because needs and priorities were unclear. Investment activity is
now rapidly increasing for all modes and for roads on all administrative
levels it may reach as much as Rp 100 billion (US$242 million) during the
current Plan period. During the Indonesian fiscal year 1973/74, Rp 24 bil-
lion (US$58 million) is included in the Central Government's Development
Program for the Rupiah component of road rehabilitation and construction.
This amount represents 15% of the total Development Program for 1973/74.



- 5 -
2.12      Proposals for highway construction originate from the Directorate-
General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works and Power, and for
other modes, from the Directorates-General of Sea Communications, Aviation,
and Land Transport in the Ministry of Communications. The project proposals
are reviewed by planning bureaus of these ministries and subsequently by
the Communications and Infrastructure Division of the National Planning
Council (BAPPENAS), which is responsible for determining the total investment
budget for the sector. The presentations, however, are such that comparisons
of projects even within one transport mode are difficult. Neither the
Ministries nor the Planning Council have adequate qualified staff to prepare
or evaluate investment proposals, and foreign experts from the UNDP-financed
Transport Coordination Advisory Services (TCAS), for which zhe Bank is
executing agency, are being used for this purpose. The Barnk Group Resident
Staff have also assisted in evaluating investment proposals.
2.13      Determination of investment priorities in the transport sector
will remain a serious problem for some time, mainly because of a lack of
qualified Indonesian staff and the shortage of reliable data, especially with
relation to past performance, transport costs and existing and future sources
of traffic. In addition to assisting the National Planning Council in their
task of transport investment planning, the TCAS team also advises on policy
matters and problems of data collection. TCAS started work about 3 years
ago and now consists of 7 experts. The Bank is presently reviewing the
team's accomplishments and the Government's future requirements in order to
determine further needs for technical assistance.
2.14      Data on transport pricing are still very incomplete, but a number
of problems have been identified which could easily lead to distortions. The
Government's regulations in this field are frequently inconsistent and without
a sound basis.  Not much harm is done, however, due to the lack of a properly
organized enforcement mechanism. Many vehicles are extremely old making them
expensive to operate and repair; they break down frequently which leads to
delays and sometimes spoilage of agricultural products.  Vehicle renewal is
hampered by low revenues and the high cost of financing new vehicles.  Low
rates and fares are encouraged by the public's acceptance of unreliable
service and through competition from military vehicles, which often offer
transport at less than variable cost. The latter problem specially inhibits
the development of a modern and viable road transport induE^?y.  The TCAS team
is studying the problems of road transport and has prepared a report on road
user charges which the Government and the Association are reviewing. During
credit negotiations the need to gradually eliminate commercial transport in
military vehicles and to study measures required to encourage renewal of the
transport fleet was discussed and agreed with the Government. Railway rates
and tariffs for many of the services presently provided are insufficient to
cover their economic cost, a problem which will be considered in a future
railway project.



- 6 -
III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The public highway system, which is generally adequate in extent,
totals 82,000 km, of which about 15,000 km are paved. the highways are
defined as "national" (10,000 km), "provincial" (22,000 km) and "district"
(50,000 km) indicating their relative importance and the basis for defining
administrative, financial and executive procedures associated with construction
and maintenance. In addition, agricultural estates and oil companies construct
and maintain roads outside the system. Table 2 shows the system by surface
type.
3.02      For vehicle weight control purposes the system is presently divided
into six classes. For each class a maximum permissible axle-load (ranging
from 1.5 to 7.0 tons) is designated (Table 3).  For design pur-oses the
Government has recently adopted new geometric standards (Tabl- ,) based on
recommendations of the Highway Services. Appropriate standards, related to
traffic and terrain, have been designated for primary and secondary highways
and feeder roads. Pavement designs for new highway construction are based
on an 8-ton single axle-load and structural designs on standards recommended
by the Highway Services. The new geometric and structural standards are
satisfactory and will gradually be applied to the system.
B.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth
3.03      In 1971 (excluding Armed Forces vehicles and motorcycles) there
were about 393,000 registered vehicles, of which 257,000 were cars, 113,000
trucks and 23,000 buses (Tables 5 and 6).  Inspection records indicate that
only about 60% of the vehicles are in regular use because the `Ieet is old
and spare parts for the estimated 74 different makes are difficult to obtain.
About 60% of the trucks now in use are over nine years old and their average
capacity does not exceed 3.5 tons.
3.04      Comprehensive traffic counts were resumed in 1970 after a lapse of
about 10 years and were based on recommendations of the Highway Services to
the Government on traffic counting requirements and methods. Regular
traffic counts are now made at some 890 stations on the national and pro-
vin. .al highways and a series of origin and destination surveys on national
highways has been started. Traffic development and growth rates are dif-
ficult to assess because of the lack of pre-1970 figures. But the Govern-
ment has a satisfactory program for the continuation and expansion of traf-
fic counting and is developing a program for the collection c;f road transport
data for use in highway planning.
3.05      The Department of Land Transport of the Ministry of Communications
controls vehicle weights and dimensions, but presently carries out checks
only on national highways. Overloading of vehicles is widespread and has
contributed to the deterioration of the roads and the possibility of bridge
collapses. The Highway Services recommended, and the Government accepted,



a national policy on vehicle weights and dimensions which calls for gradual
adoption of new regulations in line with modern standards. The policy
takes into account the low design axle-loads (1.5-7.0 tons) and poor con-
dition of much of the existing highway system.
3.06      Credit 260-IND (Second Highway Project) requires the Government to
introduce, as soon as practicable, appropriate regulations :Li-,liting vehicle
dimensions and axle-loads, and effectively enforce the regu.AL-ions.  The
Government has enacted vehicle weight regulations which are satisfactory in
relation to the present load carrying capacity of the highway system.
The regulations should, however, be reviewed and amended as required by
changes in the highway system. Effective enforcement of the regulations
throughout the highway system remains a problem. During credit negotiations
an assurance was obtained from the Government that it will review and amend
the vehicle weight regulations as necessary and continue to take measures to
effectively enforce the regulations.
C.  Administration
3.07      Administration of the public highway system follows the three
classification tiers.  The Central Government, through the L. i is responsible
for national highways; provincial administrations are responsible for provincial
highways and district administrations for district roads. The DCH is part
of the Ministry of Public Works and Power (NPW), which includes, among other
branches, the Directorates General of Irrigation and of Housing and Building
(see Chart). This aggregation of functions within the MPW is repeated at
the provincial level where provincial works organizations are responsible for
highways, irrigation, and buildings.
D. Financing
3.08      The Central Government finances construction of national highways,
provincial highways of national or inter-provincial importance, and main-
tenance of national and most provincial highways. Provincial2 governments
similarly finance district road construction and maintenance.
3.09      Reliable figures are not available on past expenditures by the
DCI for construction and maintenance, but the DGH asserts that expenditures
approximated budget allocations. Table 7 shows allocations for 1969-70
through 1972-73. The total allocation has risen from US$28 million in
1969-70 to US$58 million in 1972-73. Over the same period maintenance
allocations have increased from US$0.5 million to over US$12 million.
3.10      In 1970 the Highway Services made detailed recommendations for new
accounting procedures for the DGH, which provide a satisfactory means of
monitoring the use of highway funds and establishing actual expenditures.
The Government accepted the recommendations in principle and the DGH is
currently operating the procedures on a trial basis. During credit negotia-
tions a program for the full adoption of the new procedures by the DGH was
discussed and agreed with the Government.



- 8-
E.   Planning and Engineering
3.11      New construction and major improvement works on national highways
are initially selected by the Directorate of Planning and Survey of the DGR
(Chart) and then submitted to the National Planning Council for approval.
Subsequent detailed investigation and engineering are the responsibility
of the Directorate of Planning and Survey. Planning and engineering of
provincial highways are carried out either by the Directorate of Planning
and Survey or the provincial works organization, depending on the complexity
of the work and availability of staff. Advice and assistance with highway
planning was originally covered by the First Highway Project and is now
provided by a team of four individually appointed advisers (three engineers
and one economist for two years) financed by UIIDP.
3.12      The quality of DGH and provincial PWD personnel is generally
satisfactory, but the capacity of the organization for planning and engineer-
ing is limited by a shortage of professional and technical staff. The Planning
and Survey Directorate has 35 civil engineers, a small number for the heavy
workload. Provincial professional engineering staff, who also deal with
irrigation and building works, range from a maximum of 20 per province in
Java and Morth Sumatra to less than 10 per province in the remainder of the
country.  This situation is an outcome of the scarcity of graduate engineers
(about 120 per year for both public and private sectors), poor working
conditions and low pay. The Government has taken steps to improve civil
service pay in stages and 1973 salaries are generally four times the 1969 level.
F.   Construction
3.13      Locally-financed construction is normally carried out by Provincial
Public Works Departmental forces, assisted by small contractors who supply
labor and local materials such as stone, but use equipment and manufactured
materials provided by the Department. Since construction programs have
been small in recent years, growth of local contractors has been inhibited
and few are capable of undertaking major highway construction works.
Major highway construction, such as that under the Second Highway Project,
is executed directly by the DGH, which presently employs foreign contractors.
Local contractors are participating as sub-contractors in the construction
work financed under the Second Highway Project and are gradually acquiring
the e.-n>rtise in highway construction operations necessary to handle larger
jo ,.  Some local contractors have been prequalified for the ,ighway construction
in the proposed project.
G.   Maintenance
3.14      During the many years of economic stagnation, maintenance was
neglected and the highway system deteriorated seriously. Some paved lengths
degenerated into gravel or stone surfaced roads and many unpaved roads became
little more than dry season tracks. Lack of maintenance also seriously
affected steel bridges; some have collapsed and others are dangerously
corroded.



- 9 -
3.15      Based on recommendations from the Highway Services, a comprehensive
program of highway and bridge rehabilitation is in process and the condition
of the highway system is gradually improving. The First Highway Project
covers rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of high priority highways and pro-
vides technical assistance (including the training of maintenance personnel)
and equipment, with the result that highway maintenance is gradually
becoming satisfactory.
3.16      The DGH's 1972-73 budget contains an average allocaLion of US$380/km
for maintenance of national and provincial highways, excluding equipment
depreciation, and a similar allocation is proposed for 1973-74. This is
almost 10 times the amount allocated for 1968-69. The present allocation
is satisfactory because part of the work normally carried out under periodic
maintenance is being covered and financed separately under the rehabilitation
program. Maintenance works on both national and provincial highways are
carried out by the Provincial Public Works Departments.
H.   Training
3.17      The DGH is gradually improving its planning and engineering capa-
city, and 25 of its personnel have undertaken overseas training and study
through UNDP fellowships since the beginning of 1970. The ongoing First
Highway Project includes a general element of training in all categories of
highway work together with a specific training service for highway maintenance
personnel. The ongoing Second Highway Project includes the assignment of
Indonesian counterparts to consultants to obtain experience in highway design
and in highway construction supervision. The Third Highway Project will
continue this practice.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Description
4.01      The project comprises:
(a) construction of two highway sections about 124 km long
to two-lane paved standards and two bridges between
Amurang and Duloduo in Sulawesi, and supervision by
consultants;
(b) feasibility study of about 300 km of highway and 250 km
of feeder roads in Java, and subsequent detailed engineering
if justified;
(c) technical assistance for the preparation of a higiiway
betterment program; and
(d) training of highway maintenance personnel.
The location of the project and. its elements are shown on the Maps.



(a) Construction and Supervision
+4,,.0'2  The Amurang - Kapitu - Inobonto - Kotanmobagu - Duloduo highway,
wbich is in North Sulawesi Province, is part of the main coastal route between
Menado (the capital of the Province) and a rice-producing area presently beirng
developed in the Dumoga valley. The two highway sections to be constructed
under the project are between Kapitu and Inobonto (70 km) and between
Kotamobagu and Duloduo (54 km'). These sections are presently poorly aligned
and, due to lack of maintenance, in very bad condition. Most of the river
crossings are unbridged or served by inadequate structures and much of the
highway, w1hich is unpaved, is extremely difficult to negotiate during the
rainy season.  The two project bridges are on the Amurang-Kapi:-: section
the only link between the project construction sections and      a do.  One
bridge is justified on technical grounds as it will replace a single-lane
temporary structure presently in unsatisfactory condition. The other bridge
will span an unbridged river which traffic presently fords and where adverse
water conditions cause frequent delays. The Amurang-Kapitu link and the non.-
project highway sections which make up the coastal route between Menado and
Duloduo are asphalt paved, and when the two project bridges between Amurang
and Kapitu have been completed should be adequate for the anticipated traffic
until about 1980.
4.03      The Kapitu-Inobonto section runs mostly along a narrow coastal
plain and crosses one large and numerous small rivers.  The terrain is
mostly flat to rolling interspersed with short hilly lengths. iApart from
one short hilly length, the Kotamobagu-Duloduo section runs ti-.ughn the
Dumoga river valley.  There are adequate sources of highway construction
materials in the areas of the two highway sections.
4.04      A feasibility study of the Amurang-Duloduo highway was carried
out by the Highway Services in 1970.  Detailed engineering of the highway
sections to be constructed has been completed by consultants (Vallentine,
Laurie & Davies, Australia) to DGH Class II B and II C highway design
standards (Table 4), with a modified width of 10 m in the light of low
traffic volumes. The bridges are being designed to DGH standards. The
design standards are satisfactory. The Government intends to engage consul-
tants to supervise construction; terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-
tion have been prepared.
,J) Feasibility Study and Subsequent Detailed Engineering
4.05      Based on preliminary investigations carried out under the Highway
Services and in consultation with the Association, the DGH has selected the
300 km highway between Bandung and Cilacap in Java and its related feeder
roads (estimated at 250 km) for feasibility study. If justified, detailed
engineering of the highway sections and limited engineering of the feeder
roads will follow. During credit negotiations an assurance was obtained
from the Government that 4it will select the highway and feeder road sections
for detailed and limited engineering in consultation with the Association.



- 1 1 -
(c) Technical Assistance
4.06      As a follow-up to the rehabilitation program under the First High-
way Project, the DGH is preparing, with the assistance of the Association,
a program for the betterment of existing low-standard highways. The DGH will
require some engineering assistance and more extensive help with the economic
and agricultural aspects. The project, therefore, includes about 48 man-months
of highway engineer, transport economist and agricultural expert time, to be
provided by consultants.
(d) Training of Highway Maintenance Personnel
4.07      A review of highway needs by the DGH and the Association in 1972
indicated that emphasis should be placed on maintenance and on betterment
of the existing higway network, and a specific training operation was required
to catalyze and support these functions. To enable an early start to be
made on the training the DGH has recently engaged a consultant, under the
First Highway Project, to provide training services for highway maintenance
and betterment personnel. These services are a follow-up on the earlier and
more general training also carried out under the First Highway Project (para
3.18).
4.08      To conserve the remaining balance of funds under the First Highway
Project for the procurement of urgently needed highway equipment spares,
about 26 months of the training services will be financed under the proposed
credit.
B.  Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.09      The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$19 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$14 million. Details are shown below:



- 12 -
%
Foreign
Rp (million)           US$ (million)      Exchange
Element                   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Component
I.   Construction of:
(a) Kapitu-Inobonto
and Kotamobagu-
Duloduo Highways           1,369   2,532  3,901   3.3    6.1    9.4         65
(b) Two bridges between
Amurang and Kapitu             6      11      17   0.1    0.3    0.4        65
Supervision of con-
struction                     62     353    415   0.1    0.9    1.0         85
II.  Feasibility Study
and Detailed Engineer-
ing of the Bandung-
Cilacap Highway and
its related feeder
roads                        187   1,058  1,245   0.4    2.6    3.0         85
III. Technical Assistance
to the DGH                    19     106    125    -      0.3    0.3        85
IV.  Training of Highway
Maintenance Personnel         69     388    457   0.2    0.9    1.1         85
Sub-total I-IV        1,712   4,448  6,160   4.1   11.1   15.2
V.   Contingencies:
(a) Physical (all
items: 10%)            171      445    616   0.4    1.1    1.5
(b) Price:
(i) Construction: 17%  234       432    666   0.6    1.1    1.7
(ii) Consulting
Services:      10%   34      190    224    -      0.5    0.5
0.5
Sub-total V            439   1,067  1,506   1.0    2.7    3.7
Total Project Cost        2,151   5,515  7,666   5.1   13.F   18.9
Rounded-off                                   5     14      19        74
4.10      Construction cost estimates for the two highway sections and the
two bridges were prepared by Vallentine, Laurie & Davies, based on detailed
quantities and on unit prices obtained recently for similar works in
Indonesia (adjusted to reflect anticipated price increases up to the time of
bidding). Cost estimates for supervision of construction, feasibility study



- 13 -
and detailed engineering and technical assistance are derived from Consultants'
agreements for similar services under the Highway Services, the Second Highway
Project (Credit 260-IND) and Technical Assistance Credit 216-IND. Cost
estimates for training services are based on the estimated portion (about 26
months) of the on-going training service to be financed under the proposed
credit. The project cost estimates were confirmed with the Government during
credit negotiations.
4.11      Contingencies of 27% fot construction and 20% for consulting
services are adequate. The construction contingency covers 10% quantity
and 17% price increases (10% annually on local prices and 6% annually on
foreign prices from the expected time of bid receipt to construction com-
pletion). The consulting services contingency allows 10% for increases in
man-months and 10% for price increases.
4.12      The foreign exchange component of the highway construction item was
assessed by the design consultants, on the assumption that execution would be
wholly by foreign contractors, at about 65%, which is reasonable. The likely
small participation of local contractors would not significantly affect the
foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component of the construction
supervision, feasibility study and detailed engineering, technical assistance,
and training services was estimated at 85%. The shortage of Local personnel
qualified and experienced in the skills required for these types of services
necessitates extensive use of foreign staff by consultants and gives rise to
the relatively high figure of 85%.
C.   Project Financing and Execution
4.13      The proposed credit of US$14 million will finance the foreign
exchange costs of the project. The Government intends to finance the local
costs as part of the DGH annual development budgets. During credit negotia-
tions assurances were obtained from the Government that adequate funds will
be included in the DGH annual development budgets to cover the local costs
of the proposed project and that satisfactory arrangements will be made
for timely disbursement of the local funds. Based on the Government's
performance on the First and Second Highway Projects, no undue difficulties
are expected with the budget provisions.
4.14      The DGH, assisted by qualified consultants, will be responsible
for project execution. There are no restrictions on the operation of foreign
consultants. The Government will employ qualified and experienced consultants
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the construction
supervision, feasibility study and detailed engineering, technical assistance
and training services included in the project.
4.15      Highway and bridge construction will be divided into two contract
bidding sections on the basis of the separate site locatio.s (about US$6.4
and 3.4 million). Contracts will be based on unit rates. Bidding for both
sections will be carried out concurrently and will commence as soon as
bidding documents are finalized. Contract awards are expected to be in
September 1973. Suitably prequalified contractors will be permitted to



- 14 -
undertake more than one contract section. A few local contractors have been
prequalified on their own or in joint venture with foreign firms and others
are expected to participate as sub-contractors (para 3.13).
4.16      No regulations restrict the operation of foreign contractors.  The
Government has agreed to carry out bidder prequalification in a manner
acceptable to the Association and bidding for construction according to the
Association's guidelines for international competitive bidding. During
credit negotiations assurances on these points were obtained from the Govern-
ment.
4.17      The highway construction sections are located in farming areas
where population densities are low and unemployment minimal and the work
force required for a normal equipment - usage operation (about 500 men) will
absorb much of the suitable available labor in the areas. Labor-intensive
construction methods would require the transfer of labor from Java (over
2,000 km away). The Government does not consider such a transfer acceptable
for the short term, scattered and seasonal work opportunities offered by
highway construction. In particular, the heavy dry season labor demands
of the highway would conflict with farming operations. Also, as the type
of construction and quality of work required lend themselves better to
normal equipment-usage construction methods, the Government decided not to
use labor-intensive methods of construction.
4.18      The Government has adequate powers to acquire the right-of-way for
highway construction. Based on its performance under the Second Highway
Project, no right-of-way acquisition problems are envisaged.
4.19      The project is not expected to cause ecological problems or ad-
versely affect the environment. The highway sections to be constructed
basically follow the existing routes and will be paved, which will eliminate
dust.
4.20      Construction of the Kapitu-Inobontu and Kotamobagu-Duloduo highway
sections and the 2 bridges between Amurang and Kapitu is expected to start
in late 1973 and should be completed by the end of 1976. The feasibility
study of the Bandung-Cilacap highway will start early in 1974 and should
be completed by late 1974. Detailed engineering (if justified) will follow
the feasibility study and should be completed by late 1975. The training
was started in early 1973 under the First Highway Project and should be
completed by the end of 1975. A project implementation schedule and progress
reporting requirements were discussed and agreed with the Government during
credit negotiations.
D.   Disbursements
4.21      Credit funds will be disbursed on the basis of 65% of the cost of
highway and bridge construction and 85% of the cost of consultants' services
(the estimated foreign exchange components). Any surplus funds under the
Credit Account not needed to finance the foreign exchange cost of the project



- 15 -
will be cancelled. Based on the timing in para 4.20, the estimated schedule
of disbursements of foreign currency for the project will be as shown in
Annex B.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      This economic evaluation relates only to the highway construction
works included in the proposed project, which are confined to the island of
Sulawesi. The rationale for including bridge construction (also in Sulawesi),
feasibility and engineering studies, technical assistance and training in
the project, is dealt with in paras 4.02, 4.05 and 4.08 above.
(a) Sulawesi
5.02      Sulawesi, one of the four great islands of Indonesia, has an area
of about 73,000 square miles (i.e. roughly six times that of the Netherlands)
and a population of some nine million. Most of the island is mountainous,
interspersed with highly fertile rift valleys and plateaus. These areas,
however, are badly connected with each other and with the coastal areas, and
hence, with the potential markets for the output from Sulawesi. Rainfall
occurs in all months, averaging 110 inches p.a. around Menado. This heavy
rainfall, combined with fertile soils, provides excellent opportunities for
agriculture. The unusual shape of the island and its topographic and
climatic features, however, combine to cause difficult transport problems,
high construction costs and, because of the low levels of traffic, difficulties
in obtaining high economic returns from the construction of even modest -
standard roads.
(b) North Sulawesi Province
5.03      This is one of the more economically active areas of the island and
contains almost 2 million people. No land transport routes are available
between the Province of North Sulawesi and other parts of the island. The
mainstay of the local economy is copra produced by small farms and government
plantations on fertile volcanic soils. Dry field crops and rice are grown,
but the area generally is one of a food deficit caused, in part, by difficulty
of access to the potentially productive inland valleys and plateaus. As a
result, rice is imported at a high opportunity cost in foreign exchange. The
people of North Sulawesi are well known for their industrious attitudes and
their willingness to adapt to economic incentives, such as might be created
by road improvements.
(c) The Project Highway
5.04      The two highway sections to be constructed under the project form
part of a main route connecting Menado, the largest town in North Sulawesi
Province, and Bitung, the main ocean-going export port in the area to their
hinterland in the center of the Province. The highway linking the two



- 16 -
project construction sections (Inobonto-Kotamobagu) is already paved and
capable of carrying anticipated traffic until about 1980 before improvement
will be needed.
Kapitu-Inobonto Section
5.05      This highway section runs close to the coast and serves an area
mainly engaged in copra production. The copra is exported via Bitung despite
the present deplorable highway conditions. Rehabilitation of plantations
in the area is now underway and while the fall in transport costs associated
with the highway improvement should mean better farm prices (higher income)
for copra producers, there is insufficient information to estimate what
the impact might be. Accordingly, the economic benefits allocated to
construction of this highway section have been limited to measurable savings
in vehicle operating costs and highway maintenance. Traffic, which is
expected to be about 300 vehicles per day in the opening year of the new
highway, consists both of local movements and traffic destined for Menado
and Bitung from Kotamobagu and Duloduo (see Map 1). The possibility of
improving the alternative route shown on Map 1 from Kapitu to Kotamobagu
was considered, but the costs of construction in the difficult mountain
terrain through which the route passes exceeded the benefits in vehicle
operating costs. The benefits from the section proposed for construction
yield a return of 13% (see Table 8).
Kotamobagu-Duloduo Section
5.06      This section runs through the Dumoga valley where there is fertile
land, covered by light forest and swampy grass, but sparse population. The
Government, with its own resources, is attempting to develop the valley into
an important rice production area. Irrigation works are now under construction
that will provide sufficient water to produce 1.8 harvests of rice annually
on the average from some 5,000 ha of land. The weir is about 90 percent
completed and construction of the main canals has begun. Most of this work
is being implemented using labor-intensive techniques, but specially due to
labor shortages in the area, progress has been very slow. The UK is providing
some assistance mainly in the form of equipment, to secure early completion
of the project. The Government expects about 2,500 families to settle the
area. These immigrants will come from the more densely populated areas of
Indonesia and particularly from over-populated Java. Settlement has begun
and is expected to be completed by 1976 with full rice production of about
40,000 tons per year being achieved some 5-6 years thereafter. During
negotiations the timing of the implementation of the Dumoga irrigation project,
as well as related aspects of the settlement program required to ensure the
early arrival of expected development benefits were discussed and agreed with
the Government.
5.07      Without the project highway section, access to the area will
be only for eight months per year, at high transport costs and growing road
maintenance efforts. Construction of the highway will provide access all year
round. About one-third of the marketable rice output could be attributed to
this improvement in accessibility to markets. Based on the value added of
this increment in rice production, the transport cost savings for normal



- 17 -
traffic growth, and savings in the cost of maintaining the poor existing
highway as traffic increases, the project section is expected to yield an
economic return of 13% also (see Table 8).
5.08      The sensitivity of the economic returns on the two highway sections
was tested by varying construction cost by +15% and benefits by +25%. Under
the pessimistic assumptions the economic returns would fall to about 10%,
whereas if benefits increased the return would be about 16%. The benefit
estimates underlying these economic return calculations do not include
important, though unquantifiable, improvements in local administration and
social integration which good year-round access to the project area will
induce.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  the need for gradual elimination of commercial transport
in military vehicles, and study of measures required to
encourage renewal of the transport fleet (para 2.14);
(b)  the review and amendment of vehicle weight regulations as
necessary and the effective enforcement of the regulations
(para 3.06);
(c)  a program for the adoption of highway cost accounting
procedures by the DGH (para 3.10); and
(d)  the timing of implementation of the Dumoga irrigation project
and its related resettlement program (para 5.06).
6.02      In view of the agreements reached, the project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$14 million to the Government of Indonesia on the usual terms.
April 27, 1973






ANNEX A
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGRWAY PROJECT
Previous Transportation Projects
A.  Highways - Credits:  154-IND, June 1969, US$28 million (First) and
260-IND, June 1971, US$34 million (Second).
1.        The main objectives of these projects were:
(a) rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of national and
provincial highways;
(b) rehabilitation of workshop facilities;
fc) improvement of highway maintenance;
(d) training of highway personnel;
(e) construction of 200 km of national highway; and
(f) feasibility study and detailed engineering of
highways to be constructed.
2.        The First Highway Project had initial problems and delays related
to procurement and the disbursement of local funds. These problems have
been overcome and the project is expected to be completed by the closing
date (December 31, 1973).  The credit, which finances equipment and consulting
services, is expected to be fully utilized. The Second Highway Project is
generally on schedule and is expected to be completed by the closing date of
September 30, 1975, within the credit amount.
B.   Shipping - Credit:  318-IND, June 1972, US$8.5 million.
3.        The project comprises:
(a) repair and re-equipment of part of the inter-island
shipping fleet;
(b) rationalization of the inter-island shipping opera-
tions; and
(c) consulting services and technical assistance for
shipyards.
It should be completed by the scheduled closing date of March 31, 1976.



ANNEX B
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                        at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1973/74
December 31, 1973                                    1,000
March 31, 1974                                       1,500
June 30, 1974                                        2,300
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                   3,000
December 31, 1974                                    4,000
March 31, 1975                                       5,200
June 30, 1975                                        6,600
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                   8,000
December 31, 1975                                    9,200
March 31, 1976                                       9,900
June 30, 1976                                       11,200
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                  12,100
December 31, 1976                                   12,800
March 31, 1977                                      13,300
June 30, 1977                                       14,000



Table 1
INDC1{ESLIk
kpDraisal of a Third Highway ProJect
The Pablic Highway SystemY
Area                                                       km
By Region % of National                             National  Provincial  District
Region                    (7)         Area              Province             Highways   Highways    Roads   Total
Java                      132,000       7               Djakarta                  -          450        -
West Java                 620      1,850      4,970
Central Java              410      1,800      6,680
Jogjakarta                 30        110        740
East Java                 520      2.690     _6930
1,580      6,900     19,320   27,800
Sumatra                   474,000     25               Atjeh                      490      1,040      3,540
North Sumatra             790      2,390      3,540
West Sumatra              570      1,080      1,890
Riau                       90        660        840
DJambi                    430        570        610
South Sumatra)            660      3,470      2,760
Bengkulu     )
Lampung                   240        510      2,250
3,270      9,720     15,430  28,420
Kalimantan                539,000      28               West Kalimantan           450        990        500
(Indonesian Borneo)                                    Central Kalimantan          80         80         50
South Kali-tAnan          280        490      1,800
East Kalimantan           200        220         70
1,010      1,780      2,420    5,210
Sulawesi (Celebes)        189,000      10               North Sulawesi            720        380         80
Central Sulawesi          600        710      3,420
South Sulawesi            580      1,230      2,180
South-East Sulawesi       190        240      1.620
2,090     2,560       7,300   11,950
The Principal
Smaller Islands          94,000      5               Bali                       390        310      1,050
West-Nusa Tenggara        490         70      1,710
East-Nusa Tenggara      1,230        340      1,350
Maluku                     80        220        540
2,190        940      4,650    7,780
West Irian
(Indonesian New Guinea)   422,000     22               West Irian                -           880        -        880
Total              1.850.000                                               10,140    222,780    149.120   82.010
1/ Excluding municipal roads (totaling about 2,000 km).
i/  The total land area of Indonesia, including numerous smaller islands not in the above
grouping, is approximately 1,904,000 km2.
Sources: Area and populatimn statisticsu Central Bureau of Statistics
Highway Statistics: Directorate General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
April 1973



Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
INDCNWESIA
The Public Highway System -- Type of Surface
National      Provincial        District
Type of Surface              Hiehways       H W                Roads           Total
Asphaltic Concrete         150       1.5       -       -       _       _      150      0.2
Paved (Bituminous
Surface Treatment)     4,500      450.   8,000   36.4    3,000    6.0  15,500    18.9
Unpaved
Gravel                 5,350      53.5   12,000   54.5   16,500   33.0  33,850    41.3
Earth                 -_            -     2,000    9.1  30,500   61.0  32,500    39.6
Total               10,100.0  22000  100.0    50000  100.0  821000   100.0
_ ~  ~~                                                    _
Sources: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
April 1973



Table 3
INDCNESIA
ApPraisal of a Third Highway Project
The PLblic Highway System -- Design Load-Carrying Capacity
Design  1/     National         Provincial        District
Axle-Loadi-     Hihways           Hi h               Roads          Total System
Class      (a tons)      mabut                                                 km2/      about
I.          7.00           70      1         50   1/4         -      _          120     1/7
II.          5.00       1,230      12      1,250    6          -      _        2,1480     3
III.          3.50       3,200      32      9,000    41         -      _       12,200     15
III-A.        2.75        1,900     19      4,000    18         -      -        5,900      7
IV.          2.00        2,000     20      7,000    32         -      -        9,000      11
V.          1.50        1,600     16        700      3     50,000   100      52,300      64
Total                   10,000    100     22,000   100      50,000   100      82,000     100
1/ The calculations for determining pavement strength are conservative, and the above
figures may therefore understate the true bearing capacity; this seems to be con-
firmed by the weight and volume of traffic using the system. The load-carrying
capacity of the bridges is generally compatible with that of the road of which
they are part, but the weights of vehicles using the bridges indicate that bridge
classificatimn too may be understating the strength.
g   The classification of district roads as "V" reflects primarily the strength
of only the bridges since 90% of the district roads are unpaved (Table 2)
and pavement strength is not meaningful unless ambient conditions are specified.
Sources: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
April 1973



INDONESIA
Appraisal of a Third Highway Project
Geometric Design Standards -/
Classification                         Primary Highways                                                  Secondary Highways                                                       Feeder Roads
I                              II A                               II B                              II C                                 III
Moun-                             Moun-                              Moun-                             Moun-                               Moun-
Terrain                           Flat   Rolling   tainous           Flat   Rolling   tainous          Flat   Rolling    tainous          Flat   Rolling    tainous          Flat   Rolling    tainous
Average Daily Traffic
(ADT) in Passenger Car units               >20,000                             6,000-20,000                       1,500-8,000                          <2,000
Design Speed (km/h)                      120    100          80            100       80        60              80       60       40               60      40         30              60      40          30
Minimum Right of Way (m)                  60      60          60            40        40       40              30       30        30              30      30          30             20      20          20
Pavement Width (m)                        Minitmum 4x3.75                  2x3.50 or 4x3.50                            2x3.50                             2x3.00                           3.50-6.00
Minimum Median Width (m)                          10                                1.5 2---                                                               _--
Shoulder Width (m)                       3.50  3.00        3.00            3.00   2.50         2.50            3.00    2,50   2.50             2.50      1.50      1.00                    1.50-2.50-3'
Pavement Cross Slope                              2%                                2%                                   2G                                 3%                                4%
Shoulder Cross Slope                              4%                                4%                                   6%                                 6%                                6%
SurfacingAshtij                                          re                Asphaltic Concrete                  High Type Penetration           Maximum to Single                     Maximum to Surface
AsPhot  ixAp t C                                   rH                       Te         t              Type Penetratiou\                          reatment
Maximum Superelevation                          10%                                 10%                                   10'                             10%                               10%
MiniTu3l Horizontal Radius               560   350       210               350       210      115              210       115      50            115       50          30             115     50          30
Maximum Grade                             3%    5%        6%                4%        6%       7%               5%        7%      8%             6%       8%          10%             6%    8%          12%
1/ Pavement design based on an 8-ton single axle-load;
structural designs based on DGH standard.
2/ Only for 4-lane highways.
3/ According to condition.
Sources: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
April 1973



Table 5
INDONESIA
Ap_raisal of a Third Highway Project
Vehicles Registered, 1961-1971 1/
(Excluding Military & Diplomatic)
Total
Total                     Motorized
Year       Cars         Trucks      Buses       4-wheel   Motorcycles       Vehicles
1961      103,254       75,488     17,855      196,627         n.a.            n.a.
1962      128,336       69,738     18,646      216,720     172,417           389,137
1963      136,618       77,761     17,336      231,715     196,586           428,301
1964      157,1478      83,271     19,541      260,290     220,953           481,243
1965      166,845       84,647     18,414      269,906     235,413           505,319
1966      179,494       92,891     19,584      291,969     281,779           5737148
1967      184,954       945,892    18,840      298,686     287,522           586,208
1968      201,743       93,417     19,612      314,772     308,404           623,176
1969      212,124       95,660     20,1497     328,281     336,597           6644,878
1970      238,924      102,975     23,5941     365,440     440,005           205,395
1971      256,988      112,877     22,562      392,427     510,764            903,191
1/  Includes large nunber of inoperative vehicles which have not been taken
off the registration list.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics



Table 6
=ND0NESIA
Appraisal of a Third Highway Project
b1otor Vehicle Registrations -
Geographic Disbribution, 1971 2/
Total
2/   Ybtorized
Area               Cars          Buases     Trucks    Motorcycles       Vehiclea
Java and Madura         195,425      11,663      65,311       358,185        630,584
Djakarta                 95,077       5,834      21,935       129,528        252,374
West                     36,698       2,162      11,749        60,683         111,292
Central 3                23,068       1,755      12,204        80,338        117,365
East                     40,582       1,912      19,423       87,636         149,553
Sumatra                  43,494       8,406      30,904       96,597         179,431
North 4/                 23,726       3,555      11,369       59,973          98,623
Central                   6,453       1,438       6,920       17,942          32,753
South 6/                 13,315       3,413      12,615       18,682          48,025
Kalimantan                5,579         319       3,687       16,235          25,820
7/
Other areas -            12,490       2,174      12,975        39,747         67,386
Total             256,988      22,562    112,877       510,764         903.19
1/ Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
2/  Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
3/ Includes Jogjakarta.
4/  Includes Atjeh.
5i  Includes West Sumatra and Riau.
6/  Includes South Sumatra and Djambi.
7/  Includes Sulawesi, Bali, Lesser Sunda Islands (Nusa Tenggara), the Moluccas,
and West Irian.
Source:  Central Statistical Bureau, Semua Kendaraan Bermotot, 1971
April 1973



APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
INDONESIA
( ip. 000)
Budget Summary of Directorate-General of highwass
Routine Budget                                   Development Budget 1/                                       Total
1969-70      1970-71     1971-72     1972-73       1969-70      1970-71      1971-72      1972-73       1969-70     1970-71      1971-72      1972-73
Administration               166,248      229,000     245,837     316,086           -            -           -            -            166,248     229,000     245,837       316,086
(Head Office)
Engineering                    -            -           -           -             607,000   1,177,882     675,000       790,000        607,000   1,177,882     675,000       790,000
Upgrading/new con-
struction                      -            -           -           -          6,592,614   6,189,100   7,667,500    12,383,500      6,592,614   6,189,100   7,667,500   12,383,500
Rehabilitation                 -            -           -           -           2,636,776   2,672,000   2,728,500     3,926,500      2,636,776   2,672,000   2,728,500    3,926,500
Maintenance _/               206,152      452,000     450,000     450,000           -       1,534,060   4,370,000     3,400,000-.      206,152   1,986,060   4,820,000    3,850,0003/
Handling cost equip-
ment and materials
ex. project aid,
workshop, and other
facilities                     -            -           -           -            541,000   2,049,958   1,415,000        500,000        541,000   2,049,958   1,415,000       500,000
Technical Support
Service, IDA                 -            -           -           -              -          152,000     190,000        160,000         -         152,000      190,000      160,000
Asphalt purchase                                        -            -                           -           -          fl~~ 2,000,                  -                     2,000.000
TOTAL                       372,400      681,000     695,837     766,086      10,377,390  13,775,000  17,Q4-6,000    23,1SO,000    10,749,790  14,456,000  17,741,837   23,926,086_/
1/ Includes administration cost of project.
2/ Bulk of maintenance funds are tied to First Highway Project and hence Government classified these as "Development" rather than "Routine".
3/ An unspent balance of Rp 1.0 billion from 1971-72 was also available,
Source: Directorate-General of &LghiwDys
April 1973






INDONESIA,
rHIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Esti-etd Costs sod Benefits
(Million Rp)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989                  1990    1991      1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
t-APlTU - f9IBONr-O
Benefits:
Transport ot savIng                                          -        -        -       -        228      244      285      380     459      502      555      611      665     698      733      772      812      854      900      948    1001    1056    1116    1179
HiEhway nntene savings                                                                             9      10       12       13       15      16                19       21       22      24       25       27       28       30       31       3        34       35 
Costs:
Engineering                                          90
Right-of-v,ay                                        -       103
Constructior                                         -       272      941     941      538
Enpervisiso                                          -        17       57       57      33
llintonanc.                                                                                      14       14       14       14       14      83       14       14       14       14      14       83       14       14       14       14       14       83       14       14
Net B-nefit                                         _90    -392    -998    -999        571      225      240      283      379     460      435      559      616     672      706      743      714      825      868      916      965    1020    1007    1137    1201
BrOAI3DBAEU-DULODUO
Benefits:
Value-odded of genorsted rite prodoction-                    -        -        -       -         58       77       93      109     124      136      144      151      151      151      151     151      151      151      151      151      151      151      151,    151
Transport cost -svingsj/                            -        -        -        -       -         85      101      121      169     205      227      246      269-    282      292       302     312      323      334      346      359      373      387      402      417
Higslo,y   intena     svings                                                                      6        6        7                 9      10       11       12       13       1        1       16       17       18       19       20       21       22        3       24
Costs:
Engireering                                          71
Right-of-vy                                          -        50
Constroction                                         -       156      537      537     306
sopervision                                          -         9       33       33      20
lialnteonsco                                         -       -        -        _        -        11       11      1E        Ii       if       1        1 11   1[1      10        1       11       70       Li       ii      Li        11       11       70       11       11
Net Benofito                                        -71    -245    -570    -570        326      138      173      210      274      327     303      390      421      435      446      457     409      490      492       505     519      534      490      565      581



Table 8
Page 2
1/ Transport Cost Savings (Kapitu-Inobonto)
Traffic estimates:
1977  - ADT   275
1982  - ADT   580
1996  - ADT 1,400
Vehicle operating cost per vehicle km:
Cars             - 1972 Rp. 3697;  1977 lip. 12.4
Trucks and Buses - 1972 lRp. 76.6;  1977 Rp. 25.8
2/ Value Added of Generated Rice Production (Kotamobagu-Duloduo)
To estimate the agricultural benefits) the following assumptions were
made which are in line with experience from projects elsewhere in
Indonesia:
Yield per ha: 1st year - 1.5 tons per crop
6th year - 4.0 tons per crop
Number of crops per year:   1st year  - 1 crop
8th year  - 1.8 crops
Farm gate price dry stalk paddy: Rp. 15 per kg.
Added Value: Farm gate price minus purchased inputs and family rice
consumption.   If the road would not be built, the
incremental marketable rice production would not take
place and no alternative employment opportunities would
be available for farmers.
First year total irrigation area under production: 1976.
3/ Transport Cost Savings (Kotamobagu-Doloduo)
Traffic estimates:
1977 - ADT 120
1982 - ADT 335
1996 - ADT 600
The above data are based on all anticipated traffic, including traffic
to be generated by a further rice development project, which would bring
some 8,000 ha under single cropping by 1280.
Vehicle operating cost per vehicle kn
Cars             - Rp. 34.1;  1977 Rp. 12.4
Trucks and Buses - Rp. 71.5;  1977 lp. 25.8



APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECr
INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL WORKS ORGANIZATIONS
IN RELATION TO HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT                                                                           PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND POWER
-     SECRETARIAT
.,- _          .       .   .         . .                            -     . ~n        i _ _ _ _ _
l  l                  l                      l                    |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNOR
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF    DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF    DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF     DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF  DIRECTOR - GENERAL OF                     O
IRRIGATION        HOUSING & BUILDING      HEAVY EQUIPMENT             HIGHWAYS          POWER AND ELECTRICITY
I
U
DIRECTOR OF     DIRECTOR OF   DIRECTOR OF      DIRECTOR OF      DIRECTOR OF  DIRECTOR OF       l
CONSTRUCTION   ASPHALT STATE SOILS AND         h\AINTENANCE     EQUIPMENT    PLANNING  
ENTERPRISE    INVESTIGATIONS  AND               SUPPLY        ANDi
REHABILITATION                 SURVEYl
!________________ E *- PROVINCIAL ENGINEER
(LIAISON ON MATTERS RELATiNG TO           (Responsible for irrigation, roads
NATIONAL ROADS IN THE PROVINCE)          and buildings within province)
World Bank - 5647 (2R)
February 1971






;HAtLAtO                                                                                124I0I I24 30'
lSo,t  Ch-l  5pa                   THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                      1
C4 PROJECT LOCATiONS
4
a, a ,r, \ '< t ~~~A y S                                kw \^A  
KALIMANTAN                         &                                                                                                                     Li a
L-R-.                        T23 d              WES  ElAN)  g
r        lr  5ea   M4or Sea/
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C /A~                                                           Too oTodvo
0 Ce a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                              M~~~~~~~~NA0O  Mn,b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      130'~~~~~~~~13,
W,sIdA.    Ae W, -4?4r 'Ff --
)XX < Kuandsn; 2_ S~~~~~~~~~ ~~-sg X S $ ~~INDONESIA
\>    F  ) DUMOGA  -<    k'                                    gS                HIGHWAY PROJECT
ssimu  9 /                             ,J                ~~~~~~~~IRRIGATION       O     t    >                                                          ilT        UAVEl
;mboto                            AREA             QIFD rP"sXob rr                           u                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nationol Highwaysa
____Provincial Highways
,,      <       ubes                                                                   Project Costruction
Rivers                           3
Internationrol Boundaries
0 .0          2f2f    30    40      S0
g <  \   -                f f                                                   I            fi~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fLOMETfER,S  _
123'oo'                                 123'3W                                  124'00'                                  14






IC6                                  107                                   108                  TRHAILAND
106'         107                                   108,                       5.,~~~~~~~~~~~~,  Sr,h Chi.. Seao
INDONESIA                                                                                                              tRRUE   THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                                                                        A Y S                                  PRJECT LOCATIONS
WEST JAVA                                                  1                                    SSNGAPORE    f-.f,--
0     220    40    60  80    100                                                                                '_ r;                                                   N    K>,_
I   I  I                   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~                                 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                    Ib~~~~~~~~~~~-<-WEST IRlAN
KILOMETERS                                                                                      *    2                Sea
tJAxR A Jva'Y   o Muso.  ,D.
7.~ ~~~~~~M.
xj SERANG tJ~~~~~AKARTA                        R   d Rnodgklok                                              7                                                    kpPhri,  dbn;1 11 1rJ/
Nationa  Hgwy=   ;<SKorg,smq
ftX    / <   \<\t. /   X    <t                   =                      \\ V                           y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a v a  5 e a7
Provincial HiPhwys                                                      <                  
- ---  P;roject Foosibility Study and Detailed Engineering                                           )_ j=                                                      _           =Slr o
--H  Railveys Cphi~~~~\z;G
-   -   Provincial Boundaries                                                                                                            ~ 
--    Internatiional Boundaries                             IOG A/D/ARTA gANn t 
BOGOR ~ ~ ~       ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~        JOJT VVE
_          _                    i06-                                  lEi7                                 10jS                                   09e                                   110'            \    Q OC
G06   .1t-gOt                                                                                                       PUROKET'                                              SD W



