CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 388 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 1, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 388 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 1, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the terms "First Project" and "Second Project"
mean the projects as described in Schedule 2 to th2 development credit agreement
(Highway Project) of June 20, 1969 and to the development credit agreement
(Second Highway Project) of June 24, 1971, both between the Borrower and the
Association, as either such schedule shall be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,


﻿4
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate highway engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿L
5
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the construction
supervision and detailed engineering, to carry out the feasibility studies and training
program, and to provide the technical assistance, included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The general design standards for the highways and bridges included
in Part A of the Project shall be those set forth or referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction of the highways and bridges
included in Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02 (a) The Borrower undertakes that the highways (including
bridges and other road structures) constructed under the Project or under the
Second Project or rehabilitated under the First Project shall be adequately
maintained and that all necessary repairs thereof shall be made, all in accordance
with appropriate highway engineering and financial practices, and that the funds,
equipment, workshop facilities and other resources required for the purpose shall
be provided promptly as needed.
(b)   The Borrower shall continue to take all steps required to improve the
maintenance of its national and provincial highways (including bridges and other
road structures) other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph in order
to reach as soon as possible in respect of all such highways an adequate level
of maintenance in accordance with appropriate highway engineering and financial
practices.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that all maintenance and repair works on
its national and provincial highways (including bridges and other road structures)
shall be adequately prepared, that the expenditure of the national funds by its
Provinces to finance such works shall be duly monitored and that upon their
completion all such works shall be submitted to a detailed inspection, all in
accordance with appropriate highway engineering, financial and accounting
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to collect and record, in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such information
concerning highway traffic, highway construction and highway maintenance costs
and other data as shall be reasonably required for the formulation of a


﻿7
comprehensive transport policy and for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of its highway system. To that end, the Borrower
shall inter alia carry out an expanded program of traffic counting including selective
counts by vehicle type, and origin and destination surveys as required.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall periodically review its regulations limiting
the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles as to their consistency with the structural
and geometric design standards of its highway network (including its provincial
highways) and shall continue to ensure that such regulations are effectively
enforced.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations inder the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿8
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them     of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity foi
accredited representatives of the Associat;on to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower of laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTtCLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date July 31, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil works                     6,400,000           65% of total ex-
contracts                                           penditures (rep-
resenting the es-
timated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
II.   Consultants'                    4,700,000           85% of total ex-
services                                            penditures (rep-
resenting the es-
timated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
III.  Unallocated                     2,900,000
TOTAL               14,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all


﻿12
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's on-going highway program and
consists of the following parts:
Part A.    Menado-Duloduo Highway
Construction in accordance with two-lane paved standards of the
Kapitu-Inobonto section (about 70 km), the Kotamobagu-Duloduo
section (about 55 km) and two bridges between Amurang and Kapitu
on the Menado-Duloduo highway in North Sulawesi.
Part B.    Bandung-Cilacap Highway
A feasibility study of the Bandung-Cilacap highway on Java and its
related feeder roads, and detailed engineering of such sections of that
highway, and limited engineering of such related feeder road sections,
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree to be justified.
Part C.    Technical Assistance
Technical assistance with the economic, agricultural and engineering
aspects of the Borrower's on-going program of betterment of
low-standard highways.
Part D.    Training
A training program for personnel of the Borrower's Directorate General
of Highways, covering all aspects of highway maintenance and
betterment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The civil works shall be grouped into bid packages of sufficient value to
attract widespread international competition. Contractors shall be permitted to
undertake more than one of said groups only after suitable prequalification.
2.    Bidders are to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited.
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Contracts shall be based on unit rates. Before bids are invited, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
5.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
6.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 4
Highway Design Standards
The Menado-Duloduo highway sections shall be constructed in accordance
with the design standards set out below:
1.   Kapitu-Inobonto Section
Terrain
Flat       Rolling    Mountainous
Design Speed (km/h)                      80           60            40
Pavement Width (meters)                    6           6             6
Shoulder Width (meters)                    2            1.50          1.00
Maximum Grade (%)                          5           7             8
Surfacing Type                         Bituminous Surface Treatment
2.   Kotanobagu-Duloduo Section
Terrain
Flat       Rolling    Alountainous
Design Speed (km/h)                      60           40            30
Pavement Width (meters)                    6           6             6
Shoulder Width (meters)                    2            1.50          1.00
Maximum Grade (%)                          6           8            10
Surfacing Type                         Bituminous Surface Treatment
3.    It shall be permitted to reduce the specified shoulder width to meet difficult
conditions. Pavement design shall be based on an 8 metric ton single axle-load
and structural designs shall be according to Regulation No. 12/1970 of the
Borrower's Directorate General of Highways.


