Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24288
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27070)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.6 MILLON
(USS 6.8 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 18, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
CFAF 100 = USS 0.143
USS I = 700 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPIP        Niger Private Irrigation Promotion Association
DRE          Directorate of Water Resources
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GIE          Economic Interest Group
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
INRAN        Nigerien Institute for Agricultural Research
MCPEC        Savings and Credit Union
MELCD        Ministry of Environment and Desertification Control
MRE          Ministry of Water Resources
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          Net Present Value
PME          Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
PPIP         Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
USD          US Dollar
MTR          Mid-term review
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Manager:   Salifou Mahaman



NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                   16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27






Project ID: P00 1994                                      Project Name * Pilot Private Irrigation
Team Leader. Mahaman Salifou                              TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Tvpe Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Pilot Private Irrigation                       L/C/TF Number. IDA-27070
Country/Department. NIGER                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsecror: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/02/1990                             Effective:  12/19/1995        07/19/1996
Appraisal:  06/17/1991                                MTR: 06/30/1998           05/17/1999
Approval:  04/18/1995                              Closing  06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrowver/lmplementing Agency GOVERNMENT/NON GOVERNMENT AGENCY (ANPIP) BOARD (ONAHA)
Other Partners*
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President"      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Geoffrey H. Bergen                         Whitney Foster
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                         Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:  Mahaman Salifou                            Sidi Jammeh
ICR Primary Author    Stanislaw Manikwoski
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilnty: L
Institutional Development Irmpact M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The project has not been reviewed by QAG.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to assist Niger in testing and evaluating the following: (a) private sector
development through local capacity-building in the irrigation sector; (b) improved low-cost technologies for
small-scale private irrigation; (c) improved grassroots savings and credit schemes; and (d) erosion control
works and monitoring replinishable shallow aquifers. The development impact would result from
widespread adoption of simple, low-cost mechanized and manual irrigation techniques, building a critical
mass of local artisans trained in manufacture and repairs of irrigation technologies and the emergence of
private sector in irrigation development. The project focus was primarily on the poorest small irrigation
farmers, as well as selected private commercial irrigators.
This objective reflected essential priorities for rural development in Niger (les Principes Directeurs du
Developpement Rural au Niger) at that time, as identified both by the government and in the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The objective was consistent with the government's strategy for rebuilding the
rural economy through poverty alleviation, restoring food security, and promoting private sector
development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not revised during implementation.
3 3 Original Components
a) PRIVATE PROJECT MANAGEMENT AGENCY; $1.3 M
This component aimed to build institutional and technical capacities for the promotion of the Government's
private sector strategy for development of small-scale irrigation, the delivery of services through contract
management, and the introduction of demand-driven assistance to small farmers using procedures which
ensure transparency and cost-effectiveness. Based on the disappointing experience with public irnigation
agencies, it was deemed necessary to establish an association of private irrigators with private legal
status.Roles, functions, procedures and staffing of this private entity were clearly laid-out in a project
implementation manual. This design prevented Government subjection of ANPIP to bureaucratic controls
and pressures of political patronage which could have undermined the agency's autonomy and effectiveness.
b) SMALL-SCALE MECHANIZED IRRIGATION TECHNOLOGIES; $1.8 M
This component included tests and evaluations of simple, low-cost mechanized technologies appropriate to
farmers cultivating plots of more than 0.5 ha. In addition to promoting the adoption of technologies which
already exist on the shelves or could be easily imported from Nigeria, the component would undertake
research in less familiar techniques such as tubewell and washbore drilling, water distribution technologies;
and rotary drilling system, motorized bailers, small submersible pumps for deeper water table applications
and distribution system such as drip or sprinkler techniques.Implementation of this component will be
contracted out by ANPIP. Dissemination of the tested technologies was to be carried out via IDA-financed
Agricultural Services Project (Cr.2335-NIR).
c) IMPROVED MANUAL IRRIGATION TECHNOLOGIES; $0.8 M
The objective of this component was to test and assess manual technology packages suitable for farms
cultivating plots of less than 0.5 ha. The manual technologies would include: (a) improvements to hand dug
wells to increase recharge rate and construction cost, manual methods for inserting tubewells, such as hand
augers, manual bailers and sludger; (b) manual water lifting technologies; (c)simple water distribution
technologies; (d) training of local artisans to produce manual irrigation equipment. The package of services
under this component also included technical and training support to beneficiaries on complimentary
activities, including development of cost-efficient techniques for crop conservation and storage,
-2 -



agro-processing, building marketing expertise and linkages; and creating capacity for maintenance and
repairs services in irrigation. Implementation of this component was to be contracted out by ANPIP.
Dissemination of the tested technologies will be done through IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project
(Cr.2335-NIR).
d) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION; $0.3 M
The objective of this component was to monitor shallow aquifer levels, and soil and water quality in the
project zones to determine ways of safeguarding against over-exploitation of these aquifers in future
investments in irrigation production and to insure sustainability of the irrigated farming systems by
developing techniques for proper husbandry of the soil and water resources on which such are based. The
monitoring system would focus on monitoring the performance and recharge characteristics of shallow
aquifers and the possible potential for causing excessive draw-down, the possibility of salinization of the
soils as a result of future irrigation under conditions of high evapotranspiration and possible contamination
of groundwater by agrochemicals. This component also includes soils and water erosion control works in
the river valley zone. The component was to be implemented by Government agencies.
e) SAVINGS AND LOAN SCHEMES; $0.9 M
This component would consist of a package of technical assistance and training services for promotion of
savings and credit schemes in the project area. ANPIP would contract the implementation of this
component to consulting firms.The contracting firm would be required to train Nigerien personnel to
prepare them to take over the implementation within three years. The pilot areas were to be selected on the
basis of following criteria: economic potential, investment profitability, access to market, cooperative
traditions, institutional base, particularly existence of farmers associations and support organization.
3.4 Revised Components:
The five original components remained the same throughout the project life. However a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit was included in the first component to ensure consistency and synergy among components.
The environmental protection component was restructured under new management of ANPIP. Also funding
of components and impact indicators were revised and adjusted during the Mid-Term Review.
3.5 Quahlty at Entry:
Quality at Entry was rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (a) consistency of objectives with the
priorities for rural development and poverty alleviation; (b) the project's participatory and bottom-up
methodology; (c) demonstrated capacity of the implementing agency; and (d) project design, which
accounted for institutional constraints and risks by incorporating flexibility and by fostering ownership at
the community level. The SAR documented the project and its background well and the MOP accurately
assessed potential political development which could contribute to project risks. However, one important
shortcoming was the lack of agreed monitoring indicators.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This section describes the overall outcomes of the project and those of each of its five components. They
are compared to the SAR requirements and the amendments introduced as a follow-up to the MTR mission.
The outcomes are analyzed with respect to their quality, relevance and impact on beneficiaries and on the
country.
Achievement of Global Objectives
Globally, the project outcomes are satisfactory. It achieved all of the main objectives and exceeded many of
them. The project has shown that the national agricultural strategy to increase production through support
- 3-



to the private agricultural sector is well justified and that projects financed by public funds can be
successfully implemented by the private sector. It effectively encouraged farmers' associations; helped
farmers to expand irrigated lands and to increase the profitability of their plots. Most of these achievements
are sustainable and had have a strong positive impact on productivity, revenue and welfare. The PPIP
evaluations and beneficiaries opinions expressed to the ICR mission suggest that after the project
completion, the new irrigation technologies will continue to have a positive impact on small-scale private
irrigation. Environmental Protection was the weakest component of the project; the outcomes of
environmental activities are significant but below SAR targets. Saving and credit schemes established by
the project are autonomously managed, used by 7,984 members, and have disbursed more than 4,000 loans.
In spite of this, their sustainability is not yet fully ensured. (It should be born in mind that this is only a
pilot, to be followed by a full-fledged operation geared towards long-term sustainability)
It is difficult to assess project's contribution to increased production as the aim of this pilot phase was to
test rather than to establish productive investments. However, it can be assumed that the project increased
food security for small-scale rural farmers, by placing at their disposal low cost technologies that brought
about substantial improvement in their productivity. The project introduced the treadle pump, which was
practically unknown in Niger, large-scale propagation of the tubular borehole, submerged pumps and
irrigation via buried pipes. The project also allowed for better utilization of motor-pump, thereby
improving their efficiency. The PPIP made it possible for some farm-managers to have access to new
irrigation technologies better adapted to Nigerien agriculture: about 1800 farm managers in the case of the
manual technologies and 1227 in the case of the mechanized technologies.
Access to irrigation technologies allowed for an increase in productivity, an increase in the land areas
irrigated during the dry season, and an increase in food security of the households. According to the results
of a survey conducted by ANPIP's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, the increase in areas cultivated was
63%, in the case of the manual technologies and 24%, in the case of the mechanized technologies. The
increase in yields of the farms monitored was around 27% for onion and 32% for sweet pepper. These two
crops cover 70% of the land areas farmed in the sites covered by the surveys. In total it is estimated that
1,100 ha were additionally put in use by the promotion of both technologies Manual (500) and mechanized
(600).
Table 3: Performance Indicators for development objective
Adjusted after                 Objective
Mid-term                  achievement as
Projected in SAR  evaluation   Achieved at  % of adjusted
Indicator                (03/30/1995)   (05/1999)     (03/31/2002)   indicators
GIE trained                                1,400         1,400
Improved hand dug wells methods tested     27             13            13            100
Manual water lifting technologies tested   12             10            10            100
Water distribution technologies tested      8             7              7            100
Number of new technology demonstrations   1,600          1,600          678           42
Craftsmen trained in irrigation equipment  50             70            101           144
production and maintenance
Persons trained in saving and credit principles  2,000   382            346           91
Mechanized pumping techniques tested       15             16            16            100
Mechanized water distribution technologies  20            6              6            100
tested                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Mechanized technology training              180           54            382           707
- 4 -



Table 3: Performance indicators for impact
Adjusted after                Objective
Mid-tenn                  achievement as
Projected in  evaluation   Achieved at  % of adjusted
Indicator                   SAR       (05/1999)     (03/31/2002)   indicators
(03/30/1995)
Manual pump sales motivated by the project   600         1,000         1,103          110
Established savings and credit associations  60           30            27            90
Persons requesting and receiving an assistance for
.      Project preparation                  3,100        402           1,417          352
.      Procurement and contract management  220          220            187           85
Obtaining tenure security            950          385            171           44
Farners using tested mechanized techniques  750          750           1,427          190
Farners using tested manual techniques      3,250        3,250         2,042          63
In general, sustainability of the project achievements and their extension to other regions of Niger can not
yet be ensured without the following conditions: some limited technical follow-up is needed to help farmers
to further adjust their agricultural practices to the project introduced technologies; the newly created
Economic Interest Groups (GIE) do not have yet clear aims on good work plans, and they are not
financially independent; the saving and credit schemes have only two to four years of existence which is
quite a short period of time; the extension of new technologies to the other regions of Niger will require
further technical assistance and extension similar to the those provided by the PPIP project. All of these
requirements will be satisfied by the full-scale irrigation project Cr.362 1-NIR approved on April 8, 2002
4.2 Outputs by comnponents
Achievement of objectives by component
Project objectives were achieved through activities executed by five components: (a) Private Irrigation
Management Agency Component; (b) Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation Component; (c) Manual Irrigation
Component; (d) Environmental Protection Component; and (e) Savings and Credit Schemes Component.
The components "b" and "c" were designed to provide farmers with locally tested and adapted drilling
equipment, water pumps and improved water distribution technologies. The component "e" was to promote
viable financial services for farmers and train them in savings and credit union principles. The Component
"d" was to develop capacities for assessing the impact of irrigation on land and water resources, and
finally, the first component was to strengthen institutional capacities in support of the national strategy on
small-scale irrigation promotion. Outcomes of these components constitute a coherent set of results that
should stimulate and guide small-scale private irrigation promotion.
a) Private Irrigation Management Aaencv
The Private Irrigation Management Agency (ANPIP) aimed to build institutional and technical capacity for
the promotion of the Government's private sector strategy for development of small-scale irrigation, the
delivery of services through contract management and the introduction of demand-driven assistance to
small farmers using procedures that ensure transparency and cost-effectiveness.
- 5-



Expected outputs:
In order to conduct this program, the component ANPIP was delegated responsibility to: (a) carry out
promotional campaigns in support of the Government's irrigation development strategy; (b) facilitate small
farmer's access to the legal and administrative procedures for obtaining tenure securit; (c) provide
assistance, upon demand, in preparation of bankable irrigation projects and in establishing economic
interest groups (GIEs); and (d) ensure overall project implementation.
Achievements
The component has developed an original approach to implementing the new national irrigation strategy. It
successfully assisted ANPIP to grow from a small group of ten individuals gradually to 19 decentralized
committees constituting 13,500 fatners. The new national irrigation policy was disseminated through
3,000 copies of a printed booklet and prospectus as well as radio and TV commercials. Jointly with the
Permanent Secretariat for the Rural Code (Secretariat du Code Rural), the component elaborated
guidelines for land tenure security procedures. The component carried out an information campaign on
small scale irrigation, which reached 2,000 representatives of farmers and administration and traditional
authorities. As a follow-up of this campaign around 15,000 farmners (including 462 women) were organized
into 1,521 economic interest groups (GIE). The project trained 2,990 GIE members in private irrigation
development; group management and administration.
In 2000, as a follow-up of mid-term review (MTR), the component created a monitoring and evaluation
unit that, through an independent monitoring team, described project progress in quarterly reports and
analyzed its impact on beneficiaries. The component produced a CD-ROM containing the project's
technical documents, and created a web site.
Until the MTR, ANPIP as project implementing agency managed four of the project's five components (the
Environrmental Protection Component was executed by INRAN and Direction des Ressources en eaux);
after the MTR, all five components were managed by ANPIP.
From the institutional development standpoint the project succeeded in establishing an association covering
private irrigation agents and professionals in related activities, from the grassroots to the national level. The
association represents, provides services and defends interests of small-scale irrigators. In addition, the
project succeeded in establishing an association of artisans, pump manufacturers and drillers which is also
a member of ANPIP. The project established an executing agency which, in addition to PPIP, is presently
executing two other projects funded by donors other than the World Bank. Lastly the project established
two functional economic interest groups (GTE) that provides counseling support service composed of some
newly recruited young professionals (one in Niamey and the other in Maradi).
Assessment
The component actively promoted the national policy concerning private small scale irrigation development.
It strengthened the farmer's association and created more of the GIEs than targeted in the SAR. It is widely
considered in Niger that the association's development reflects a positive reaction of irrigating farmers to
the newly elaborated national strategy for agricultural development, especially in irrigation. The
Government's decision to execute the key project activities through a private agency and then to transfer all
the activities to this agency increased the prestige of the associative movement and has given the project
even higher visibility.
The SAR requested the project to assist individual farmers in project preparation, procurement and contract
management, and in securing land tenure. In two of the three activities under this section the Component
obtained results inferior to the targets, even those revised by the MTR. This discrepancy originated in (a)
- 6 -



an inadequate selection of output indicators in the SAR (the SAR does not justify requirements conceming
the quantity of the products to deliver, the most of the targeted quantities should have been revised during
the MTR; even this ad-hoc revision did not reflect the implementation possibilities of the project, since
some of the new targets were exceeded, whereas others were not attained); (b) a lower than estimated
number of request for procurement and contracts due to the absence of rural credit, and (c) a perception by
the beneficiaries that land tenure security should be solved through traditional channels and not
administrative ones.
The Govemment's opinion, the beneficiary's conmments during visits by the ICR team, the opinion of the
World Bank country representation, and the review of available documents all support the opinion that the
management of the project by the agency was highly satisfactory.
b) Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation Component
The small-scale Mechanized Irrigation Component included tests and evaluations of simple, low-cost
mechanized technologies appropriate to farms cultivating plots of more than 0.5 ha. The component was to:
(a) promote existing technologies; (b) research less common technologies (well drilling, water distribution,
small motor and electrical pump introduction); and (c) build local capacities by organizing workshops and
field trips. The technologies selected and recommended by the Component were to be additionally tested
and then disseminated by the agricultural extension service supported by the IDA-financed Agricultural
Services Project (Cr. 2355-NIR). After the Mid-term Review the additional testing and dissemination was
transferred to an NGO.
Expected outputs
The component sought to test 18 mechanized pumping technics, 20 mechanized water distribution technics,
and organize 180 demonstration and dissemination sessions. It was expected, that at the end of the project,
at least 750 farmers would have adopted the proposed mechanized technics. The Mid-term Review
mission's recommendations decreased the number of mechanized pumping techniques to 16, reduced the
water distribution technologies tested to 6 and reduced the training sessions to 54.
Achievements
The component organized 382 training sessions covering 4,150 participants which largely exceeded the
target set by the SAR. The training was complemented by radio and TV information, newspaper articles,
booklets and handbooks printed by the project, and demonstrations in local markets. More than 1,300
farmers including 303 women, purchased the equipment and applied the recommended technologies.
Among the trained craftsmen, 25 installed water distribution systems, 64 repaired motor-pumps, and 12
act, as advisers to farmers in irrigation techniques and agricultural practices. Farmers, craftsmen and
advisers were all from the private sector. All the outputs exceeded the SAR targets.
In addition, the tests and experiments allowed for better knowledge of the characteristics and performance
of the motor-pumps, thereby making it possible to advise producers on their investment.
In view of the availability and the present market trends, the following makes were selected for experiment:
Robin, Honda and Yamaha. On the whole, eleven (11) models of motor-pumps distributed, have been tested
including those with horse power of between 3 and 5, using petrol, kerosene, gas oil and mixture of petrol
and diesel.
Two additional models (imported from China and India) were tested. They were:
-7 -



*      Chinese model SSP 50-14 (mixture of petrol and diesel)
*      Indian model GREAVES CNVI-MK 12 (petrol).
At the end of the tests, considering their performance, it was observed that:
*      The Robin Jard 35E motor-pump was well adapted to the pumping conditions observed in the field;
it is also technically and economically competitive;
*      The diesel motor-pump was also technically competitive, but with high investment cost: spare-parts
not easily available and costly. Its maintenance was partly mastered by local repairers;
*      The petrol motor-pump showed good economic profitability, but the fuel cost fluctuated
considerably. Its maintenance becomes increasingly difficult after one to two years of utilization, as it is
highly sensitive to fuel quality;
*      The Chinese motor-pump exhibited very low investment cost (factory price: 50,000 FCFA) making
it more easily accessible to producers, although their technical performance was poor. Its performance
(consumption, productivity) could probably improve with more modifications;
*      The Yamaha MT 110 motor-pump with a two-time engine (mixture) was highly regarded by some
of the irrigation agents as it needed only minor maintenance despite of its high investment cost (350,000 F
CFA). Its maintenance requirements which are similar to those of motorcycles is mastered by local
repairers.
Some improvements have been made by training some of the irrigation agents on the use and maintenance
of motor-pumps, notably, on regulation of the compensatory screw, frequency of maintenance operations,
use of good quality fuel and lubricant in order to reduce the burdens of the irrigation agents.
Assessment
The component's results are highly satisfactory and important for farmers who are involved in mechanized
irrigation. The large adoption of the component's recommendations suggests and that the component
correctly interpreted the test results and the proposed equipment and introduced adjustments corresponded
to the farmers expectations. The objectives of the component were clearly stated in the SAR, and the NGO
which implemented the component did it efficiently. The performance indicators reflect the progress in
output implementation.
c) Improved Manual Irrigation Component
The Improved Manual Irrigation Component was designated to test and assess manual technology packages
suitable for farms cultivating plots of less than 0.5 ha. To this effect, the component was to: (a) improve
hand dug wells; (b) improve manual water lifting technologies; (c) test simple water distribution
technology; and (c) train local artisans. The component sought to include a package of technical and
training support services in storage, conservation, processing, commercialization, maintenance and repair
in the irrigation sub-sector. Particular attention was to be devoted to technologies acceptable to women.
The implementation of the component was assigned to an NGO; the extension was to be carried out by the
extension services of the IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project.
Expected outputs
The component was designated to test 12 water source development technologies, 27 manual water lifting
- 8-



technologies and 8 water distribution technologies. Then it was to select technologies best adapted to local
conditions and train 50 craftsmen in equipment production and maintenance. One thousand and six hundred
dissemination sessions were to encourage 3,250 farmers to adopt the recommended technologies and
acquire 600 pumps. The Mid-term Review revised these targets downwards: the component was to test of
10 water source development technologies, 13 water lifting technologies and 7 distribution technologies.
On the other hand, the component was to train 70 craftsmen instead of 50, and to motivate both craftsmen
and farmers so that 1,000 pumps should be made and sold. The Mid-term Review recommended to
transfer the extension from the closed IDA supported project to the component.
Achievements
The component organized the requested tests, trained 101 craftsmen instead of 60 and motivated 1,103
farmers to acquire a pump. The trained craftsmen drilled 719 new wells. The farmers who adopted the
manual irrigation techniques benefited from the supervision of the component' agents. The publicity was
carried out through demonstrations, radio and television broadcasts, (which became very popular),
brochures, books, and technical notes. After the tests, the project propagated a whole range of approved
water tapping, de-watering and water distribution technologies such as:
*      PVC tubular borehole
*      Sinking wells
*      Foot pump "Bangladesh"
*      Hand pump
*      Depth pump
*      Big diameter pump "Bangladesh"
*      The Califomian or "Zamani" distribution system.
Assessment
The component obtained highly satisfactory results. The project targets were exceeded. The designed and
tested materials are considered by the beneficiaries to be of high quality and adapted to the local conditions.
The component brought innovation in pumping and well drilling systems and proposed improved, lower
cost systems. The equipment is especially suited to new market gardeners and those having small irrigated
plots. The improved pumps are produced in Niger, they are robust and adapted to the local demand; their
maintenance is simple. Thanks to the component's innovations, the production costs of one pump was
reduced from 60 to 35 thousand FCFA.
d) Environmental Protection ComDonent
The Environment Protection Component was to monitor shallow aquifer levels, and soil and water quality
in the project zones. The monitoring was to focus on performance monitoring and recharge characteristics
of these aquifers. The component also included some soil erosion control work. Initially, the management
and implementation of the component was entrusted to INRAN and DRE. After the Mid-term Review, the
management was transferred to ANPIP's project execution agency which implemented the activities through
an NGO in the western zone, and through the local services of the Ministry of the Environment in the
eastern zone.
Expected outputs
The project was to install 61 piezometers, rehabilitate 5,000 cubic meter of ravines, stabilize 150 ha of
dunes, protect 60 ha of irrigated plots, and analyze 200 soil and 72 water samples.
9-



Results
The project installed 82 piezometers for shallow groundwater aquifer monitoring and attempted to interpret
the evolution of their levels. The results of the piezometric measurements were difficult to interpret because
of the small number of piezometers and lack of leveling among them. Seventy-two water and 228 soil
samples were analyzed, some in considerable detail, but the results were not followed by recommendations
for potential beneficiaries such as irrigating farmers, irrigator associations or extension services. The
piezometers monitoring, and soil and water sampling did not provide information about the impact of
irrigation on soil and water.
Soil erosion controls covered several localities: in the western part of Niger in Tera, Say and Kollo regions;
in the vicinity of Niamey; and in the east in Guidimouni, Droum (Mirriah) and Gourgia (Aguie). Progress
in achieving outputs was slow until the MTR; it accelerated once the responsibility for the execution of the
component's activities was transferred to the ANPIP managed executing agency.
Assessment
The results obtained are unsatisfactory. Only parts of the expected output were delivered. Water level
measurements in shallow aquifer did not significantly change cultivation of irrigated perimeters mainly
because technology used for water extraction were in adequacy with the capacity of the aquifer
regeneration. Water and soil analyses also did not show any negative impact of agricultural practices used
by farmers on their irrigated plots. This is because intensification is not yet fully developed in most of
project areas. However with the scaling up the project which will encourage access to many farmers to
more en more efficient technologies and use of modem inputs there is need to continue monitoring these
aspects Some conservation structures and reforestation activities do not meet the required standards.
Nevertheless, in some places, in particular in the eastern zone, the activities responded better to the
technical requirements and the activities were executed with significant voluntary participation of local
communities. Sustainability of these activities remained questionable
e) Savine and Credit Component
The Saving and Credit Component was to test and promote viable financial services for rural communities
and introduce them to savings and credit union administration principles. The component was implemented
by an NGO, which initiated a large scale movement of savings and loans in Niger in the 1980's.
Expected outputs
The component was to set up 60 saving and credit schemes and train 2000 individuals in banking principles
and practices. The Mid-term Review mission modified these targets to 30 schemes, 382 scheme managers
trained and 14,500 savers mobilized.
Results
The project successfully launched awareness campaigns and identified localities suitable for establishing
the saving and credit schemes. Despite the NGO's skill and experience, 4 to 5 information sessions instead
of 2 or 3 initially programmed were needed to mobilize the beneficiaries to create a scheme: low savings
levels among the rural population impoverished by poor harvests was the central reason of this delay. At
present, the component has created 27 schemes gathering 7,280 members, 27% of them are women.Total
savings amounting to 716 million CFA is far beyond the expectations However, the small amount of
savings mobilized (29,000 CFA per member) enables the schemes to grant only modest loans (an average
of 117,000 CFA per loan). Despite this demand for credit is high: 4,313 members have already obtained
loans. Some schemes have received funds deposited by aid projects that permit then to grant loans of more
than 500,000 CFA with repayments spread over several farming seasons. More than 350 persons have
- 10-



benefited from loans from these funds. The loan repayment rate is satisfactory. Only three schemes have
more than 200/o unpaid loans; and due to significant pressure within those communities that want the credit
schemes to succeed these loans have a high likelihood of being repaid.
Assessment
The results of the component activities are satisfactory. No project funds were deposited in the schemes;
funds were provided mostly by farmers themselves and some outside donors. Presently, the credit unions
are serving the populations well: they mobilize savings and grant loans. The establishment of credit unions,
elections of administrative committees, mobilization of savings and the establishment of repayment
discipline are perceived by the beneficiaries to be important factors in community life, promoting local
initiatives and strengthening solidarity. The schemes succeeded in introducing savings and loan principles
and administration. However, to date, only 17.6% of loans have been devoted to irrigation. Most of loan
money is used to finance social events such as marriages as well as diverse commercial and other
productive activities. Irrigation farmers also seek larger loans for equipment investment, and repayment
schedules adapted to seasonal cash flow in relation to crop harvest and marketing. In accordance with the
SAR, the Govemment has respected the autonomy and the private character of the schemes.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project has confimned the relevance of current policy which considers the agricultural sector as the
driving force for economic growth. The project also represents a successful application of a gradual
disengagement (launched in the 1980's) of the Govemment from agricultural production organization and
control in favor of the private sector and farmers' organizations. In accordance with this policy, the project
administration and implementation was entrusted to a private structure. The project's success confimns the
validity of the new social and economic policy of Niger.
4 4 Financial rate of return:
After two decades of questionable cost-effectiveness in large perimeters development schemes, the
govemment has focused on small-scale irrigation through supporting land security, producers' professional
associations, and by facilitating their access to water and inputs. This strategy has enabled the govemment
to liberalize the prices of agricultural products, adopt laws related to rural code, clarify land systems,
remove taxes on agricultural imports and exports, and introduce fiscal advantages for investors in
agriculture. The project success is the immediate result of these measures.
Since the project goals were technology testing and evaluation, with local capacity building through private
sector development; the SAR did not require evaluation of its internal rate of return. However, two
components of the project, those of Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation and the Improved Manual Irrigation
achieved results that can be expressed in financial and economic terms. Introduction of manual pumping
technology doubles the cultivated surface area, the economic rate of return (ERR) equals 68 percent. The
mechanized irrigation multiply the cultivated surface area by four, ERR equals 66 percent.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project strengthened the small irrigating farmers association ANPIP, the Saving and Credit Unions
MCPEC and mobilized farmers to create the economic interest groups (GIE). All these institutions operate
in the private sector and are economically tied with the private irrigation development. It can be expected
that they will continue to look for new market opportunities such as: agricultural counseling, equipment
production and servicing, and marketing of inputs. In the past, many of these activities were entrusted to
the Government extension services. However, the appearance of these new organizations coupled with the
mixed results obtained by the Government agencies responsible for extension and environmental protection
activities will probably stimulate other projects and private sector to call more often upon
-11 -



non-governmental institutions. In this perspective, if the trend continues, the Government may be obliged to
redefine the role and objectives of its own institutions concemed with private irrigation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. l Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A project may suffer from unexpected consequences dependent on uncontrollable risks, government
development actions and factors controlled by the project implementation agency. This chapter analyzes the
effects of these factors on the project implementation.
Long delays from preparation to effectiveness were due to political and social unrest experienced in Niger
during its initial experience with restored democracy between 1990 and 1996. During that time there was
constant turnover among the Government's interlocutors with the Bank. And given the innovative approach
of the project, there was an understandable unwillingness on the part of the Government to engage in the
risks conceivably embedded in this project.
The irrigation sector is, in principle, protected from climatic hazards - the key factor of uncertainty and risk
in Niger's agriculture. However, abundance of rains and expansion of rainfed crops can reduce the demand
for irrigation. Irrigated agriculture also depends on the fluctuation of regional market prices for vegetables.
For example, good rains combined with low onion and rice prices recorded in 1992, 1993 and 2000 in the
international market had a negative impact on the profitability of irrigated plots in Niger
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project execution was not hindered by Government actions. On the contrary, the initiative given by the
Government to the irrigating farmers association, and its confidence in the implementing agency
contributed significantly to the success of the project. The Government disbursed its funds with some delay
and incompletely (at June 30, 2001 only 0.29 out of 0.7 million of counterpart funds were disbursed) which
had some impact on project administration, however this did not cause major delays in execution. During
the project's life, Government financial resources were very limited which constrained to the public. The
Government was unable to respond to new demands created by the project, namely in extension,
agricultural advice, facilitation of input accessibility, price and market information and, most of all, in rural
credit availability. To overcome these shortcomings, the Government transferred all activities to the ANPIP
project management. It also placed the rural micro-financing under its tutelage with MCPEC, a private
rural saving and credit association. Also project operations were facilitated and strengthened by the new
national surface water and irrigation management strategy and by the clear definition of the role of
irrigation in the national economy
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PPIP implementation agency - ANPIP has fulfilled all of its obligations. It has installed all the
necessary tools and procedures to ensure that financial and administrative management is carried out in
accordance with the regulations of the Govemment and the Bank. The agency has produced an inventory of
equipment, vehicles, consumables and furniture. Procurement procedures have been respected, competent
personnel have been hired, and the recruitment procedures were transparently followed. The agency follows
and supervises the project components through quarterly progress reports, through a specialized PPIP
divisions, and quarterly meetings. In addition, on a monthly basis, the director general and the heads of
departments visit a given area in order to assess progress made in implementation. Upon closing of the
extension project which was intend to carry out training and dissemination of technologies, ANPIP
encouraged private sector to fill the gap. Two GIEs constituted by young graduate were able to advise
farmers on the procurement and use of new technologies.
- 12 -



On a regular basis, the agency submits activity programs and estimated budget to the Government and the
Bank. Quarterly and yearly reports were prepared in a comprehensive and regular way. To ensure a project
completion in conformity with Niger's and the Bank's regulations, the agency has already requested the
services of a legal expert.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Taking into consideration the pilot character of the project, the final USD costs (6.6 million USD) are very
close to the SAR estimate (6.8 million USD) in spite of a 18 months extension of the project. At no time
was there any problem experienced with the flow of disbursement.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for ststainabiliy rating:
Most of the project's outputs are sustainable because irrigation activities are traditionally practiced by
farmners long time ago.Value added of the project was just to ease hard labor, reduce cost and increase
profitability. Technologies introduced by the project are simple, low cost and reproducible because most
can be manufactured by local artisans. Niger has the most shallow aquifer abundance in west Africa and
capacity of promoted technologies would be tapping only a small portion of water resource available.
Institutional frame work established by the project promoted farmers ownership and empowerment in
decision making process without Government intervention which will reduce uncertainty. Credit and
savings schemes have become popular, they are mobilizing more en more savings for irrigation
development which may lead to a healthy rural credit system. All related irrigation activities are private and
market oriented and no subsidy mechanism is involved. Recurrent food shortages due mainly to drought in
Niger is a powerful incentive for farmers to continue irrigation to insure food security and poverty
reduction. Given the success of the promoted technologies and a relative easy access to them, it is assumed
that farmers may not go back to hand fetching of water to increase their income and improve their welfare.
However, six points relevant to sustainability of these achievements call for attention:
*   Sensitization and training of GIE needs to be pursued after the completion of the project, since the
majority (72 percent) consider the organization only as an entry point for obtaining credit;
*   Despite the craftsmen's training and equipment availability, the sustainability of the improved
irrigation technologies is not totally guaranteed. The difficulties in managing an irrigated garden
are many and the inexperienced gardeners continue to request assistance in pump maintenance,
agricultural techniques, crop protection, conservation and commercialization methods.
*   For the time being, farmers do not have easy access to credit for inputs or equipment purchase
there is no agricultural Bank nor any form of subsidy. The smooth running of all the credit unions
is not guaranteed following the completion of the project. Experience shows that almost 1/2 of the
credit unions established in Niger continue to exist after their founding project expires while the
remaining half disappear. Therefore, before the newly extended credit unions system reaches
maturity, farmers access to credit should be assured through other means, for example via
"matching grants".
*  Wind and water erosion controls (which have been initiated by the project) cover areas outside of
the valleys exploited by the market gardeners. These areas usually belong to owners who take no
interest in irrigation and may be reluctant to replace their traditional farming methods which have
- 13 -



led to the present state of degradation. Combined with the temporary nature of the executed works,
this fact casts doubt on the sustainability of the activities financed under the Environmental
Protection Component.
*   Ensuring ongoing progress in new irrigation technologies calls for continued testing and
modification of equipment and methods suited to Niger's changing conditions and informing
farmers about these new developments.
*   Irrigated crops are less exposed to climatic hazards than rainfed ones. However, since investment
in irrigation is costly, the farmer's tolerance to risk is low. Nigerien farrners are not yet protected
against risks, therefore expected extension of the irrigation may be an opportunity to launch a
nationwide consultative process regarding the introduction of insurance schemes in agriculture.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was envisaged as a pilot phase of a longer-term investment program to realize the full potential
of technologies developed, systems and skills created. Commitments both from the Bank and the
Government of additional funding have been made and the second phase is nearing implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending-
PCD to appraisal was delayed from 1990 to 1995 for two main reasons: (a) long internal debate about
whether or not to agree on an IDA Line of Credit, which was in the original project design in order to
finance the irrigation development component; and (b) protracted negotiations, first with the
newly-established SONIBANK (which we planned to use as financial intermediary) and then CARE
Intemational--an NGO- (which had agreed to serve as implementing agency of the line of credit for a
management fee). Both were abandoned because of a management decision to cancel the IDA line of
credit. the project team decided to redesign the project, focusing on testing and disseminating simple, low
cost smallholders irrigation technologies and institution-building, rather than abandon the project. The
project's success may in large part be attributed to this narrowed focus and its innovative institutional
design.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank has reviewed and approved all the project's tendering and consultant hiring decisions. It has
examined and approved the administrative and financial management procedures as well as procedural
manuals. The project received 15 supervision missions, at an average of more than two per year because of
its pilot nature. A Mid-term Review was carried out in May 1999. Funds were replenished with an
acceptable 2 to 3 weeks delay. Non-objection requests were received with some delay during the first three
years and, some of them were never addressed; following the appointment of a project manager based in
Niamey, the project requests were addressed promptly.
7 3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory in lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions included the required
expertise, and local staff continuously monitored project activities. One of the most positive aspect is that
Task Team Leadership was decentralized to the field in order to minimize project activity delays.
Preparation of the second phase was advanced in order to minimize the transition period between the pilot
phase and the investment one.
- 14 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. Project preparation was undertaken by a
local multidisciplinary working group established by the Government in 1990. This group participated
actively in the design and preparation of this project and was assisted by a FAO/CP team in writing the
project final preparation report. This report is based on various surveys and project preparation working
papers prepared by the local group.The Government and the Bank jointly prepared a project in April 1992,
which would have included a line of credit, estimated at 75 percent of the IDA credit, to finance on-farm
investments. Following the elimination of the IDA line of credit, in August 1993, due to the prevailing
unfavorable macroeconomic and financial sector enviromnent, the Government and the Bank redesigned the
project in November,1993 to focus on building the technical and institutional capacity that would permit
sustainable private sector investment in irrigation subsector. There was close cooperation at the time of
preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the leadership and vision provided by the main
counterpait in the ministries of Planning, Finance and Rural Development ensured that the project that
developed was appropriate to Niger's needs. Farmer organizations, various NGOs and representatives from
all the counterpart agencies were involved in the preparation despite profound political unrest at the time.
Between appraisal to effectiveness, the Government delayed payment of its counterpart contribution,
because of the deteriorating public finance situation of the country.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Governmnent of the Republic of Niger assigned implementation of the project to a specialized NGO
(ANPIP)Alt participated in all the project's supervision missions organized by the World Bank.
Recognizing the unsatisfactory performance of extension and environment protection activities, the
Government conferred their implementation to ANPIP as executing agency. However the Government was
unable to contribute fully to project financing, and follow-up of the project by its specialized agencies was
hindered by lack of funds. Given the positive development impact of the project ( efficient use of
technologies leading to an expansion in cultivated area and increase of farm income) the Government
requested and obtained an extension of the closing date from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2001. The
extension permitted a successful completion of the innovations in technology transfer and institution
building as well as helping create conditions for sustainability. Taking to scale successful interventions
need to consider the time required to build additional capacity to ensure appropriate follow up and quality
in the delivery of the interventions. Too much too soon leads to serious operational drawbacks.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing Agency's performance is assessed highly satisfactory due to outstanding achievements of
project objectives, successful experience and lessons learned under pilot project, its efforts to explicitly
define potential trade-offs between objectives, its efforts to bring up some donors on board, quality of audit
effective and efficient communication system developed and it's success in keeping good working
relationship with Government and the Bank as well as others institutions and farmer associations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government during the project implementation is assessed as satisfactory.
The Government did not interfere in the management of project funds and respected its commitment for
providing most of the counterpart funding. However many of the Govemment's representatives were
unenthusiastic about project management by private entities. Consequently, follow-up on project activities
and technical support from Government agencies were lacking during the first three years of the project.
The Government became very supportive of the project only when the technologies were developed and
enthusiasm arose from farmers all over the country for this new approach.
- 15-



8. Lessons Learned
The management of this important project, and its numerous technical achievements provide an opportunity
to draw several lessons that will help in designing and executing similar projects. This section groups them
in six points presented in the order of the project' components.
*      Implementation of the PPIP demonstrated that a private structure such as ANPIP can be a
competent and efficient manager of a development project financed with public resources and that Niger's
private sector has the skills and capabilities to successfully organize and manage complex rural
development programs providing the Government willingness to play its facilitating role.
*      The project experience shows that small scale mechanized and improved manual irrigation in Niger
are an efficient tools for increasing food security, profitability and incomes and poverty reduction in rural
areas.
*      Well targeted publicity can play a decisive role in technologies promotion and a steady increase in
their adoption by farmers even among population with a low literacy rate.
*      The improved or newly introduced technologies and the saving and credit unions were introduced
by the project exclusively using free market, private sector driven initiatives. The project raised awareness,
trained and demonstrated, but investment in equipment production, its purchasing and installation, saving
and credit mobilization (with exception of five schemes that received small trust fund from other donors)
were ensured by farmers. The adoption rate and the use of the new technologies and new organizational
skills represents the success of a genuine, market driven trend even when public extension services are not
fully operational.
*      One of PPIP's greatest contributions to development impact was through its flexibility, recognizing
that promoting private approach in rural development is a slow and complex process. Constant adjustments
were necessary throughout the five years and half of project activity. The first 2 years were spent in
preaching the approach, sensitizing, training and organizing. the third and fourth year actions started taken
up and by the fifth year results showed up. The project was designed for four years but implementation
took five year and half to get significant results. Therefore the Bank should focus more on an agreed-to
process that can respond to changing situations.
*      Progressive adoption rate of technologies is a guarantee for sustainability; for example from hand
fetching to treadles pump up to mechanized pumping. It is important not to short-circuit the natural
progression in technologies adoption. A rational expansion of farm size is based not only on land, labor and
capital availability but also on the know how.
*      A focus on outcome and output indicators is critical, especially in a pilot project activities. The
Bank's current requirement to include these as a central aspect of any project is very useful as highlighted
by the retrofitting within this project during the Mid-Term Review. Having this at the start of the project
would have helped to re-focus activities when circumstances changed.
*      Because two parallel structures (private and public) were considered, project design should have
include an agreed exit strategy with a step-wise plan of action which delineates clear benchmarks during all
stages of project implementation to ensure a gradual transfer of acquired capacity to mainstream
institutions or a phasing out of mainstream institutions if project-created structures are to prevail at project
completion.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PPIP has been a successful agricultural development project because of its innovative approaches and
specifically designed strategies for increasing food security and rural income. It has also been effective at
establishing successful private sector-government partnership and for providing the foundation for
long-terrn sustainability. Most of the targets were achieved. Only a few, such as numbers of demonstrations
and numbers of farmers requesting and obtaining land tenure security services are low compared to
appraisal estimates of 42 and 44 % respectively.
PPIP implementation resulted in the effective establishment of a farmers association (ANPIP) embracing
private irrigation agents and professionals in related activities. It has also permitted the establishment of the
country's first operational project execution agency for private irrigation. Well-adapted technologies are
being propagated in a self-sustaining manner. This sub-contracting approach plus a well designed and
effective communications campaign greatly contributed to project success.
Constraints encountered included a lack of support from public extension services to participate in
demonstrations of the technologies because of their limited resources, the absence of rural credit, and well
developed input supply sector.
A subsequent project (PIP2) was formulated and will be implemented on the basis of PPIP. To this end, it
should upgrade and amplify the gains of PPIP and remove the constraints observed during its
implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Out-contracting via the private sector was highly appreciated because more flexible and rewarding than via
the public sector. PPIP gave great opportunity for certain national as well as some international NGOs to
reinforce their capacity and demonstrate their efficiency in irrigation development.
10. Additional Information
A. Future Operations
The project has enabled private irrigating farmers in five areas of Niger to increase their production and
incomes. This experience needs to be made sustainable and deserves to be extended to other areas of the
country. Without such actions, impact of the project will be limited and full return on will also be limited.
Therefore a second phase of the project has been designed and approved by the Board on March 19, 2002.
The following points were taken into account for the future operation to succeed and be fully sustainable.
*      As envisaged by the SAR, the project contributed to strengthening the private irrigator's
association. This contribution was one of the most important financial resources for the association's
operation. Since the project ended in 2001 it is important for ANPIP to continue developing services and
activities that will attract financing for their operations. This may, for example, consist of offering to its
members such paid services as mediation in social conflicts, solving land tenure disputes or legal
protection, or offering to the Government its skills in organizing community action aimed at controlling soil
erosion, and aquifer overexploitation.
- 17 -



*      Further extension of the introduced technologies needs to be supported by a parallel development of
specialized services, markets, and extension agencies. The irrigating farmers and their association may
promote creation and expansion of these institutions. The Government may provide training and technical
assistance. The project's experience shows that the new irrigation technology introduction should be
supported by intensive training, demonstrations and technical assistance, since poorly installed and/or
improperly used irrigation equipment would cause a decrease in an irrigator's revenue and subsequent
return to the traditional less efficient but more familiar technologies.
*      Further expansion of irrigation and the anticipated increase in crop productivity will modify the
present balance among input supply, production, and market demand, and it will create new needs in
post-harvest crop conservation and marketing skills. These anticipated changes should be assessed, and
action taken to ensure the adequate balance between increased demand for services and their availability to
farmers. The private irrigation association, the Government or development projects can be at the origin of
these initiatives.
*      The farmers, their associations, and the Government should follow the evolution of shallow
aquifers, monitor water and soil quality and combat soil erosion. The aquifer monitoring should inform the
Government about water availability for irrigation, and soil and water quality analysis should help farmers
to adjust irrigation techniques and fertilizer applications to the prevailing soil and water conditions. Finally,
erosion control should preserve the productive potential of the irrigated lands. This systematic and complex
follow-up was initiated by the project, but it still needs to be improved and it should be continued on a
regular basis.
e      The PPIP experience shows that development of private irrigation requires both investment and
production credit. Currently, only short term credit is available through the private savings and credit
unions. It is therefore essential to ensure further development of rural credits unions and help them to offer
credits adjusted to the long term specific needs of small irrigating farmers.
18



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                 Projected In last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
-Smaliholders technoogy improvement The techndogy promotion benefited 3,469  The techndogy promotion benefited 3,469
smaliholders farmers through increase  smaliholders farmers through increase productvity
productivity and in,ome. Cost of technology  and income. Cost of technology reduced to one
reduced to one thkd. area cultivated using  third. area cultivated using manual and
manual and mechanical has increased about  mechanical has increased about three-fold
three-fold compared to the without project  compared to the without project scenario Locat
scenario Local capacity for manufacturing  capacity for manufacturing technology is in place
technology is in place.
Understanding and managing savings Saving and credi schemes establshed by the  Saving and credlt schemes established by the
and credi schemes-              project are autonomously managed, used by  project are autonomously managed, used by 7.984
7,984 members, and have disbursed more than members, and have disbursed more than 4,000
4,000 loans capacity to manage scheme i in  loans capacity to manage scheme i In place and
place and understanding credt principle by  understanding aedRt prindple by farTners has
farmers has increased significantly.   increased significantly.
-Management of public resources  ANPIP's development reflects a positive  ANPIP's development reflects a positive reaction
funded project by private entity  reaction of irrigating farmers to the newly  of irrigating farmers to the newly elaborated
elaborated natonal strategy for agricultural  nabonal sbtategy for agricultural development
development, especialy in irngabon The  especially In irrigabon The Governmenfs decision
Govemmenrfs decision to execute the key  to execute the key project activities through a
project actMibes through a pivate agency and  private agency and then to transfer all the actvities
then to transfer all the acdvities to this agency  to this agency increased the prestige of the
increased the prestige of the associative  associative movement and has given the project
movement and has given the project even  even higher visibility ANPIP's capacity for
higher visibility. ANPIPs capadty for mondonng monitoring and evaluabtng project performance
and evaluating project performance and  and development impact has improved
development impact has improved significantly significantly.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                  Actuai/Latest Estimate
-Number of beneflicaries trained in  100 local atisans to be trained in manufacture  101 local artisans trained in manufacture of
manufacture of small-scale manual  of small-scale irrigabon equipment  small-scale irrigation equipment
irrigation equipment increased(to be
checked aganst targets in contract
wth ATi, the implementng NGO).
Adoption by the target benefidaries  More than 3,469 farmers including 103 women More than 3,469 farmers including 103 women
(as measured by the quantifiable  purchased the equipment and applied the  purchased the equipment and applied the
targets agreed with AFRVP, the  recommended technologies. Area cultivated  recommended technobgies. Area cultivated using
contractng NGO) of R&D results on  using manual and mechanical pumps has  manual and mechanical pumps has increased
mechanized small-scale imgaton  increased about three-fold compared to the  about three-fold compared to the without project
techniques.                     without projed scenario               scenario.
Number of savings and loan schemes 27 savings and loan schemes established, 382 27 savings and loan schemes establshed, 382
to be created realized(to be agreed in scheme managers trained, 2000 individuals  scheme managers trained. 2000 individuals
the oontract with the implementing  trained, 14,500 savers mobilized and 716  trained, 14,500 savers mobilized and 716 million
NGO)                            million CFA of saving.                CFA of saving.
-ANPIP's capabilites to manage the  The project successfufly assisted ANPIP to  The project successfully assisted ANPIP to grow
project is enhanced             grow from a small group of 10 gradually to 19  from a small group of 10 gradually to 19
decentralized committees which reached 2,990 decentralized committees which reached 2,990
representatives of farmers and administrative  representatives of farmerns and administratve and
and traditional authorities. Around 15,304  traditonal authorities. Around 15,304 farmers
farmers including 5262 women were organized including 5262 women were organized into 1,521
into 1,521 economic interest groups (GIE)  econorric interest groups (GIE). ANPIP's capaaty
ANPIP's capacity for monitoring and evaluation for monitoring and evaluation project
projed implementaton performance and  implementation performance and development
development impact has improved significantly. impact has improved significandy.
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
ProJect Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Private Project Management Agency (ANPIP)           1.30           2.18           167
Small-scale mechanized irrigation                   1.80           1.04            58
Improve manuel irrigation                           0.80           1.22           153
Environmental protection                            0.30           0.26            87
Saving and credit chemes                            0.90           0.63            70
PPF Refinancing                                     0.70           0.70           100
Studies and audits                                  0.70           0.30          0.43
Total Baseline Cost                                 6.50           6.33
Price Contingencies                                0.30           0.30
Total Project Costs             6.80           6.63
Total Financing Required             6.80           6.63
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.40         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  4.00         1.10         0.00         0.00        5.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Operations cost           0.00         1.00         0.00         0.30         1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00                      0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     4.40         2.10         0.00         0.30         6.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB            NCB        M thol2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB          Other______
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.40          0.00          0.00         0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                    2.53          2.70          0.00          0.00         5.23
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Operations cost             0.00           1.00         0.00          0.00          1.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        2.53          4.10          0.00         0.00          6.63
_ _ _   (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt.     CoF.      IDA       Govt.    CoF.     IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Vehicles, equipment &   0.40                         0.32                        80.0
materials
Consultant services,    4.50                         3.91                        86.9
training, studies & audits
Increm. operations costs  0.50    0.70               0.26      0.22              52.0   31.4
PPF 634 NIR             0.70                         0.51                        72.9
Unallocated             0.70                                                     0.0
-21-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Since the project goals were technology testing and evaluation, and local capacity building through private
sector development, the SAR did not require evaluation of its internal rate of return. However, two
components of the project, those of Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation and the Improved Manual Irrigation
achieved results that can be expressed in financial and economic terms. Introduction of manual pumping
technology doubles the cultivated surface area, the economic rate of return (ERR) equals 68 percent. The
mechanized irrigation multiply the cultivated surface area by four; ERR equals 66 percent.
Among the most significant indicators permitting to appraise the impact of the project on increase in
income, the following elements can be cited:
*      according to a survey conducted on some of the irrigation agents, acquisition of a foot pump makes
it possible to increase the land area previously cultivated by about three times;
*      the net income multiplied by 2.56 from F.CFA 11 6,000 to F.CFA 297,000 for the manual
technologies (mainly the foot pump);
*      monitoring of irrigation agents using some mechanized technologies, showed that the net margin of
the latter is, on average, F.CFA 628,440 with a standard difference of F.CFA 307,775, a minimum of
F.CFA 188,085 and a maximum of F.CFA 1,054,883;
*      the economic profitability is around 104% for the mechanized technologies and 217 percent for the
manual technologies.
Table 1. Economic and fiscal performances (in '000 FCFA) of mechanized irrigation farmn of 0,9 hectare (ERR =
68 %, actualization rate = 10 %)
Category                Farmer    Collectivity  National  Government World      Economy
market             market
Revenues
Market                   1 831       1 831     (I 831)                           1 831
Exportations en CFA       219        219                              (219)       239
Exportations en Naira     266        266                              (266)       266
Total                    2 316       2 316     (I 831)                (485)      2 336
Costs
Family work              (373)       (373)                                       (373)
Local costs              (156)       (156)       156                             (156)
Importations from the    (674)       (675)        13        80         581       (582)
Naira zone
Other importations       (303)       (303)        76        36         190       (292)
Costs for the project               (333)                  (333)
Total                    (2506)     (1 840)      245       (217)       771      (I 403)
Net                       810        477        (I 587)    (217)       288        934
-22 -



Table 11. Economic and fiscal perfomiances (in '000 FCFA) of manual pump irrigation -farm of 0,2 hectare (ERR =
66 %, actualization rate = 10 %)
Category                 Farmer    Collectivity  National  Government World       Economy
market              market
Revenues
Market                    360         360         (360)                             360
Exportations en CFA         8          8                                 (8)         8
Exportations en Naira      63          63                               (63)        63
Total                      431        432         (360)                 (71)   .    432
Costs
Family work               (22)        (22)                                          (21)
Local costs              (127)        (127)       127                              (127)
Importations from the     (57)        (58)         I          7          50        (52)
Naira zone
Other Importations        (81)        (81)         20         10         51        (77)
Costs for the project                 (185)   i              (185)
Total                     (287)       (473)        148      (168)        101       (278)
Net                        144        (41)       (212)      (168)        30         154
The savings and credit schemes, in spite of their inadequate resources, cover the poorest, providing them
with adequate means to develop some income-generating activities susceptible of helping them to come out
of the poverty circle. The project made it possible for 5,473 persons to receive some small loans
amounting to F.CFA 638,692,102 (from own funds).
-23-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 3-23, 1990             6   ECON, AG,                           S             S
HYDRO-GEOLOGIST
June 16-25 1990              5   ECON, IRRIGATION                    S             S
July-August 1993                                                     S             S
October 27 to                2   ECON                                S             S
November 12, 1993
Appraisal/Negotiation
Dec. 11- 13, 1994            1   ECON                                S             S
S             S
Supervision
June 17-23, 1996             2   ECON, AG                            S             S
Oct. 23-29 1996              2   ECON, AG                            S             S
March 24-29 1997             4   ECON, AG, PROC                      S             S
June 28- July. 1,            2   ECON, AG                            S             S
1997
Oct. 6-17, 1997              6   ECON, AG                            S             S
Feb.2-13, 1998               4   ECON, AG                            S             S
Jan. 6-15, 1999              3   ECON, AG                           HS             S
May 17-June 4                7   ECON, AG                           HS             S
1999
Janv. 31-Feb. 12,            6   ECON, AG., FIN.                    HS             S
2000
Janv. 15-26 2001             5   ECON, AG., FIN                     HS             S
HS             S
ICR
June 25-July 25              6    ECON. AG., FIN PROC               HS             S
2001
March 13-26 2002             2    AG.                               HS             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                            388
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 120
Supervision                                                           309
ICR                                                                    26
Total                                                                 842
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   OSU*M      O N   ONA
OI Sector Policies                      O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
Oi Physical                             O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
EL Financial                            OH    *SUOM      ON    ONA
3i Institutional Development            0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H   OSU * M    ON    O NA
Social
Li Poverty Reduction              * H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Oi Gender                         0 H-  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development            * H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H   0 SU 0 M   O N   * NA
L Other (Please specify)                0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS       OLU   OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS * S     O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Table 14: List of Supporting Documents
*     ANPIP 1998. Etude sur la protection juridique du foncier rurale et de son utilisation comme
e1lment de garantie bancaire. 43 pp plus annexes.
*     ANPIP 1999. Evaluation a mi-parcours du <<Projet pilote de promotion de l'irrigation priv6e >
*     ANPIP 2000. Diagnostic socio-economique de l'irrigation privee. 46 pp plus annexes.
*     ANPIP 2000. Statuts et reglement interieur. 31 pp.
*     ANPIP 2001. Rapport d'achevement du projet PPIP. 71 pp.
*     ANPIP Rapports annuels d'activites.
*     ANPIP. 1997. Contrat de consultation pour prestation des services passe entre ANPIP et MCPEC.
31 pp plus annexes.
*     La Banque mondiale 1994. Rapport d'evaluation . Projet pilote de promotion de l'irrigation priv6e
117 pp.
*     L'accord de credit de developpement du 24 Juillet 1995.
*     Le document de la strategie nationale d'irfigation et de la collecte des eaux de ruissellement Fevrier
2001.
*     Les diff6rents aide-memoires de missions de supervision de 1997 a 2002.
- 27 -






IMAGING
Report No.:   24288
Type: . CR



