Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13939-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
MARCH 30, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ I = CFAF 590 (as of November 30, 1994)
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric and Anglo-Saxon Systems
1" = 2.54 cm
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary ............                        ........................................i
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File .................................. vi
I. INTRODUCTION  ...................................................                  .1
II. THE  AGRICU            LTURAL  SECTOR ...................................................1
A. Background ...................................................I
B.  The Role of Agriculture in the Economy .............................................1
C. Experience with Past Lending  and Lessons Learned ............................2
D. Bank  Strategy in the Sector .................................................4
IIL.  THE  IRRIGATION  SUBSECTOR ................................................5
A. Background ...................................................5
B.  Subsector Issues Relevant to the Project ............................................            .       7
IV.  THE  PROJECT  AREA ....................................................                                          13
A. Physical Features ....................................................                                  13
B. Socioeconomic Features                                  .           .          ............................ 13
V. THE PROJECT .........                             ....................:                                             14
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement                                  .         .         ........................ 14
B. Project Objectives and Scope                                 .          .         ......................... 14
C. Summary Project Description .......                               ...................... 14
D.  Detailed Project Description .......................... ...   15
Private Irrigation Management Agency Component ...........                               ......... 15
Small-Scale Mechanized Irrigation Component ...............                          ............ 16
Improved Manual Irrigation Component ................................ ..... 16
Environmental Protection Component ......................................... 17
The Savings and Credit Schemes Component .............................. 17
Studies and Audit .............................................                                 18
E. Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule .............  18
F.  Cost Estimates .............................................                                           19
G.  Financing Plan                           .............................................  20
H.  Procurement and Use of Consultants ............................................. 21
I.  Disbursements ............................................. 23



VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................. 25
A. Organization and Management by the Private Executing Agency ... 25
B.  Reporting, Monitoring  and  Evaluation .............................................. 26
C.  Project Accounts, Audit and  Reporting ............................................. 29
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ..... 29
A.  Benefits ........................................................  29
B.  Risks .........................................................                                                    30
C.  Environmental Impact                                  ........................................................ 31
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                                          ........................................ 31
ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Institutional Setup  .............................................................. 34
Annex  2:  Project Organization  and  Management .......................................................... 36
Annex  3:  Project Cost Summary ..............................................................                                                 48
Annex  4:  Schedule  of Project Expenditures ..............................................................    51
Annex 5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                              ..................................... 53
Annex 6 Implementation Plan  .                                 .............................................................. 54
Annex  7   Supervision  Input into  Key  Activities .............................................................. 55
MAP:   IBRD 23395R - Project Areas



- i -
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Niger
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Ministry of Hydraulics and the Environment
Credit Amount:    SDR 4.6 million (US$6.8 million)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:       The Project is a pilot operation designed to:  test and evaluate local
capacity building through private sector development in the irrigation
sector; test and disseminate improved low-cost technologies for small-scale
private irrigation; and test procedures that will enable the public sector to
commission projects through delegated contract management. The Project
would finance: (a) the package of services to be provided directly by the
private irrigation association (ANPIP), which has already been established,
including:  (i) carrying out promotional campaigns in support of the
Government's private irrigation development strategy; (ii) facilitating small
farmers' access to the legal and administrative procedures for obtaining
tenurial security; (iii) providing assistance, upon demand, in preparation of
bankable irrigation projects and in establishing economic interest groups;
and (iv) overall project implementation, including procurement and
contract management, coordination of project activities and monitoring and
evaluation; and (b) the package of training and technical assistance services
which ANPIP will contract out to consulting firms, including: (i) testing
and evaluating small-scale mechanized and manual irrigation technologies;
(ii) promoting grassroots savings and credit schemes; and (iii) project-
related evaluation studies and the periodic audits. In addition, the project
would finance the goods and part of the operating costs for the monitoring
of the replenishable shallow aquifers and erosion control works, which
would be conducted by the Ministry of Hydraulics and the Environment.
Project
Implementation:   The distinguishing features of the project implementing Agency (ANPIP)
would be its private sector management style and the legal and
administrative flexibility to execute the project. The Agency will have a
private legal statute. The Government will entrust the Agency with the full
responsibility of executing the project without political or bureaucratic
interference.  The Agency's administrative, financial and accounting
procedures will be guided by a special operations manual (Manuel des
Procedures) to be agreed with IDA  before negotiations.  Although
independent from any Government interference, the Agency will



- ii -
periodically file activity reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock and will be audited externally every six months.
ANPIP will engage consultants' services to provide a package of technical
assistance and training services for the implementation of specific project
activities..
The Project would introduce a savings-first approach to rural financial
intermediation by promoting savings and loan schemes in the Project zones.
In addition, the Project would promote the creation of small voluntary
farmer groups (Groupements d'intMr6t economique), which would permit
joint voluntary liability for future borrowing. This group will also serve as
the front line of contact with extension.
Project
Benefits:           An economic rate of return has not been calculated due to the service and
institution-building nature of this operation. The project is an investment in
creating capacity for a self-sustaining process of technological
development, with a pay-off spreading over many years. However, while it
is difficult to be precise, broad-based and substantial increases in family
welfare are expected as a result of the proposed project. The technology
promotion program  would benefit at least 4000 smallholder families
through increased productivity and income. This direct benefit would
result from their adoption of motorized pumps which have been designed
to meet small farmer-requirements and-capabilities, by making tubewells
less expensive, more versatile and easier to install. The Project would also
have an added benefit of training artisans to manufacture and repair
irrigation equipment.
Another major direct benefit of the project would be its contributions to the
development of rural financial intermediation.   Over the four-year
implementation period, the project would establish about 60 savings and
credit associations at the grassroots level which would provide improved
access to financial services to their membership. The indirect benefits from
the cultivation of a savings and credit culture, along mutualist lines, would
contribute to significantly improved smallholder-access to financial
services, as the supported actions would ease the risk and high transaction
cost that have, until now, prevented commercial banks from lending to
potential rural clients.  Other intangible social benefits include the
establishment of a service-oriented private sector agency for irrigation
development, improvement in the social status of women and development
of associations/groups of producer enterprises oriented towards solving
common problems faced in their income-generating activities.
Overall, the innovations introduced under this project would provide
private economic agents in Niger's smallholder sector with the technical
and management know-how that is now critically lacking to significantly
increase the productivity of their resources and independent capabilities.



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:         N/A
Risks:             A major risk is that, over time, the Government may subject ANPIP, the
new association, to bureaucratic controls and pressures of political
patronage which could undermine the agency's autonomy and effectiveness.
The Government's willingness to use a non-governmental organization to
deliver publicly-funded services for promoting its private-led irrigation
development strategy can be expected to ensure the independence and
professionalism of this organization Regular joint Government-IDA review
of the performance of the agency will also serve to minimize the risk of
Government interference. The risk of political patronage will be alleviated
by other safeguards built into the project, including: (a) clearly spelled out
and enforceable performance criteria for ANPIP; and (b) IDA's prior
review and approval of ANPIP's annual work program; and beneficiaries
will be organized into solidarity groups which can deny entry to those
outside the target group who may attempt to improperly access project
resources. As is true for most new and inexperienced institutions, a
managerial risk may exist with respect to ANPIP, including the potential
for misuse of public funds. This risk will be minimized through personnel
training, adequate internal regulation and monitoring systems and strict
enforcement of the Agency's operational guidelines (ANPIP's Manual of
Procedures).  Another risk is the Government's inability to provide
counterpart  contributions  for  financing  of incremental  operating
expenditures, especially in light of past underfunding of operations and
maintenance in the sector. This risk will be minimized by reliance on
private sector institutions for project implementation, and by requiring the
Government to make up-front and, subsequently, annual deposits into an
account for payment of its counterpart contributions. Finally, Government
interference through restrictive legislation or unnecessary controls are
likely to stifle grassroots initiatives in financial intermediation. Such a risk
would be minimized by requiring the Government to provide an
appropriate legal framework for grassroots savings and loan associations,
as well as a clear regulatory framework for the GIEs, which would ensure
accountability and transparency.
Poverty Category:  The great majority of Niger's poor and, hence potentially food insecure, are
concentrated in the rural areas. The actions financed under this project
would strengthen the capacity of smallholder farmers to expand irrigated
production of food crops. This will enhance the food security of the rural
poor through increases in their food supply. The support to small-scale
rural microenterprises and the actions designed to facilitate small-farmer
access to financial services and to obtain tenurial security would also
improve the distribution of income and alleviate rural poverty.  The
project's strategic focus on smallholder intensification of production, using
low-cost, low-risk and simple techniques will permit efficient and



- iv -
sustainable use of the scarce water and land resources. This would have a
positive impact on the environment.
Maps:              IBRD 23395R - Project Areas.



- v -
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN i
------------------------ (US$ million) ------------------------
Estimated Costs                                                TOTAL AS %
LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL            OF BASE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _C O ST S
1. Private Project Mgmt Association       1.08        0.91       1.99         31
(ANPIP)
2. Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation      0.38        1.44       1.82          28
3. Improved Manual Irrigation             0.38        0.39       0.77          12
4. Environmental Protection               0.10        0.22       0.32           5
5. Savings & Credit Schemes               0.47        0.41       0.89          14
6. PPF Refinancing                        0.18        0.52       0.70          11
7. Total Base Costs                       2.59        3.90       6.49         100
Physical Contingencies            0.15        0.30        0.45          7
Price Contingencies               0.41        0.13        0.54          8
Total Project Costs                       3.15        4.33       7.48         115
a/ Total may not add up due to rounding.
FINANCING PLAN BY SOURCE
----------(US$ mnillion) ---------
Local           Foreign             Total
Government                    0.7               0.0               0.7
IDA                           2.5               4.3               6.8
TOTAL                         3.2               4.3               7.5
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS !y
---------------------------- (US$ million) ---------------------------
FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99   FY2000
Annual           1.5         1.4         1.9         1.1         0.4         0.3
Cumulative       1.5        2.9         4.8          5.9         6.5         6.8
k/ The projections deviate from the standard profile for agricultural projects in Niger (i.e., they
are based on the Profile for Sectoral Adjustment Loans) because: (a) as a pilot capacity-
building project, a large part of the disbursements, especially for the Goods category, would
take place in the early phase of the Project; and (b) because the Agency, due to its private
status, is expected to manage disbursement operations expeditiously without being subject to
countless bureaucratic procedures.



- vi -
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
1.  Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
2.  Detailed cost tables.
3. Termes de reference pour I 'audit des comptes et de gestion du projet.
4.  Liste des membresfondateurs de / 'ANPIP (le Conseil d'Administration
d'ANPIP).
5.  Statuts.
6. Reglement interieur.
7. Projet de contrat de recrutement du directeur d'ANPIP.
8. Projet de contrat de recrutement du personnel d 'ANPIP.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The Government of Niger has requested IDA's assistance in financing a project
designed to help implement its smallholder-focused private sector irrigation development strategy
aimed at achieving sustainable agricultural growth, higher levels of income growth, and poverty
alleviation. The Government has already implemented significant reform measures intended to
establish a favorable environment for promoting private sector activities in the economy
(para. 2.9). The proposed project would assist Niger in promoting the above-mentioned strategy
by helping private economic agents in the smallholder irrigation sector overcome the constraints
on full exploitation of their potential, notably, inefficient irrigation techniques, limited information
on and access to commercial markets for products and factors of production, lack of access to
financial services, and lack of access to basic technical and farmn management skills. The project
would provide support for specialized assistance and training to help build the technical and
institutional capacity necessary to overcome these constraints and would emphasize greater
private investments in farmer-owned and operated small-scale irrigation development through
support for promotional work, studies, and price and market information systems.
1.2         The proposed project would be a pilot capacity-building operation in the private
irrigation sector. It is based on extensive preparation work by a Technical Working Group set up
by the Government and an FAO/CP team and developed through dialogue with senior
administration officials, private farmers, businessmen and Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs).
H. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
2.1         Three quarters of Niger's vast territory of 1.3 million km2 is desert. Of the total
cultivable area of 15 million ha, only about 3.8 rnillion ha are cropped every year, mostly in the
Southern part of the country. Another 9 million ha are maintained in rotational fallows and
pastures. Even in the cultivable areas, highly variable and declining rainfall (only 11 percent of the
country receives more than 350 mm of rainfall) plus frequent drought cycles make rainfed
agriculture an extremely risky enterprise.  The irrigation potential (officially estimated at
270,000 ha - see para. 3.1), though limited in comparison with that of other Sahelian countries,
offers opportunities for irrigation development to supplement rainfall with water pumped from the
Niger River and from the country's substantial shallow groundwater resources (para. 3.1).
B. The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
2.2         Agriculture in Niger contributes about 40 percent of GDP, 85 percent of
employment, 16 percent of total export earnings and 100 percent of non-uranium export receipts.
With the projected continuing decline of the uranium sector, agriculture will become a major
source of foreign exchange in the foreseeable future. The internal and external adjustment
measures taken since the realignment of its currency early in 1994 will substantially enhance



- 2 -
Niger's external competitiveness as well as create the conditions for sustained economic growth
and poverty alleviation. The leading activities in the sector are the production of cereals (millet,
sorghum, rice and maize) for domestic consumption and the production of cowpeas for export,
followed closely by nomadic cattle-raising for both domestic consumption and export. Nigeria is
the principal market for both export products. The crop subsector accounts for about 54.4
percent of agricultural GDP, while the livestock subsector accounts for 35 percent.
2.3          Nigerien agriculture is drought-prone and subject to uncertain and irregular
rainfall. This makes the use of costly inputs (fertilizer, animal power technology) and increased
labor inputs extremely hazardous, and severely limits the scope for increasing productivity in
rainfed agriculture. The performance of the agricultural sector during the past two decades has
been greatly influenced by rainfall variability as well as the lack of adaptable and profitable
technological packages that would permit the farmer to move out of the present rainfed
production systems into a more intensive type of agriculture. During much of this period,
production of cereals, notably millet and sorghum, which are the main coarse grains and principal
source of calories, was highly variable, and cereal yields have tended to decline due to the high
correlation between coarse grain production and the rainfall level. Simnilarly, low cowpea yields,
averaging about 200 kg per hectare since the early 1980s may be explained largely by the rainfall
factor. However, cowpea supplies have been increasing during the last decade, due mainly to
expansion of the cultivated area. Estimates of annual cowpea production vary from 250,000 to
400,000 metric tons, about 90 percent of which is exported to Nigeria. The second leading
export crop, onions, has been less affected by rainfall, because it is grown as an off-season crop
under smallholder irrigation techniques. Onion yields have increased substantially from 20 metric
tons per hectare in the mid-1980s to more than 30 metric tons per hectare by the beginning of the
1990s. This increase in productivity came from adoption of simple and low-cost irrigation
techniques and increased use of chemical fertilizers. The prospects for increasing exports of
Nigerien onions to the West African markets appear to be excellent. Further improvements in
storage infrastructure and quality control will enhance the competitiveness of this export crop.
2.4          The droughts have adversely affected the livestock sector as well, especially the
cattle population, which dropped from 3.5 million heads in 1983 to 1.4 million heads in 1986.
The small ruminants population (mainly sheep, goats, camels, horses and donkeys) was about 10.5
million in 1994. According to official estimates, the numbers of livestock which could be
available for export, while maintaining a stable livestock herd, are:  100,000 heads of cattle,
225,000 sheep, 400,000 goats and 15,000 camels per annum. Full exploitation of the growth
potential of the livestock subsector would require appropriate measures to:  improve the
institutional and regulatory environment; pass legislation on the Rural Code on tenurial security;
improve sanitary conditions of livestock and encourage the development of a modern private
sector in the processing and marketing of animal products.
C. Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned
2.5          The Bank has so far financed two irrigation projects (Namarigoungou and
Irrigation Rehabilitation); two projects in rainfed agriculture (Dosso and Maradi II); two in
forestry (Forestry I and II), one in Livestock, the Small Rural Operations Project and the
Agricultural Research Project and the Agricultural Services Project.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - - -  -_-



- 3 -
2.6         In the irrigation subsector, the performance of the completed Namarigoungou
Project (Cr. 851 -NIR) was less than satisfactory in terms of economic profitability (ex-post ERR
of only 3 percent) but good with respect to institution-building objectives.  The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR), on the one hand, stressed the low economic rate of return
inherent in the comparatively large scale high unit area cost approach adopted under the project,
thereby leading both the Government and IDA to shift irrigation strategy in favor of smaller, more
simply designed schemes in the most favorable areas where unit area development costs are less.
On the other hand, the report highlighted the project's success in institution building, including:
(a) the creation of ONAHA (para. 3.7) as a public irrigation agency; (b) the introduction of
improved agricultural technologies; (c) the establishment of two cooperatives that function
satisfactorily; and (d) about 100 percent recovery of O&M costs and agricultural credit through
project cooperatives (but not recovery of capital costs on the irrigation system). The experience
in implementing the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1618-NIR), which closed on December
31, 1991, is satisfactory with regard to economic profitability and efficiency of crop production,
with 200 percent cropping intensity and high paddy yields (about 5 tons/ha). But the experience
has also demonstrated: (a) that state-controlled cooperative organizations are prone to political
and bureaucratic meddling, and hence unsustainable; and (b) public irrigation agencies face serious
financial viability problems stemming mainly from the inability of the Government to fund the non-
commercial services that these agencies perform on its behalf (such as planning, general studies,
and extension and applied research exacerbated by inefficient management). Major lessons have
been drawn from these two projects for the design of the proposed private irrigation project.
2.7          In rainfed agriculture, both Dosso (Cr. 967-NIR) and Maradi II (Cr. 1026-NIR)
Projects experienced implementation problems and failed to increase crop production as
expected, mainly because of inadequate technical packages. The Livestock Project (Cr. 885-NIR)
was aimed at establishing a participative approach to management of animal, water and pasture
resources.  The Forestry II Project (Cr. 1226-NIR) was reoriented to concentrate on the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the plantation already in place and on pilot rural resource
management schemes. The major lessons learned from these four completed projects are that:
(a) due to the heterogeneous soils and localized rainfall patterns, a single technical package is not
widely applicable; (b) areas with good production potential exist but are quite localized and of
limited size; (c) to avoid further deterioration of natural resources, it is necessary to establish
more integrated mixed farming systems; (d) participation of the rural population in decision
making, execution and maintenance is crucial, and self-help endeavors and decentralization should
be encouraged; (e) services and advice provided to farmers by the public administration have to be
upgraded; and (f) it is necessary to allow for sufficient time to reach and sustain project
performance during implementation.
2.8          The ongoing Small Rural Operations Project (Cr. 1890-NIR) provides support to
Government's decentralization policy through reinforcement of capacity of field level technical
services in project preparation, execution, and evaluation and by facilitating the active
participation of beneficiary groups and non-governmental actors in every aspect of small rural
operations, and investments, such as bottom land improvements, small irrigated perimeters, soil
conservation and watershed management and social forestry, including village tree nurseries. The
lessons learned after three years of implementation experience are that: (a) it is possible to
decentralize financial operations to the local level, provided there is an adequate project
accounting and monitoring system in place; (b) there is greater accountability of public officials



- 4 -
(field-level implementing agents) in projects which require financial participation of beneficiaries
than those that do not; and (c) sustainability and security of investments in collective production
activities cannot be guaranteed without incontestable tenurial security over cultivated land.
2.9          The actions taken by the Government to liberalize the economic system, with Bank
support under the First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-I) and the Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Program (PESAP), helped to encourage the emergence of private sector initiatives in
the agricultural sector, including agricultural support industries. The changes introduced under
these two operations have resulted in:  (a) liberalization of cereal marketing and prices;
(b) elimination of set prices for groundnuts and cowpeas; (c) setting of paddy and cotton
producer prices according to the opportunity cost criteria (border prices); (d) replacement of
compulsory domestic purchases by rice importers by a protective tariff on imported rice; and
(e) commitment to promoting grassroots initiatives in rural credit. These policy measures have
been substantially reinforced by the Government's recent action to realign the real exchange rate
of its currency, which, ceteris paribus, should significantly improve the incentive structure for
resource allocation decisions in the trade sector and enhance the external competitiveness of
Nigerien agriculture.
D. Bank Strategy in the Sector
2.10         Niger's principal objective in its development strategy is to achieve sustainable per
capita income growth with equity. IDA's strategy in support of the above objective is based on
four major building blocks: (a) building private and public sector institutions to promote private
sector-led growth; (b) increasing efficiency of public resource management, (c) addressing long-
term human capital and natural resources issues, and (d) supporting actions to stimulate supply
response. With the support of IDA, the Nigerien Government launched (a) the Small Rural
Operations Project (Cr. 1890-NIR) in 1988 to enhance rural incomes and food security through
increased off-season crop production as well as to promote rural beneficiaries' participation in the
financing and management of small rural operations; (b) the Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 2122-NIR) in 1991, which aims at strengthening adaptive research capacity and making
research more responsive to farmers' needs and constraints; (c) the Agricultural Services Project
(Cr. 2355-NIR), whose objectives are to develop an institutional framework at the national level
for better defining strategies and programs for extension staff and for channeling a two-way flow
of information between farmers and researchers and ensuring that research is geared to farmers'
needs; (d) the first phase of a Natural Resources Management program currently under
preparation, whose objectives are to halt and reverse the process of natural resource degradation
in order to ensure sustainable agricultural growth; and (e) the Food Security Study which will lead
to the identification and preparation of a project to improve food and nutrition security in Niger.
2.11         The proposed private irrigation project is complementary with the sectoral strategy
in that it will support actions that will facilitate attainment of the objectives of increased
agricultural output, growth in incomes and reduction of poverty in a mutually supportive way
with the above projects. It will contribute to building private and public sector capacity in
promoting private sector-led growth and support actions to stimulate supply response. The
project's focus on simple, low-cost and low-risk techniques of intensification of agricultural
production on small-scale private irrigation farms will have the complementary advantage of
providing feedback to both extension and research on the development of appropriate extension



- 5 -
messages for producers of off-season crops. The strategy supported by the project to promote
the growth of food crops production is based on increasing productivity, using existing proven
low-cost technologies and cultivation practices to ensure sustainable use of the water and land
resources. Sustainability has important implications for resource management, in particular, water
conservation, the maintenance of soil fertility and soil physical characteristics. The focus of the
project's technology promotion activities would be in the most agroecologically suitable areas.
These actions would provide useful lessons for the Natural Resources Management Project
currently under preparation. Furthermore, the focus of the strategy would be on smallholder
production, as this is readily adapted to localized changes in agroecological conditions, reduces
land tenure difficulties, is compatible with food crop farming and is suited to the local
management capabilities. Also under the project, voluntary groupings (Groupements d'Interet
Economique) would be established to serve as the front line of contact with extension, as active
members of the grassroots savings and loan associations to be created, and, ultimately, to provide
collective guarantees for credit to its members. Successful implementation of the project will
depend on parallel actions to improve delivery of research and extension services. It would also
depend on mutually reinforcing actions to improve input supplies, credit, marketing arrangements
and farmers' and non-governmental organizations - all of which would be supported through the
project.
m. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Background
3.1          Niger has a gross potential for irrigation of 270,000 ha' of which approximately
140,000 ha lie in the Niger Valley and 60,000 ha in the Maradi and Zinder agricultural zones. The
remainder is spread across the valleys of the dallols and along the South-Eastern and South-
Western parts of the country (see Map IBRD 23395R). The groundwater resource potential for
irrigation is considerable. Surface water resources come mainly from the Niger River and a
network of seasonal rivers that change their course frequently and inundate nearby land and
numerous permanent and semi-permanent swamps.
3.2          Niger's large irrigation potential is far from being fully utilized. Despite the
remarkable expansion of non-governmental irrigation schemes for dry-season cropping during the
1980s, easily exploitable water resources still abound along the Niger river and in the Dosso-Gaya
Dallols, the Maradi Goulbis or the Zinder Koramas (see Map IBRD 23395R) where ample
renewable shallow aquifers remain largely untapped. Of the total irrigable area, only about
70,000 ha or 22 percent are presently fully or partially irrigated. These are of three kinds:
(a)    publicly-funded medium- to large-scale (100 to 1,500 ha each), full-water control
schemes totaling 12,000 ha, distributed among smallholders organized into
government-established cooperatives responsible for operation and maintenance
and input supply services; these schemes have good prospects for reasonable
financial returns because of the systematic practice of double cropping and high
1/ Estimated potential takes into account areas irrigated by water regulated by the Kandaji dam for which a feasibility study
is underway.



- 6 -
crop yields but still have low economic returns because of the very high investment
costs;
(b)   small-scale full- to partial-water control schemes totaling 46,000 ha initiated either
collectively by the village farmers with assistance from NGOs or the local
authorities through various small rural operations projects or by the private sector
(individuals or small voluntary groups) with no external financial or technical help;
the village perimeters are 20 to 30 ha subdivided among smallholders; they have
good prospects for financial and economic profitability but suffer from inadequate
functioning of the village farmer cooperatives that are established in each
perimeter; the private schemes are usually at a scale of a few ares, with manual or
"shaduf' lifting (para. 4.10) of water from rivers, depressions or shallow aquifers;
but there are instances of schemes of a few hectares located around the major
cities, irrigated with mechanical pumping from various surface or groundwater
sources; these have good financial and economic returns and are increasing; and
(c)   traditional schemes totaling 12,000 ha and located in areas benefiting from non
regulated river floods of wide range of volume and duration; these are more
important for fodder and forestry regeneration and fishing activities than for
farming.
3.3          The main crops produced on the large scale public schemes are rice and cotton
while the privately-owned and managed schemes produce a high diversity of crops, including rice,
wheat, cowpeas, fruits, onions, off-season garden vegetables and tubers (root crops).
3.4          In the public schemes, technical performance has been impressive since the
beginning of the eighties. Rice production output increased significantly, averaging about 70
percent of the national total from 1981-1988, and accounting for an average of 80 percent
thereafter. This phenomenal increase in rice output was due primarily to increases in productivity.
Rice cropping intensity reaches 200 percent, and yields increased considerably, now averaging
about 5 tons/ha per season in all the perimeters along the Niger Valley. The capital investment
costs estimated at between US$13,000-20,000/ha make them, however, extremely costly and
economically non-viable. They continue to be plagued by weak institutional support, poor
marketing arrangements, and the lack of cost recovery measures to finance operations and
maintenance.
3.5         In the private micro-irrigation schemes, area expands when there is ample water
(normal rainy season). In years of low water flow, however, the area under cultivation tends to
contract, yields decline and the opportunity for using modern techniques is limited. Thus,
production mostly of off-season products, had been unstable, varying from a high of 138,000 tons
in 1984 to a low of 84,000 tons in 1987 with much of the increase accounted for by the micro-
irrigation schemes. With the recent devaluation of the domestic currency and the expected
resulting improved competitiveness of the trade sector, there is great potential to increase their
contributions to food security and to income growth, especially in light of the considerable export
market opportunities in the rapidly expanding markets in neighboring Nigeria. However, it is
critical that these traditional irrigation systems be improved and modernized (using low-cost and
technically simple irrigation motorized and manual technology), in order to achieve greater



- 7 -
economy and water-use efficiency, and hence higher levels of sustainable production.  The
proposed project aims at introducing such technologies and create both institutional and financial
capacity for their adoption in future on-farm investments by small private irrigation farmers,
contributing to achieving this objective.
B. Subsector Issues Relevant to the Project
Government Institutions and Farmer Organizations
3.6          Agricultural sector activities fall under the responsibility of two governmental
ministries, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the Ministry of Hydraulics and
the Environment. The boundaries of intervention between these institutions are often unclear and
inter-agency coordination at the central level is unsystematic. Each ministry has decentralized its
services to both the regional and district levels with greater focus on the latter. The district
technical services, which generally tend to work within a multidisciplinary team, provide support
in four functional areas, viz, agriculture, livestock, environment and rural engineering.
Agriculture and rural engineering are the most active services in the subsector. The former
provides extension support based on the T&V method and advises farmers on fertilizers,
improved seeds and other agricultural inputs.  The latter undertakes hydraulics studies and
inventories of water resources and supervises well construction works that are usually contracted
out to NGOs and other private operators. The most immediate constraints that hinder the
operational effectiveness of technical services are:  (a) lack of transport, especially for field
agents; (b) inadequate and generally unskilled technical staff, (c) excessive mobility of staff,
(d) low motivation of personnel; and (e) insufficient funding for operating expenses.
3.7          The  public  irrigation  agency, the  Office  National des Amenagements
Hvdroagricoles (ONAHA) provides technical support to the service cooperatives in the public
irrigation perimeters. ONAHA has benefited from substantial technical assistance support from
various sources and financial support from the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. However, its
principal mission is to provide services of a public good nature, without adequate funding from
the state. As a public agency, ONAHA has no say on matters related to the quantity and quality
of its staff nor is it subject to strict accountability. More importantly, it has no incentives to
improve efficiency in comparison with a private agency.  Similarly, the state-controlled
cooperatives are unable to gain full control over their collective resources or manage and profit
from their enterprises in a sustainable manner due to state intervention and political interference in
cooperative affairs. The success of a private sector-led irrigation development strategy hinges on
maintaining a supportive policy environment for autonomous private management structures and
voluntary farmer groups to replace the existing parastatal entities and state-controlled
cooperatives. These issues have been addressed in the design of the proposed project (paras. 5.1
and 5.2).
3.8          There have been virtually no autonomous local organizations in the rural sector.
The irrigation cooperatives in the ONAHA schemes, or the indigenous grassroots associations,
such as the Samaria and village cooperatives, are at best, quasi-governmental creations
incorporated into a centralized hierarchical organization.  The Government is, however,
committed  to  decentralizing  decision-making  authority  and  to  opening  up  community



-8-
development to private sector intervention and to transfer administrative and financial autonomy
to rural organizations.
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
3.9          Historically, NGOs have played a lesser role in Niger's rural sector than most
neighboring countries due primarily to the Government's centrist and highly interventionist
orientation. The Government recognizes 86 NGOs, of which some 50 percent are non-resident.
Only 6 of this total are national NGOs. In contrast, there are 184 NGOs in Mali of which 122 are
local; 142 officially recognized NGOs in Burkina Faso and about 120 NGOs in Senegal. Since
1988, policy changes in Niger have opened the way for greater NGO autonomy. These changes
include: (a) permission for national NGOs to operate legally, with effect from 1988; (b) approval
of NGO-supported micro-irrigation projects and other small rural operations at the regional or
district level without prior approval from the center (with effect from 1989); and (c) permission
for regional and district authorities (prefets and sous-prefets) to approve all micro-projects which
do not require contribution from the Government or donors (effective since 1990).
3.10         Current NGO-involvement in the subsector is primarily on rural works (well-
digging), with much of the contracts going to a handful of resident NGOs, including OFEDES,
the Lutheran World Relief (LWR), Africare and the Brigade Hvdraulique de Mavahi (water
engineering brigade).  Special effort is needed to expand NGO  and other private sector
involvement, such as in private equipment services and environmental protection in order to
ensure higher efficiency and profitability of investing in private irrigation development. The
proposed project would, as much as possible, use qualified NGOs in execution of certain project
activities.
Private Holders
3.11         Small Private Holders2. The experience in Niger demonstrates the responsiveness
of small private farmers to market incentives and production parameters for farming in general.
For instance, the growth of cowpeas production as a replacement cash crop to groundnuts since
the end of the seventies was exclusively a private sector initiative. As groundnuts faded, owing to
the combination of poor incentives and rainfall, farmers and traders saw a profitable opportunity
in cowpeas and took advantage of it. In 1982, for instance, cowpeas production was estimated at
about 282,000 tons whereas that of groundnuts was only 87,000 tons. This massive shift into
cowpeas production appears to be permanent as groundnut output remains constant at below
100,000 tons (at times at less than 50,000 tons) while cowpeas production oscillates between
300,000 - 400,000 tons since the late eighties. The second experience is with the widespread
practice of off-season irrigation farrning. Following the devastating droughts of 1984, the
Government encouraged farmers to exploit bottomlands by irrigation from groundwater to grow
food for domestic consumption. They responded with a record harvest of 138,000 tons (cereals
equivalent) of dry-season irrigated crops the following year (1984-85).
3.12         The small private farmer does not belong to any formal farmer organization except
the village cooperative. Irrigation is generally practiced on micro-plots of a few ares per farm unit
2/  This term refers to smallholder farmers who finance, construct and manage their own irrigation schemes.



- 9 -
(4-6 members is typical) in collectively irrigated perimeters or on an individually irrigated plot.
Relying on inefficient and outmoded irrigation techniques, the farmer cultivates mainly off-season
vegetables as major source of revenues, and on a limited scale, tobacco and sugar cane. Technical
support to this group is both irregular and inadequate, and training in functional literacy and
management is virtually non-existent. Lack of access to a reliable source of credit is also an
important limitation on the ability of the traditional private small farmer to adopt improved
techniques. Their productive potential can be put into even more efficient use by providing
support in: (a) training; (b) systematic extension support to adopt modem inputs and to maintain a
viable mix of high-value crops; (c) access to unsubsidized credit and services for mobilization of
savings; and (d) market and price information dissemination systems. The proposed project
would, on a pilot basis, help provide these services.
3.13         Private Commercial Farmers. This group consists mostly of traders, civil servants
and village notables. The average size of their irrigated plots varies from 3 ha to 20 ha or more.
They invest in mechanical equipment to irrigate from surface water along the Niger River or
groundwater, and recruit wage-labor on their perimeters. Crop production is diverse, including
vegetables, fruits, fodder, groundnuts, cowpeas, sugar cane and cereals. This group cannot be
quantified with any precision, but their farms are concentrated near big cities, the Niger Valley
(Niamey), and in the regions of Maradi and Zinder.
3.14         Rural Women.  The role of women in the smallholder sector and their
socioeconomic impact in Niger have traditionally been under-reported or under-valued and,
hence, are not well-understood, although there is a strong association between rural poverty and
women's role in agricultural production, post-harvest and other income-generating activities. It is
also recognized that they carry out these activities in addition to their traditional family welfare
role. In agriculture, women actively participate in virtually every activity of the family farms,
including land preparation, sowing or planting, weeding and harvesting. Their post-harvest
activities include the shelling of grains, storage, processing and marketing. Evidence from the
Maradi region, for instance, suggests that women are now earning an increasing proportion of the
family income and, in many cases, are the principal breadwinners. Women also play a dominant
role in rainfed food crop production. In terms of access to credit, women clients have built a
reputation of being creditworthy and prompt in repayment of loans. They represent more than 60
percent of the clients currently served by CARE's ongoing credit operations in the Maradi region
and are the principal focus of this NGO's recent initiatives in grassroots savings mobilization in
Tahoua and Maradi regions.
3.15         Tradition-bound cultural biases, however, continue to prevent women from fully
exploiting prevailing income-generating opportunities in the smallholder sector. To begin with,
women have been excluded from permanent access to land, primarily because customary land
tenure practices deny women legal rights on land. Consequently, women are often unable to offer
any security or collateral to obtain a loan to finance investment activities. Second, technical
training and extension support tend to be directed almost exclusively to men. Third, seclusion,
whereby a woman's activity is limited to the confines of the house- commonly practiced in Hausa
society-- inhibits meaningful development of women's potential, and in certain cases, tend to
undermine efforts to promote group formation and to deliver extension messages due to
resistance from male spouses.



- 10 -
3.16         Unless these constraints are removed, the effectiveness of development actions is
likely to be limited, as a large segment of potential beneficiaries would find it difficult to exploit
the opportunities offered by the development process. The Government is taking action to remove
all forms of discrimination based on gender, particularly with respect to land resource rights and
tenurial security, in order to enhance women's contributions to the objectives of sustained growth
in smallholder production, increased incomes of rural families and poverty reduction. In addition
to an improved legal framework, special effort needs to be directed to identifying actions designed
to accommodate rural women's needs and develop their economic potential. Special effort will be
made to include women beneficiaries in this project.
3.17         Rural Microenterprises.  In Niger, microenterprises are defined as small-scale
income generating units employing between four and six people, usually on part-time basis. They
include most household businesses and agroprocessing industries. Such enterprises represent an
important alternative to wage employment in the rural sector. While it is difficult to be precise
about the scope and volume of microenterprise operations, the available information suggests that
a large number of the rural population earn income working in self-employment or small business
activities often as a supplement to agricultural wage labor. Most of the microenterprises are
largely non-farm enterprises, operating mainly in the informal sector. They provide agriculture-
related commercial services, including inputs and equipment supplies, land preparation,
agroprocessing, equipment repair and maintenance, primary marketing, including storage, and
marketing of transformed products. While some of the employment created by these enterprises
is often low-paying, part-time and provides only supplemental household income, they have
considerable yet-to-be tapped potential to contribute significantly to family income on a
sustainable basis. To realize this potential, however, it is important to overcome the constraints
on entrepreneurship development and prepare the entrepreneur to better respond to new
opportunities. Access to markets and credit rank high in the obstacles that need to be overcome.
Aspiring entrepreneurs with neither a track record nor assets to pledge find it difficult to come up
with guarantors or collateral required by commercial banks. They lack knowledge or expertise to
penetrate outside markets and lack an organizational base from which to demand services and
engage in bulk purchasing or selling.
3.18         Consistent with its private sector-led development strategy, the Government is
committed to assisting small rural private entrepreneurs with the objective of enhancing their
contributions to greater efficiency in agricultural production, processing and marketing. In
support of this strategy, the proposed project will finance workshops on how to overcome the
obstacles in the management capabilities of the small entrepreneur in the irrigation subsector as
background material for the preparation of the second phase of this project.
Land Issues
3.19         The process of clarification of land resource rights, involves judgments regarding
not only who has what rights, but also which authority shall prevail and what rules shall govern
new and unanticipated issues which might arise. The Government's ongoing work on a Rural
Code development will clarify the authority framework in which land resource conflicts are
resolved, which will in turn have a major influence on the system of incentives within which long-
term investments in irrigation and rural economic activity takes place. One element of the Cod
Rural that is of immediate interest to smallholder production is the task of formalizing customary



- 11 -
rights in the modem legal system such that traditional rights which were decided by local
authority under customary law will be converted into secure, legal title. This involves land
registration based on declaration of property rights substantiated by local authority, and local
consensus on the size and location of the property. The Code Rural is in the process of being
translated into appropriate enabling legislation. Assistance on land titling, including review of
documentation and processing services would be provided to the beneficiaries of this project. The
Project will finance the services of a legal consultant to review the existing legal and regulatory
framework of land tenure, and subsequently to design a User's Guide on how to obtain tenurial
security and/or usufruct rights (para. 5.10). The overall framework for addressing land issues is
being developed under the Natural Resources Management Project presently under preparation.
Rural Financial Intermediation
3.20         Prior to the banking sector reforms of the late 1980s, state-owned banks had
dominated banking, viz, the Nigerien Development Bank (BDRN) and the Agricultural Credit
Bank (CNCA). These institutions collapsed due largely to accumulation of significant amounts of
non-performing loans. The formal financial sector comprises also three main private commercial
banks namely, the Societe Nigerienne de Banque (SONIBANK), the Banque Internationale de
l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO) and the Nigeria International Bank (NIB) which is an affiliate of
CITICORP. Two other banks, namely, the Islamic Bank and the Lebanese-Nigerien Export Bank
(BALINEX) operate as specialized banks. The non-bank system consists of a state-owned social
insurance institution (the Caisse Nationale de S&urite Sociale), the bankrupt housing finance
institution (the Credit du Niger), a national post office savings scheme, a few private insurance
companies, mutual funds and pension funds.
3.21         The importance of informal finance is widely recognized in Niger and the
Government realizes that lack of savings and credit schemes at the grassroots level hampers the
creation of a potential for intensification and diversification of production in high-potential areas.
Current Government strategy aims at improving the efficiency of informal intermediation in rural
areas by encouraging better use of private sector initiatives in rural financial services. The focus of
this new policy will be on the development of grassroots savings and credit groups along
mutualist lines.
3.22         Private commercial banking practices appear inappropriate to the rural clients,
since most smallholder farmers are without the required collateral, may not have credit records or
history and financial information in the form expected by traditional banks. Commercial banks
perceive lending to the smallholder sector to be inherently risky and costly.
3.23         Following a Bank review on rural finance in Niger in June 1992, it was concluded
that: (a) Niger enjoys a robust tradition of mutual help, which still exists in the form of traditional
rotating savings and credit associations; (b) these associations, if properly organized and
managed, have a potential for reducing the risks and costs of smallholder-lending, as well as the
potential for mobilizing savings, particularly in high potential areas, where investment activity
readily generates excess liquidity, and (c) future strategy in rural finance should focus on creating
farner-owned, savings-based institutions, along mutualist lines and where credit is provided
strictly in accordance with the collective guarantee principle. Several NGOs have worked in rural
finance, testing new approaches. Two of these agencies, namely, CARE-International (Care-



- 12 -
Niger) and the World Council of Credit Unions (WOCCU), have been working in Niger for about
five years. The former's experience has been based on a credit-only approach, with credit
resources coming from external sources, notably, USAID, and sustainability ensured by expanding
clientele, diversifying loans and charging sufficient interest rates to cover the costs of providing
the credit. The WOCCU emphasizes promoting savings mobilization as a prerequisite to credit.
Member savings in the WOCCU system are deposited in a private commercial bank and
withdrawals are made for on-lending, whenever there is need to do so. Such direct links between
the formal and informal financial sector need to be reinforced to enhance rural financial
intermediation.
3.24         WOCCU Credit Development Project.  The objective of the USAID-financed
Credit Union Development Project is to increase access to credit by the rural and urban
population through the creation of a network of savings-based sustainable financial services
institutions (credit unions). The project executing agency is WOCCU, whose activities, in
addition to coordinating the project operations, include the following: (a) creation of additional
sound credit unions and expansion of existing ones; and (b) education and training of credit union
members, managers and elected members in skills related to credit union operations and operating
principles, functional literacy, basic bookkeeping, accounting and auditing and other relevant
skills. Launched in September 1989 in the Zinder region, it was subsequently expanded to the
Maradi and Niamey regions. By September 1993, sixteen credit unions had been created, of
which three are exclusively for women. The total membership amounts to about 1,500, of which
about 260 are women. Member deposits were increasing regularly and more than doubled from
about CFAF 5.5 million in 1992 to CFAF 12.3 million in 1993. Lending is generally for small
investments at an average interest rate of 24 percent.
3.25         Care-Maradi Microenterprise Development Proiect. In contrast to the savings-first
approach in the WOCCU project described above, CARE International's activities in rural finance
are based on a credit-only approach. Nevertheless, the credit system that it has established under
the microenterprise project in the Maradi region is perhaps the most successful private sector
initiative in the non-bank system, with an average credit recovery rate of 98 percent since it began
this operation in 1988. This impressive collection performance may be attributed to safeguards
which improve the overall culture concerning cost recovery and credit discipline, such as rigorous
credit screening and increasing use of group-based lending and the associated peer-support
systems to encourage timely repayments and to recover arrears. Overall, the program has
disbursed a total of US$1.25 million equivalent to about 4,400 clients (in 365 groups) from July
1988 to December 1991. Women represent about 53 percent of the sub-borrowers (4-year
average) and 65 percent of clients who were granted loans during the past seven months.
3.26         Although there is no formal law pertaining to rural savings and credit institutions,
the Government of Niger has adopted a transitional legislative law in the form of an
Administrative Decree, which provides for the legal recognition of savings and credit
cooperatives. In addition, the Government has established a registrar within the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, whose principal mission is to charter savings and credit cooperatives. In
order to provide adequate protection for such grassroots-level initiatives in rural finance, the
Government should enact a definitive credit union law which would correspond to the
international norms and standards of credit union law.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
Location and Climate
4.1          The geographic coverage of the project would be limited to the Departments of
Tillaberi, Dosso, Maradi and Zinder (see Map IBRD  23395R).  Project activities will be
concentrated in four zones carefully selected during project preparation, viz, the Niger River
(Niamey), the Dallols Bosso and Maouri (Dosso), the Goulbi of Maradi and the Koramas of
Zinder.  (Details are in the Project Implementation Manual - PIM.)  The selected zones
correspond to what the Government has designated as "the strategic agricultural zones" in light of
the development potential and prospects which they represent. These zones are referred to in this
report as the high potential areas. They have been selected based on their relatively favorable
conditions for private irrigation development, i.e. availability of replenishable water resources,
access to land, good soil quality, market outlet, and access to technical services (details are in the
PIM). Other important factors taken into account for the selection of the project zones were the
economic potential in terms of liquidity and profitability of investments in small-scale productive
activities and access to markets, as well as social potential in terms of cooperative tradition and
active NGO-involvement.
4.2          The project zones are located in the better-watered area of Southern Niger
between Niamey and Maradi, covering a stretch of about 600 km along the Nigerian border. They
are located in the Sahelian-Sudanian ecological zone with mainly dry savannah vegetation and
precipitation averaging between 400 mm in the Northern parts and 800 mm in the extreme South,
concentrated in four months (June to September) and are prone to strong drought risks. Rainfall
infiltration is high due to the predominantly sandy soil encountered and rainfall intensity. Vagaries
of weather, particularly the time of rainfall, limit the capacity of rainfed crops to profitably utilize
the yield increasing inputs. Consequently, irrigation is, in these zones, not only essential for
production in the dry season, but also can have an important role in the wet season. Estimates of
replenishable groundwater in this area exceed 500 million m3/year (see details in PMI).
B. Socioeconomic Features
4.3          The project area lies in the Districts of Niger with the highest population density.
The average density of 30 persons/km2 is about five times larger than the national average of
6.2 persons/km2. Seasonal migration towards these zones during both the wet and dry seasons
increases the pressure on the available land. With the improvement and expansion of irrigation
under the proposed project, the cropping intensity will increase substantially as a result of the
general increase that is expected to occur as increasing population and land pressures stimulate a
more intensive land use, especially on smaller farms. In addition to being within close proximity
to the Northern Nigeria market towns, the project area has a rapidly expanding urban population
(rate of urbanization of 20 percent), and as such should have readily available market outlets for
the incremental production supported in the subsector.



- 14 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
5.1          IDA's strategy in the irrigation subsector is to support private sector initiatives and
reducing the role of the State in managing irrigation schemes. It emphasizes better dissemination
of market and price information and encourages the development of autonomous rural
associations, capable of mobilizing savings and providing credit for viable operations. Small
farmers, who are the dominant economic agents in the irrigation subsector are now severely
constrained by inefficient techniques for irrigation, limited information on, and access to
commercial markets to their products and factors of production, lack of access to financial
services, and lack of basic technical and farm management skills. The proposed project is
designed to help overcome these constraints and, thus, create the necessary institutional and
technical capacity for small farmers to fully exploit their potential. The Government is fully
committed to this private sector-led irrigation development strategy and has been fully involved in
the preparation and design of this operation. In addition, project preparation has been conducted
in close association with representatives of existing and potential private irrigators.
B. Project Objectives and Scope
5.2          The proposed project is designed to test and evaluate: (a) local capacity building
through private sector development in the irrigation sector; (b) improved low-cost technologies
for small-scale private irrigation; and (c) procedures that will enable the public sector to
commission projects to the private sector through delegated contract management. By promoting
technologies which meet small-farmer requirements and capabilities, the Project will contribute to
increased small-farmer productivity and incomes, and improved rural well-being. The project
would focus primarily on the poorest small irrigation farmers, and selected private commercial
irmgators.
C. Summary Project Description
5.3          The proposed project would be a four-year pilot for capacity building in small-
scale private irrigation. The Project will have five main components:
(a)   a Private Irri2ation Management Agencv Component aimed at building
institutional and technical capacity for promoting the Government's private sector-
led strategy for the development of small-scale irrigation, in delivery of services
through contract management and for providing demand-driven assistance to small
farmers under procedures which ensure transparency and cost-effectiveness;
(b)   a Small-scale Mechanized  Irrigation  Component aimed at testing and
disseminating simple, low-cost mechanized technologies for small irrigation
farmers (para. 5.6);
(c)   an ImDroved Manual Irrigation Technolozr Component aimed at testing and
disseminating improved manual small-scale irrigation technologies as well as



- 15 -
providing training and technical assistance to the local artisans in the
manufacturing of these technologies; this component also aims at building local
capacity, through technical support and training, in developing entrepreneurial
skills in complimentary non-farm activities, including maintenance and repairs on
simple irrigation equipment (para. 5.7);
(d)   an Environmental Protection Component aimed at developing capacity for
monitoring the potential environmental impact of future investments in irrigation
production and for proper husbandry of the soil and water resources (para. 5.8);
anci
(e)    a Savings and Credit Schemes Component aimed at testing and promoting
viable instruments for providing financial services to rural clients and educating the
beneficiaries on the principles and practices of mutualist savings and credit
schemes, through training and technical assistance (para. 5.9).
D. Detailed Project Description
Private Irrigation Management Agency Component (US$1.3 million)
5.4          Based on the disappointing experience with public irrigation agencies, it was
deemed necessary to establish an association of private irrigators, hereinafter referred to as the
Agency. The Agency has already been established with private legal status in order to insulate it
from the ex ante control and political interference that prevented public agencies from effectively
performing their responsibilities as executing agency of past irrigation programs. The proposed
project will be implemented by the l'Association Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Priv6e
(ANPIP), which was created on July 1, 1992, endowed with significant independence and
autonomy. ANPIP will carry out this function under delegated contract management to deliver
programs of assistance and services to private irrigators. The Association will recruit a small
technical team of national staff by open competition to be responsible for day-to-day project
execution. The package of services fall under two broad categories: those which ANPIP
provides directly and those which it contracts out to others. The services which would be
provided directly by ANPIP, include: (a) carrying out promotional campaigns in support of the
Government's irrigation development strategy; (b) facilitating small farmers' access to the legal
and administrative procedures for obtaining tenurial security; (c) providing assistance, upon
demand, in preparation of bankable irrigation projects and in establishing economic interest
groups (GIEs); and (d) overall project implementation, including procurement and contract
management, coordination of project activities and monitoring and evaluation. The package of
technical assistance and training services which ANPIP will contract out to consulting firms
include: (a) testing and disseminating improved small-scale mechanized and manual irrigation
technologies (paras. 5.6 and 5.7); (b) promoting grassroots savings and credit schemes
(para. 5.9),; and (c) project-related evaluation studies and the periodic audits (para. 5.10).
ANPIP will work closely with the national research and extension services to evaluate the
performance of the contracted services on technology promotion. The Government has submitted
to IDA, prior to negotiations, a draft Statute establishing the above-mentioned economic interest
groups and would enact a law establishing the GIEs as private economic interest groups as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 8.3(a)).



- 16 -
5.5          Detailed description of ANPIP, its Board as well as its role and functions are
presented in Annex 1 of this report; further details are included in the PIM which is available in
project files. The Agency's management team consist of a Director, and four senior technical
staff, including, a communication specialist, an irrigation engineer, a hydrogeologist, and an
agronomist. There will also be an administration team, consisting of a an accounting and financial
officer, an operational assistant, and relevant support staff. The organizational structure, staffing
and associated responsibilities of ANPIP are further defined in the Institutional Setup in Annex 1.
In addition, ANPIP will need a short-term expatriate marketing specialist to establish and monitor
a price and market information system for the project area. The proposed project would finance
the organizational development and operational support which ANPIP would require to
implement the project with due diligence and efficiency. The costs that would be covered include
personnel, short-term technical assistance, consultants' salaries, office equipment, vehicles and
operating costs, as well as annual external audits.
Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation Component (US$1.8 million)
5.6          This component would  comprise testing  and  evaluating  simple, low-cost
mechanized technologies to improve the productivity of smallholder irrigation farmers with plot
sizes larger than 0.5 ha. In addition to promoting the adoption of technologies which already
exist on the shelves or could be easily imported from Nigeria. The project would finance research
in less familiar techniques for tubewell and washbore drilling, water distribution technologies; and
testing of adapted and cost-efficient water distribution systems, including motorized auguring and
rotary drilling systems, motorized bailers, small petrol powered suction pumps, small submersible
pumps for deeper water table applications and distribution systems such as drip or sprinkler
irrigation. Motorized auguring will target zones with soil that is unsuitable for hand auguring
techniques.  The component also builds local capacity through study visits of the Fadama
Development Programs (FDP) in Northern Nigeria for selected demonstration groups, technical
workshops for the staff of ANPIP and Government staff in the Department of Genie Rural of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and extension support for adoption of the technological
innovations promoted under this project. Implementation of this component will be contracted
out by ANPIP. (See Annex 1) Dissemination of the tested technologies will be done through the
existing agricultural extension services supported by the IDA-financed Agricultural Services
Project (Cr.2355-NIR).
Improved Manual Irrigation Component (US$0.8 million)
5.7          This component would focus on testing and evaluating manual technology
packages to improve the productivity of smallholder irrigation farmers with plot sizes of up to
0.5 ha. The manual technologies would include: (a) improvements to hand dug wells to increase
recharge rate and reduce construction costs, manual methods for inserting tubewells, such as,
hand augers, manual bailers and sludger; (b) manual water lifting technologies, such as, those
discussed in paragraph 4.10 above; (c) simple water distribution technologies discussed in
paragraph 4.11 above; and (d) training of local artisans to produce manual irrigation equipment.
The package of services under this component also includes technical and training support to
beneficiaries on complimentary activities, including development of cost-efficient techniques for
crop conservation and storage, agroprocessing, building marketing expertise and linkages; and



- 17 -
creating capacity for maintenance and repairs services in the irrigation subsector.  Since the
majority of women involved in market gardening have smaller plots, special emphasis would be
given to identifying manual technologies acceptable to women.  Implementation of this
component will be contracted out by ANPIP. (See Annex 1) Dissemination of the tested
technologies will be done through the existing agricultural extension services supported by the
IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project (Cr.2355-NIR).
Environmental Protection Component (US$0.3 million)
5.8         The project includes a rigorous program of physical monitoring of shallow aquifer
levels and soil and water quality in the project zones to determine ways of safeguarding against
overexploitation of these aquifers in future investments in irrigation production and to ensure
sustainability of the irrigated farming systems by developing techniques for proper husbandry of
the soil and water resources on which such systems are based. The monitoring system would
focus on monitoring the performance and recharge characteristics of the shallow aquifers and the
possible potential for causing excessive draw-down, the possibility of salinization of the soils as a
result of future irrigation under conditions of high evapotranspiration and possible contamination
of groundwater by agrochemicals. This component also includes soil and water erosion control
works in the river valley zone. This component will be implemented by governmental agencies,
namely, the Nigerien Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAN) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock and the Department of Water Resources of the Ministry of Hydraulics and the
Environment. The costs associated with this component will include motorcycles, equipment and
materials; and incremental operating costs.
The Savings and Credit Schemes Component (US$0.9 million)
5.9         This component would consist of a package of technical assistance and training
services for promotion of savings and credit schemes in the project area. ANPIP will contract the
implementation of this component to consulting firms. (See Annex 1) The contracted firm would
be required to train Nigerien personnel to prepare them to take over the implementation of the
savings and credit schemes after a maximum of three years. The pilot areas will be selected on the
basis of the following criteria:  (a) economic potential, notably, liquidity and investment
profitability and access to markets; (b) social potential, in terms of cooperative tradition; and
(c) institutional base, particularly the existence of farmer associations and support organizations.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that a time-bound action program for the implementation
of the Savings and Credit component acceptable to IDA would be submitted by the Government
to IDA by January 31, 1995, and subsequently implemented (para. 8.1(b)). The services to be
provided by the contracting firm would include feasibility work to identify specific locations
within the project area; identification of target populations to include individual women or women
groups; education and training; support for the creation of SCAs, including provision of
management and accounting tools and safes; development of savings and credit programs;
evaluating each year's activities and undertaking evaluation of groups already established and in
operation. It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would respect the autonomy
and private status of savings and credit cooperatives and would refrain from interference in the
internal management and in the democratic functioning of savings and credit cooperatives and
their institutions (para. 8. Ic)).  Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the



- 18 -
Government would adopt an action program acceptable to IDA, for the implementation of this
component not later than September 30, 1995 (para. 8. Ib).
Studies and Audit (US$0.7million)
5.10         As part of the activities under the Private Association component, ANPIP will
commission independent studies on: (a) review of the existing legal and regulatory framework of
land tenure and the subsequent design of a User's Guide on how to obtain tenurial security and/or
usufruct rights (para. 3.19); (b) improved price and market information systems, including follow-
up actions to establish such a system within ANPIP; (c) a comprehensive review of overall project
performance, which will be used as a background document for the project mid-term review and
final evaluation (para. 6. 11); and (d) the feasibility study on future investment opportunities in the
irrigation subsector, that would include on-farm investments and complimentary commercial
activities. The terms of reference of the above feasibility study would include an assessment of
the potential impacts of irrigation production on the biological features of the fauna and flora and
an examination of other potential riparian issues. ANPIP will provide the necessary administrative
support for these contracted services.
E. Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
5.11         Status of Proiect Preparation. Project preparation was undertaken by a local
multidisciplinary working group established by the Government in 1990. This group participated
actively in the design and preparation of this project and was assisted by an FAO/CP team in
writing the project final preparation report.3 This report is based on various surveys and project
preparation working papers prepared by the local group. The Government and the Bank jointly
prepared a project in April 1992, which would have included a line of credit, estimated at 75
percent of the IDA credit, to finance on-farm investments. Following the elimination of the IDA
line of credit, in August 1993, due to the prevailing unfavorable macroeconomic and financial
sector environment, the Government and the Bank redesigned the project in November 1993 to
focus on building the technical and institutional capacity that would permit sustainable private
sector investments in the irrigation subsector. Selection of the project zones where substantial
replenishable surface and groundwater resources are available and selection of the mechanized
tubewell drilling, water pumping and irrigation techniques to be adopted under the Project have
been made following extensive study work and field visits made by two expatriate hydrologists
and two irrigation engineers with vast experience in groundwater and surface irrigation
development in Africa and Asia.
5.12         International Water Rights. The riparian states of the Niger River have signed the
1980 Faranah Convention creating the Niger Basin Authority (ABN). Under this Convention, the
member states are obliged to inform the Executive Secretariat of ABN of all projects and works
they might intend to carry out in the Basin. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government has complied with this requirement (para. 8. 1(m)). Since the activities to be financed
under this Project would be limited to training, technical assistance and on-station demonstration
of tested improved technologies, the project would not have any adverse effect on water quality
and consumption capacity or the biological characteristics of the fauna and flora. However, this
3/  Report No. 42/91 CP-NER 23 dated April 29, 1991.



- 19 -
Project is financing, in accordance with the recommendations of the studies undertaken on
riparian issues, physical monitoring of the acquifers and the potential for causing excessive draw-
down, salinization and contamination by agrochemicals from future irrigation production
activities. In addition, the Project would finance an assessment of the potential impacts on the
biological features of the fauna and flora and an examination of other potential riparian issues of
future investments in irrigation production (para. 5.8). The Government has provided evidence of
formal notification of the Niger Basin Authority as a condition of Board Presentation
(para. 8.2(b)).
5.13        Implementation Schedule. The Project would be implemented over a four-year
period in accordance with the schedule of expenditure, shown in Annex 4. The first year of the
Project would be primarily devoted to completing the development of ANPIP, identification of
target populations for all the components of the project, with special effort to include individual
women or women groups, publicity campaigns promoting the new private irrigation development
strategy, awarding the contract for acquisition of technologies to be tested and introduced,
education and training in the savings and credit approach, and setting up the monitoring system
for physical monitoring of the shallow aquifer levels and soil and water quality. Gradually, other
actions will be launched, including training and technical support programs for small irrigators,
setting-up a price and market information system as well as studies. All project works are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
F. Cost Estimates
5.14        Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties, which would be waived, but
including price and physical contingencies and the refinancing of advances from the IDA PPF are
estimated at about CFAF 4.4 billion, equivalent to US$7.5 million, with an estimated foreign cost
of US$4.3 million or about 58 percent of total costs. Cost estimates are computed on 1993 base
prices and adjusted subsequently to reflect the full impact of the devaluation of the CFA Franc.
The total allowance for physical contingencies averages 15 percent of base costs for civil works
and 8 percent for other project components. Price contingencies, which amount to 8 percent of
the total cost or 7.7 percent of baseline costs including physical contingencies, assume an annual
domestic inflation rate of 36.7 percent for 1994, 7.3 percent for 1995, 2.9 percent for 1996 and 2
percent for 1997 through 1999, and foreign inflation rates of an average of 2.5 percent over the
same period. A summary of the project costs is shown in Table 1 below. Detailed project costs
are presented in Annex 2.



- 20 -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
CFAF million              US$ million        % Foreign   % Total
Category              Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange  Base Costs
Private Project Mgmt   640.0   535.5   1175.5      1.08     0.91    1.99    46         31
Association (ANPIP)
Small-scale Mechanized    223.4  850.7   1074.1    0.38     1.44    1.82    79         28
Irrigation
Improved Manual        221.3  233.1    454.4       0.38    0.39    0.77    51          12
Irrigation
Enviromnental           58.7  129.7    188.4       0.10    0.22    0.32    69           5
Protection
Savings and Credit     279.9  243.3    523.2       0.47    0.41    0.89    47          14
Schemes
PPF Refinancing        104.8  309.2    414.0       0.18    0.52    0.70    75          11
Total Baseline Costs  1528.1  2301.5   3829.6      2.59    3.90    6.49    60         100
Physical Contingencies  88.1   177.7    265.8     0.15     0.30    0.45    67          7
Price Contingencies    240.9    77.8    318.8     0.41     0.13    0.54    24          8
Total Project Costs   1857.1  2557.1   4414.2      3.15    4.33    7.48    58         115
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
G. Financing Plan
5.15          The IDA Credit of US$6.8 million equivalent will finance about 90 percent of total
project costs, net of taxes and duties. Financing would cover vehicles, equipment, tools and
materials, consultant services, and incremental personnel and operating costs.  The Nigerien
Government would contribute about 10 percent of total project costs (US$0.7 million). This
amount would finance 40 percent of the incremental personnel costs of the participating
governmental agencies as well as the auxiliary personnel and operation and maintenance costs of
the project management agency, ANPIP. The financing plan for the project is shown in the table
below.
5.16          Government Counterpart Contributions.  The Governrment would provide in its
budget amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the project
(para. 5.15). In this regard, the Government will open and maintain an account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
and deposit into this account, an initial deposit in CFA Franc equivalent to US$175,000,
representing the amount of its annual counterpart contributions. Following the initial deposit, the
Government shall deposit in the above project account, by January 1 of each year, an amount
equivalent to the initial deposit for further implementation of the Project. The opening of this
account and the making of the initial deposit would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.3(f)).



- 21 -
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY SOURCE
_____  _ -----(US$ million) -
Local         Foreign         Total
Governient               0.7            0.0            0.7
IDA                      2.5            4.3            6.8
TOTAL                    3.2            4.3            7.5
H. Procurement and Use of Consultants
5.17        Procurement would be managed by the privately-managed association, ANPIP.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that all procurement under IDA Credit would
be in accordance with procedures consistent with Bank Guidelines for Procurement and
Consulting Services and carried out by ANPIP (para. 8. 1(a)). Submission of a Procurement Plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for procurement of goods would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 8.3(g)). Because ANPIP is new and would lack experience on procurement issues, the
management team (the Director, the accounting and financial officer, and the two technical staff)
financed under the project (see para. 5.5) would be trained in IDA procurement procedures, to be
able to manage all procurement matters. To this end, a project launch workshop will be
organized. The project elements, their estimated costs and the proposed methods of procurement
are summarized in Table 3 below.
5.18        Goods (US$0.4 million). The goods to be procured, under this project, include
vehicles and spare parts. Since the purchases are for small packages and miscellaneous equipment
mostly needed at an early stage of the project, competitive bidding would not be the most efficient
and economic method of procurement. Vehicles (2 light vehicles and 2 four wheel drive) and
spare parts will be purchased through the use of International Shopping and/or IAPSO for an
aggregate value of US$400,000. Office equipment and furniture in packages below US$50,000
for an aggregate value of US$400,000 may be purchased through local shopping method of
procurement based on comparing price quotations from at least three local suppliers.
Miscellaneous goods and office equipment for values below US$20,000 may be purchased
through direct contracting following procedures acceptable to the Association.



- 22 -
Table 3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
PROJECT ELEMENT                          Int. Sh.   Local   OTHER        NIF       TOTAL
1. GOODS
1.1 ANPIP                              0.4                                        0.4
(0.4)                                     (0.4)
2. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES,
TRAINING, STUDIES & AUDITS
2.1  ANPIP /a                                               0.9                    0.9
(0.9)                 (0.9)
2.2  Mechanized Irrigation Component                        2.2                    2.2
(2.2)                 (2.2)
2.3  Manual Irrigation Component                            0.9                   0.9
(0.9)                 (0.9)
2.4  Savings & Credit Component                             1.1                    1.1
(1.1)                 (1.1)
3. OPERATING COSTS
3.1  ANPIP                                       0.4        0.2        0.4         1.0
(0.4)     (0.2)                 (0.6)
3.2  Government Agencies It                                            0.3        0.3
4. PPF REFINANCING                                             0.7                   0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
TOTAL                                      0.4      0.4        6.4        0.7        7.5
(of which is IDA)                         (0.4)    (0.4)      (6.4)                 (6.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ( are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit. NF = Not IDA Financed.
/_ Including support to ANPIP for overall project implementation and associated technical support to beneficiaries,
studies and audits.
/b For the envirorment protection component.
5.19          Consulting Services, Studies and Training (US$5.1 million). The services to be
provided under the proposed project include direct support to ANPIP for overall project
implementation and associated technical support to beneficiaries, implementation support
contracted out to individual consultants or consulting firms, including NGOs, studies, and
training. All consultant services would be procured in accordance with "The Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" as indicated in the Agency's Procedures Manual (Chapter I, Section IV(E) of the
Procedures Manual). These services will include the contracts for the implementation of the
following components: (a) small-scale mechanized irrigation promotion; (b) improved manual
irrigation; (c) savings and loans associations promotion; and (d) studies, which will include
engineering, training, setting up a price and market information system, audits and a feasibility



- 23 -
study on investment opportunities in the irrigation subsector. Contracts under (b), (c), and (d)
will include a limited provision for irrigation equipment, computers, tools and materials, and
supplies essential for the consultants' assignment.
5.20         Operating costs will include O&M, and off-the-shelf procurement of materials and
supplies.
5.21         Bank prior review procedures will be followed with respect to: (a) all contracts
for Goods estimated at US$100,000 or more; (b) all consultant services' terms of reference; and
(c) all consultant contract documents for single source selection of firms, or estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms selected from a short list and US$50,000 for
individuals. Other contracts would be reviewed by the Bank ex Dost on a sample basis during
project supervision (1 in 4).
5.22         Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award by Borrower;
(b)   comprehensive 6-monthly reports by ANPIP to IDA indicating: (i) revised timing
of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts; and (ii) compliance with aggregate limits
on specified methods of procurement; and
(c)    a completion report by the Borrower within six months of the Credit's Closing
date.
I Disbursements
5.23         The IDA credit would be disbursed over a five-year period. This deviates from the
standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Niger on the grounds that the private
status of the Agency will allow its Director and key technical personnel to prepare disbursement
requests expeditiously without being encumbered by countless and inefficient bureaucratic
procedures of the central administration. All disbursement activities under this Project will be
managed by the Government. The Closing Date of the credit would be June 30, 2000, or one
year after project completion. This time is required for the completion of studies, the payment of
goods, and services procured during the last year of the project and the processing of the
corresponding disbursement applications. The expected schedule of disbursements is given in
Annex 4, and summarized in Table 4.



- 24 -
Table 4: ESTIMATED II)A DISBURSEMENTS/a
IDA Fiscal Year
1995         1996         1997         1998          1999         2000
Annual           1.5          1.4           1.9          1.1          0.6          0.3
Cumulative       1.5          2.9          4.8           5.9          6.5          6.8
/a     The projections deviate from the standard profile for agricultural projects in Niger (i.e., they are based on
the Profile for Sectoral Adjustment Loans) because: (i) as a pilot capacity-building project, a large part of the
disbursements, especially for the Goods category, would take place in the early phase of the Project; and
(ii) because the Agency, due to its private status, is expected to prepare and process disbursement requests
expeditiously without being subject to countless bureaucratic procedures.
5.24          Disbursement categories, credit amount and the share of expenditures to be
financed by IDA would be as follows:
Table 5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount of the            % of Expenditures
Categories                Credit Allocated (US$ m)       Financed by IDA
1. VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT
AND MATERIALS                                 0.4                        100%
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES,
TRAINING, STUDIES                             4.5                        100%
AND AUDITS
3. INCREM. OPERAT. COSTS'a                       0.5                         60%
4. PPF REFINANCING                               0.7
5. Unallocated                                   0.7
Total                                            6.8
/a    Incremental operating costs are defined as travel allowances, materials, supplies as well as the operations
and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and offices.
5.25          Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures
relating to incremental operating costs, training, and all contracts costing less than US$100,000
which would be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). In the case of SOE
procedure, supporting documentation would be kept by ANPIP for verification by the auditors
and for review by IDA supervision missions.
5.26          Special Account. In order to facilitate project execution, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate, in a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, a Special Account into



- 25 -
which IDA will deposit an initial amount in Franc CFA equivalent to US$0.5 million, representing
estimated credit disbursements over four months for eligible expenditures under the Project. IDA
would replenish these accounts monthly, upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that all
expenditures were eligible for financing, together with a Bank statement reconciled with invoices
and/or statements of expenditures submitted. All payments of less than US$100,000 equivalent
will be made through the Special Account. Full documentation would be retained for inspection
in the course of normal project supervision and by independent auditors. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Borrower would operate the special account according to procedures,
acceptable to the Association (para. 8. 1 (d)).
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
6.1         The Project will be implemented under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock whose primary function will be to ensure the enforcement of the
Framework Agreement (Convention) (para 6.3). .Under this agreement, the Government selected
the l'Association Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (ANPIP) (the Association), to
execute this project with the notable exception of the environmental protection component. The
Association will entrust responsibilities for day-to-day project implementation to a team of
competent local staff. ANPIP will have primary responsibility for the package of services which it
provides directly to beneficiaries (para. 5.4) and for delivering the package of training and
technical assistance services which it contracts out to consulting firms, for the implementation of
the following components: (a) improved mechanized irrigation; (b) improved manual irrigation;
(c) savings and credit promotion; and (d) studies and audits. The environmental protection
component would be implemented by the Department of Water Resources of the Ministry of
Hydraulics and the Environment (MOH). The infrastructure and competencies required for
effective implementation of this component presently exists only in the public sector. This
government department has accumulated valuable experience in project implementation under the
previous IDA-financed Namaringoungou and Irrigation Rehabilitation Projects and the ongoing
Agricultural Research Project. These agencies will be subject to the strict supervision and
monitoring requirements outlined in paragraphs 6.6 to 6.9.
6.2         The Agency. The implementing arrangements for the Agency, especially with
respect to the procurement of the different package of services which it cannot provide directly,
are similar to those of NIGETIP in Niger, AGETIP in Senegal and GAMWORKS in The Gambia.
These arrangements are described in detail in the Procedural Manual (para. 6.3). ANPIP is an
independent institution, with the legal status of a non-governmental, non-profit organization. Its
Board is drawn from the private irrigation sector, consisting of individual farmers and
representatives of farmers' cooperatives in both the rural and urban areas. ANPIP has the legal
status of a private agency and will enter into an agreement (Convention) with the Government of
Niger to execute the Project (See Implementation Manual). It will follow its own procedures and
will not be encumbered by cumbersome bureaucratic procedures and will strive to ensure
efficiency and transparency in the execution of its mission without any political interference.



- 26 -
6.3         Creation of the Agency. As a condition of negotiations, the Agency has been
created by a general meeting of its Board of Directors (the Board), held on July 1, 1992, and, as a
condition of Board presentation, its director and team of four technical staff. with qualifications
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA have been recruited (para. 8.2(a)). A draft framework
agreement (Convention), to which a Procedures Manual is attached, acceptable to IDA, whereby
the Government designates ANPIP as the executing agency of this project, has been submitted
prior to negotiations, and the signing of a Convention, acceptable to IDA in form and substance
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.3(b)). The Procedures Manual will include: (a)
eligibility criteria for selecting subprojects submitted by potential beneficiaries for implementation
under the proposed project; (b) procurement and disbursement procedures; (c) internal
organization and administrative, financial and accounting management; and (d) extemal control
and audits.
6.4         The professional staff of the Agency would be recruited mainly from the private
sector through recruitment procedures satisfactory to IDA. Any staff member from the public
sector would have to resign before accepting a position in the Agency. The compensation offered
to the staff will be high enough to make it attractive to top-level professionals. It was agrred
during negotiations that any change in the Director of ANPIP will be acceptable to the
Association (para. 8.1(f)). The Agency will be based in Niamey, and will have a regional center in
Maradi region. It will be headed by a Director, who will be a competent Nigerien with strong
background in irrigated agriculture. ANPIP's Director would be responsible for: (a) overall
project implementation performance; (b) providing external auditors with the necessary
information for audit of project accounts; and (c) relations with government ministries and
technical services, the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture, non-governmental organizations
and projects and all other parties involved in project activities. Staffing of the Association is
described in detail in Annex 2.
6.5         In order to ensure expeditious implementation of the Project, the Agency would
have full authority, without being submitted to any ex ante clearance, for carrying out the whole
process of project execution. The Agency would, however, be submitted to close ex post
supervision by the Government and will be required to furnish detailed activity reports as outlined
(see Section B below).
B. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
6.6         Annual Work Programs.  ANPIP and MOH would establish an annual work
program and budget for each project year for Government's and IDA's review and approval.
Contracting participant governmental agencies and consulting firms will provide operational data
and other information as may be reasonably requested by ANPIP for the preparation of these
programs. The program for the first year of the project will be submitted prior to effectiveness
(para. 8.3(d)), and the programs for the remaining three years will be submitted to IDA no later
than June 30, every year for implementation starting the following year. The work programs
would each contain a detailed review of implementation performance during the preceding year.
The objective of these programs would be: (a) to facilitate review of overall program direction,
performance of individual components and periodic assessment of the ability of the programs to
reach the intended beneficiaries or achieve the assigned objectives; (b) to serve as a planning and
monitoring tool; and (c) to alert managers of the problems in program implementation and of the



- 27 -
need for investigation of causes of performance deviation and recourse to necessary corrective
action by appropriate adjustments/modifications in the program. Each program would include:
(a) a budget for project activities with the details for each component; (b) monitorable targets for
project activities; (c) commitments and expected disbursements under the IDA credit; and (d) a
discussion of any major issues and problems affecting project implementation and proposed
follow-up actions.
6.7          Ouarterly and Annual Progress Reports.  ANPIP's and MOH's technical team
would regularly collect and analyze data on key performance indicators (para. 6.8) to assess
implementation progress, including assessment of the performance of participating consultant
services and governmental agencies, identify difficulties encountered, summarize the corrective
actions which need to be taken and prepare a quarterly report. Based on the above reports,
ANPIP would prepare and submit to IDA and the Government quarterly and annual progress
reports not later than two months after the end of each reporting period. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Goverrunent and IDA would meet at least twice a year to discuss
these reports and to exchange views with regard to the performance of ANPIP, and to propose
and implement any measure that will be deemed useful to ensure actual fulfillment of the project's
objectives, including hiring and dismissal of the ANPIP's staff (para. 8.1e)).  In addition,
agreement was reached during negotiations that ANPIP and MOH would prepare quarterly and
annual progress reports, which would be submitted to the Government and the Association,
including up-to-date physical and expenditure data for each project component as well as a report
on the performance of consultant services (para. 8. lg)).
6.8          Supervision. Given the pilot nature of the project and the innovativeness of the
activities being promoted, particular attention need to be paid to quality control of
implementation. Therefore, project supervision is expected to be staff-intensive, requiring
approximately 12sw, the expected project start-up being in January 1995, and 20sw from FY96 to
FY2000. The Government will organize, with support from ANPIP, an annual donor's meeting to
ensure greater harmonization of principles and procedures adopted for promoting private sector
initiatives in the irrigation smallholder sector.
6.9          The first year of implementation will be devoted to activities aimed at creating the
conditions for success of this operation. These would include training of ANPIP staff on Bank
procurement procedures, familiarization of staff and beneficiaries with ANPIP's principal mission
and with the package of services it provides, internalization of the ANPIP's Manual of
Procedures, promotional campaigns by ANPIP and the testing/development of the different
technical packages that will be disseminated subsequently. IDA will work closely with the
Government's technical group on private irrigation and the various implementing agencies in
launching the project. As indicated in the Supervision Plan in Annex 7, IDA would mount a joint
supervision mission with the Government in order to officially launch the project's implementation
shortly after the effectiveness date.
6.10         Donor Coordination. One of the principal missions of the Association of Private
Irrigators (ANPIP), which will be responsible for executing this project, is to promote the
governments strategy for the development of private irrigation, with special reference to the task
of ensuring that all externally-funded investment activities in the irrigation subsector are consistent
with the above strategy. The project will finance technical assistance support to ANPIP in order



- 28 -
to, among other things, build capacity for donor coordination and for serving as intermediary
between donors and private irrigators. In addition, the Bank will encourage donor participation in
the mid-term evaluation of this pilot project and in future discussions of a possible follow-up
operation.
6.11         Performance Monitoring.   The monitoring  indicators to  measure project
performance and implementation efficiency of ANPIP, the consulting firms and NGOs and the
participating government agencies (GAs) will be the following: (a) number of GIEs formed per
year; (b) number of mechanized water lifting and water distribution technologies tested per year;
(c) number of on-farm/on-station dissemination/evaluation activities held annually to promote
improved mechanized technologies; (d) number of manual water lifting and water distribution
technologies tested and/or developed; (e) number of dissemination/evaluation sessions held
annually to promote manual irrigation technologies; (f) number of savings and credit associations
created per year; (g) number of membership in savings and credit associations per year; and
(h) number of beneficiaries trained in manufacturing manual irrigation technologies and in savings
and credit principles and practices. Below is a table indicating the desired numbers to be achieved
for each project year.
6.12         Mid-Term Review. By the end of the second year following credit effectiveness,
the Government and IDA  would undertake a joint mid-term  review, consisting of a
comprehensive evaluation of implementation performance, with particular focus on the extent to
which the project is realizing its expected developmental objectives. The objective of this review
is to evaluate overall implementation performance and to make recommendations, if needed, to
modify some of the design features of the Project. The review would include: (a) critical
assessment of the implementation of the adapted technology program, including the rate of
diffusion of the tested technologies, adoption of new technologies, number of women
beneficiaries, number of artisans trained in manufacture and repairs of manual irrigation
technologies; (b) evaluation of the savings and credit program, including assessment of the
validity of the approach, the effectiveness of the tools used for promotional activities and for
operating the schemes, quantitative performance in terms of meeting numerical targets (see PIM),
especially with respect to number of beneficiaries trained in savings and credit education and
associated farm management skills, and the enabling environment; (c) evaluation of performance
of ANPIP, with special reference to efficiency in delivering services to beneficiaries, number of
producer groups created and their performance; (d) evaluation of the performance of consultants
and participating government agencies; and (f) assessment of project sustainability. It was agreed
during negotiations that the Government would carry out a mid-term assessment of the project at
least eight weeks before the beginning of the mid-term review mission, and that its report will be
submitted to IDA two weeks before the mid-term review (para. 8.1(k)). The mid-term review
would make recommendations on possible changes in design and time-bound monitorable actions
to enhance implementation performance during the remainder of project life. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a mid-term review of the Project would be carried out in the second
year following credit effectiveness, and that the operational conclusions accepted by the
Government and IDA would be promptly implemented (paras. 8. 1(j) and (k)).



- 29 -
C. Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
6.13        ANPIP would establish and maintain its accounts in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS). ANPIP and MOH would conserve all the documentation related to
project expenditures. A detailed proposal on the accounting system and procedures to be
followed, profile of personnel needed and equipment required would be prepared by consultants
under PPF financing. The terms of reference for the consultants to be recruited to establish the
accounting and financial management system of ANPIP was reviewed and agreed upon at
negotiations (para. 8.1(1)), and the establishment of a financial management and accounting
system for ANPIP and MOH, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 8.3 (c)). ANPIP and MOH would at all times keep financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect its operations and financial position. These records would
be made available to visiting Bank missions and independent auditors. It was agreed during
negotiations that ANPIP's accounts would be audited quarterly and MOH accounts would be
audited annually, in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing (ISA), by independent
external auditors acceptable to IDA. In addition to financial audits, ANPIP would be subject to
quarterly management and technical audits; the audited accounts and the auditor's report,
including the Management Letter (Long Form), and a statement as to whether or not IDA funds
had been used for their intended purpose and a separate opinion with respect to statements of
expenditures and the Special Account, would be submitted to IDA within three months of the end
of the close of each quarter, with respct to ANPIP and within six months of the end of the fiscal
year for MOH (para 8.1(h)). It was also agreed during negotiations that an interim audit of
ANPIP's accounting system and internal controls would be carried out during the first three years
following the effectiveness date, and the auditors' report submitted to IDA not later than
September 30th in each fiscal year (para. 8.1(h)). The Terms of Reference for audit contracts are
provided in the PIV. Agreement was reached at negotiations on the terms of reference, the
shortlist of firms and the selection procedures for audit contracts (para. 8. 1(i)), and a multi-year
contract award for auditing the project and ANPIP's accounts, acceptable to the Assocition,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 8.3(e)).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Benefits
7.1         An economic rate of return has not been calculated due to the service and
institution-building nature of this operation. The project is an investment in creating capacity for a
self-sustaining process of technological development, including its financing, with a pay-off
spreading over many years. However, while it is difficult to be precise, broad-based and
substantial increases in family welfare are expected as a result of the proposed project. It is
estimated that the technology promotion program would benefit at least 4,000 smallholder
families through increased productivity and income. This direct benefit would result from their
adoption of motorized pumps which have been designed to meet small farmer-requirements and-
capabilities, by making tubewells less expensive, more versatile and easier to install. The project
would also have an added benefit of training artisans to manufacture and repair adapted small-
scale irrigation technologies.



- 30 -
7.2          Another major direct benefit of the project would be its contributions to the
development of rural financial intermediation. Over the four-year implementation period, the
project would establish about 60 savings and credit associations at the grassroots level which
would provide improved access to financial services to their membership of some 2,500 family
units, or 15,000 persons. The indirect benefits from the cultivation of a savings culture along
mutualist lines, would contribute to significantly improved smallholder-access to financial
services, as the supported actions would ease the risk and high transaction cost that have, until
now, prevented commercial banks from lending to potential rural clients. Other intangible social
benefits include the establishment of a service-oriented private sector agency for irrigation
development, improvement in the social status of women and development of associations/groups
of producer enterprises oriented towards solving common problems faced in their income-
generating activities.
7.3          Overall, the innovations introduced under this project would provide private
economic agents in Niger's smallholder sector with the technical and management know-how that
is now critically lacking to significantly increase the productivity of their resources and
independent capabilities as well as to enhance prevailing opportunities offered by formal markets
for products and technology.
B. Risks
7.4          A major risk is that, over time, the Government may subject the new agency
(ANPIP) to bureaucratic controls and pressures of political patronage which could undermine the
agency's autonomy and effectiveness. The Government's willingness to use a non-governmental
association to deliver publicly-funded services for promoting its private-led irrigation development
strategy can be expected to ensure the independence and professionalism of this association.
Regular joint Government-IDA review of the performance of the agency will also serve to
minimize the risk of Government interference. The risk of political patronage will be alleviated by
other safeguards built into the project, including: (a) clearly spelled out and enforceable
performance criteria for ANPIP; and (b) IDA's prior review and approval of ANPIP's annual work
program; and beneficiaries will be organized into solidarity groups which can deny entry to those
outside the target group who may attempt to improperly access project resources. As is true for
most new and inexperienced institutions, a managerial risk may exist with respect to ANPIP,
including the potential for misuse of public funds. This risk will be minimized through personnel
training, adequate internal regulation and monitoring systems and strict enforcement of the
Agency's operational guidelines (ANPIP's Manual of Procedures).   Another risk is the
Government's inability to provide counterpart contributions for financing of incremental operating
expenditures, especially in light of past underfunding of operations and maintenance in the sector.
This risk will be minimized by reliance on private sector institutions for project implementation,
and by requiring the Government to make up-front and, subsequently, annual deposits into an
account for payment of its counterpart contributions. Finally, Government interference through
restrictive legislation or unnecessary controls are likely to stifle grassroots initiatives in financial
intermnediation. Such a risk would be minimized by requiring the Governrment to provide an
appropriate legal framework for grassroots savings and loan associations, as well as a clear
regulatory framework for the GIEs, which would ensure accountability and transparency.



- 31 -
C. Environmental Impact
7.5         The environmental category "B" has been assigned to the Project.  The
environmental assessment has been undertaken by FAO/CP as part of the normal work of project
preparation. Its major finding is that the project will not have any profound negative effect on the
environment. As an institution-building operation, the project does not include a crop production
component. Rather, it is designed to create the necessary capacity that will make future on-farm
investments in the irrigation subsector profitable, sustainable and environmental sound. The
project will finance activities which will, in fact contribute to greater enhancement of the
environment, including: (a) monitoring shallow aquifer levels and soil and water quality in the
project area to determine ways of safeguarding against overexploitation of these aquifers in future
investment operations, and (b) soil and water erosion control works in the river valley zone of the
project area. By introducing modem techniques for proper husbandry of the soil and water
resources, the project would ensure sustainability of the irrigated farming systems in the
smallholder sector.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1         During negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a)   all procurement under IDA credit would be in accordance with procedures
consistent with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement and Consulting Services, and
carried out by ANPIP (para. 5.17);
(b)   the Government would adopt a time-bound action program for the implementation
of the Savings and Credit component acceptable to IDA by September 30, 1995
(para. 5.9);
(c)   the Government would respect the autonomy and private status of savings and
credit cooperatives and would refrain from interference in the internal management
and in the democratic functioning of savings and credit cooperatives and their
institutions (para. 5.9);
(d)   the Special Account would be operated according to procedures acceptable to the
Association (para. 5.26);
(e)   at least twice a year, a meeting between Government and IDA would be organized
to exchange views on the performance of the Agency, and to propose and
implement any measure that will be deemed necessary to ensure realization of the
project's objectives, including hiring and dismissal of the Agency's staff (para. 6.7);
(f)   any change in the Director of ANPIP will be discussed with and acceptable to the
Association (para. 6.4);
(g)   ANPIP and MOH would prepare quarterly and annual progress reports, which
would be submitted to Government and IDA, including up-to-date physical and



- 32 -
expenditure data for each project component as well as a report on the
performance of contracting consultant services (para. 6.7);
(h)   ANPIP's accounts would be audited quarterly and MOH accounts would be
audited annually, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), by
a firm of external auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's report, including the
Management Letter (Long Form), and a statement as to whether or not IDA funds
had been used for their intended purpose and a separate opinion with respect to
statements of expenditures and the Special Account would be submitted to IDA
within three months of the end of each quarter. In addition, an interim audit of
ANPIP's accounting system and internal controls would be carried out during the
first three years following the effectiveness date, and the auditors' report submitted
to IDA by September 30th of each fiscal year (para. 6.13);
(i)   draft terms of reference for audit contracts, a shortlist of firms as well as an outline
of the selection procedures for awarding audit contracts would be agreed upon
with IDA (para. 6.13);
(j)   in the second year following the credit effectiveness date, the Government would
carry out jointly with IDA and any other donor and private organizations, such as
NGOs interested in participating, a detailed mid-term review of project
implementation performance, covering inter alia the issues mentioned in paragraph
6.12;
(k)   not later than two weeks prior to the mid-term review, the Government would
submit to IDA a report by independent consultants assessing the progress of
project execution and covering the same issues mentioned in paragraphs 6.10 and
6.11; and soon after the mid-term review, implement its recommendations in
accordance with an agreed time-bound action plan (para. 6.12);
(I)   the terms of reference for the consultant to be recruited to establish the accounting
and financial management system of ANPIP would be jointly reviewed and agreed
upon by the Government and IDA (para. 6.13); and
(m)   the Government has informed the Executive Secretariat of the Niger Basin
Authority (ABN) about undertaking this Project in the Basin as required under the
1980 Faranah Convention (para. 5.12).
8.2          As condition of Board Presentation, the Government has:
(a)   recruited the Director of ANPIP and four technical staff, with qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to the Association (para. 6.3).



- 33 -
(b)   notified the Niger River Basin Authority in conformity with its obligations under
the 1980 Faranah Convention (para. 5.12).
8.3         Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be that the Government would:
(a)   enact and promulgate legislation establishing a legal regime for Groupements
d'Interet Economique enabling the organization of farmers into economic interest
groups (para. 5.4);
(b)   sign with ANPIP a Convention in form  and substance acceptable to the
Association (para. 6.3);
(c)   cause ANPIP and MOH to establish a financial management and accounting
system for the project, acceptable to the Association (para. 6.13);
(d)   cause ANPIP and MOH to submit to the Association their annual work program
and budget for the first 12 months after the effective date of project
implementation, and acceptable to the Association (para. 6.6);
(e)   cause ANPIP and MOH to sign a multi-year contract with an auditor for the
auditing of the project and ANPIP's accounts, acceptable to the Association
(para. 6.13);
(f)   open the Project Account and deposit the initial deposit therein (para. 5.16);
(g)   submit a Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the procurement of
all goods during the execution of the Project (para. 5.17).
8.4         Recommendations.  With the above conditions and agreement, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.8 million equivalent to the Republic of Niger
on standard IDA terms with 40 years of maturity.






- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SETUP
The institutional setup of this project is reflected in legal and contractual relationships
among the various actors concerned: the central government, local governments and other
beneficiaries, the Executing Agency, contractors, and consulting firms/individual consultants. The
term "contractors" is used here to include building and construction companies, cooperatives,
Groupements d'lnteret Economique (GIE) and other legally constituted entities able to enter into a
contract for subproject execution. The term "consulting firm/individual consultants" refers to local or
foreign consulting firms or private individual consultants, as well as other legally constituted entities
(e.g., non-governmental organizations (NGOs)) able to provide the services required. The legal texts
setting forth the above-mentioned contractual relationships are described below:
(a)    The implementation of the project is entrusted to an executing agency named
l'Association Nig#rienne pour la Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (ANPIP), hereafter
referred to as "the Agency". The Statutes (Articles of Agreement) of the Agencv
(Statuts, PIV) which must at all times be acceptable to the Bank, provide that the
Agency is a non-profit association whose Assemblee Generale includes representatives
of irrigation cooperatives and individual private irrigators. The role of the President of
the Assemblee Generale is limited to convening and presiding over the meetings
thereof. The Assemblee Generale also includes one person elected Director of the
Agency, to whom is fully entrusted the day-to-day management of the Agency. As
provided by the Statutes of the Agency, the Director may be replaced only by
extraordinary decision of the Assemblee Generale. The Director, however, must be at
all times acceptable to the Bank.  The Agency was effectively created after the
founding members of the Assemblee Generale hold their first meeting (Assemble
Generale Constitutive) to approve the Statutes, and the Ministere de 1'InzWrieur issued
its agrement. The creation of the Agency was a condition of negotiations.
(b)    The Framework Agareement (Convention, See Implementation Manual) between the
Government and the Agency describes the latter's modus operandi in the context of the
present project. Among other things, the Agreement establishes that: the Agency will
deliver a package of services consistent with those defined in the project; these services
will be exclusively located in the Project area (Maradi, Dosso, Tillabery/Niamey,
Zinder); the central government will place non-reimbursable financial resources at the
disposal of the Agency, including the proceeds of the credit (in a Special Account); the
Agency can also receive resources from other sources; the Procedures Manual is an



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
integral part of the Framework Agreement; the Director of the Agency has full powers
in connection with the management of the Agency; the Director can be replaced only in
accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the Agency; the Government confers to
the Agency all powers required for the implementation of the project; the Agency will
execute this project in strict compliance with the Procedures Manual (which is anl
integral part of the Framework Agreement); and the Bylaws of the Agency cannot he
modified without Government's agreement.
(c)    The Bylaws of the Agency (Reglement Interieur, see PIM) establish: the internal
organization; hiring, firing and other personnel management procedures; and
administrative rules and regulations.  They ensure, among other things, that the
Agency will have a small staff, including a Director assisted by one Financial Director
and a technical team consisting of a communications specialist and two technlical
specialists.
(d)    The Procedures Manual (Manuel de Procedures, see PIM), which must at all times be
acceptable to the Bank, recalls the fundamental objectives of the Agency and
establishes: the procedures whereby the Agency receives and processes subproject
execution requests from beneficiaries, the procedures used by the Agency to establish
and continuously update a roster of contractors for different types of subprojects; the
various procurement procedures to be used by the Agency for subproject execution
(depending on the estimated value of the contract), including Sample Bidding
Documents with model contract to be signed with contractor (Modele de Lettre de
Soumission, Modele-Type de Caution dAvance, and Contrat-Type de Travailc); the
procurement procedures to be used by the Agency for subproject engineering and
supervision, including model contracts to be signed with consulting firms
(Contrat-Type d'Etudes and Contrat-Type de Supervision des Travaux); the accounting
and disbursement procedures to be used by the Agency in connection with each
subproject; the nature and periodicity of reporting by the Agency; the procedures to be
followed to secure independent external auditing of the Agency; and personnel
management procedures.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Organisation et gestion du projet
Obiectifs et strategies du projet
I .           Le contexte institutionnel du developpement agricole (dont le sous-secteur de l'irrigation)
au Niger est caracterise par des insuffisances profondes au niveau des capacites de gestion. Ce constat
est justifi6 par la mauvaise utilisation des rares competences qui existent, mais aussi par la lourdeur des
procedures administratives qui regissent le fonctionnement des structures d'intervention. C'est la raison
pour laquelle, sur la base d'une etude juridique et institutionnelle, il a ete propose d'opter pour une
agence d'execution de droit prive, independante de l'Etat dans son fonctionnement quotidien, et donc
capable d'echapper aux lourdeurs de la machine administrative. Cette agence se classe juridiquement
dans la categorie des associations dont les traits essentiels sont l'absence de but lucratif, la non obligation
de constitution de capital social, et la grande souplesse statutaire et reglementaire dans son
fonctionnement. Cette association, denomme l'Association Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Priv6e
(ANPIP), a dejA et creee (Arrete N 121/MI/DAPJ du Ministre de l'Int6rieur en date du 12 Juillet 1993)
et le Gouvernement a marque son accord pour lui confier la gestion du projet.
2.             Le Gouvernement a par ailleurs adopte une nouvelle politique economique qui reserve
une part active au secteur prive dans le developpement de tous les secteurs d'activite, dont precisement
celui de l'agriculture. Le Projet constitue A cet egard un outil important qui a pour objectif general de
contribuer A l'emergence d'une capacite institutionnelle et technique susceptible de jouer un r6le moteur
dans le pilotage et la mise en oeuvre de projets d'irrigation interessant le secteur prive, en tant
qu'operateur. De facon plus specifique, les objectifs du projet portent sur:
(a)    le developpement d'appuis techniques et de conseils economiques aux investisseurs de
maniere A les orienter vers des options techniques performantes, maitrisables et A faible
couit; ces appuis permettront par ailleurs de rendre les dossiers de cr6dit plus credibles
vis-A-vis du secteur prive bancaire;
(b)    la mise A la disposition des irrigants prives, par l'experimentation d'un eventail le plus
large possible de technologies adaptees A l'environnement physique, economique et social,
dans les domaines de la mobilisation, 1'exhaure et la distribution de l'eau;
(c)    l'aide A la creation d'institutions d'epargne et de credit pour developper progressivement
leur capacite de financement d'investissements agricoles de petite echelle et A mobilier
davantage l'epargne qui en decoulerait;



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
(d)    le d6clenchement et le soutien de mesures de renovation du cadre juridique et
institutionnel dans le sens de faciliter l'acces A la terre, de mieux securiser les
investissements  et  d'organiser  la  diffusion   de  l'information   economique
(commercialisation des produits);
(e)    la mise en oeuvre d'actions de preservation de l'environnement en faisant la promotion
de solutions techniques adaptees et par le suivi de phenomenes precis.
3.             Les taches specifiques devolues A l'ANPIP pour atteindre les objectifs ci-dessus enumeres,
et en dehors de tout but lucratif, sont les suivantes:
(a)    diffusion du concept, de la strategie et des conditions institutionnelles du developpement
de l'irrigation privee au plan national;
(b)    appui aux irrigants prives qui en ferait la demande dans la preparation de dossiers
techniques et economiques pour l'acces au credit;
(c)    appui aux institutions bancaires qui en feraient la demande par la formulation d'avis
techniques sur les dossiers de credit;
(d)    mise au point et diffusion de technologies adaptees, facilement maitrisables, A faible coit
et rentables, et ne comportant pas d'effets de nature A entamer l'equilibre de
l'environnement ou A le polluer;
(e)    formation, encadrement et conseils aux irrigants prives pour la mise en place
d'installations d'irrigation, et leur exploitation technique et economique pour une
production de grande competitivite commerciale;
(f)    appui A la creation et au bon fonctionnement de groupements d'interet economique (GIE)
pour faciliter aux membres l'acces au credit, I'approvisionnement en inputs agricoles, la
commercialisation des productions;
(g)    appui A l'emergence  d'une capacite d'intermediation  financiere par la creation
d'institutions d'epargne et de credit pour ameliorer le developpement des investissements
agricoles et le reinvestissement;
(h)    soutien  au  developpement de  l'entreprenariat rural par  la  creation  d'unites
manufacturieres (pour la diffusion de technologies adaptees), d'ateliers de reparation et
de maintenance, etc...
(i)    sensibilisation et formation des agriculteurs irrigants sur les problemes de protection de
l'environnement et soutien aux actions de sa preservation.
Structures operationnelles d'ANPIP
4.             Pour les besoins de la gestion du projet, I'ANPIP disposera d'une structure centrale bas6e
A Niamney et d'une Antenne A Maradi.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
Structure centrale du projet
5.             En plus des activites de gestion globale du projet, la structure centrale aura A jouer le role
d'Antenne pour la vallee du fleuve Niger et les dallols situees dans les departement de Tillabery et Dosso.
Cette entite centrale sera dirigee par une personnalite du secteur prive recrute par appel de candidature
international sur la base de competences techniques et institutionnelles, d'integrite morale et de qualites
d'organisateur. II sera un specialiste des questions liees au developpement rural et plus particulierement
en matiere d'irrigation. II sera responsable devant le Conseil d'Administration de I'Agence et le
Gouvernement dans 1'execution du projet conformement A la Convention Etat - ANPIP. II recevra les
pouvoirs les plus etendus du Conseil d'Administration de l'ANPIP pour assurer cette responsabilite dans
la limite des moyens qui seront mis A sa disposition.
6.             La structure centrale comptera, sous l'autorite du Directeur General, 4 departements
anim6s par des cadres de haut niveau technique et travaillant en etroite collaboration
(a)    Departement Communication - Promotion - Evaluation
(b)    Departement Administration et Finances
(c)    Departement Experimentations - Appuis Techniques
7.             Le Departement Communication - Promotion - Evaluation sera responsable de la
diffusion du concept et de la strategie de developpement de l'irrigation privee, de l'organisation des
activites publicitaires et promotionnelles et de l'evaluation interne des performances. L'evaluation des
activites du projet fera l'objet de sous-traitance avec un cabinet specialise exterieur. Le Departement
touchera les beneficiaires des differentes activites par l'utilisation de moyens appropries tels que la
radio/television, des editions, des tables-rondes, des journees portes-ouvertes, etc. Enfin il mettra en
place en sous-traitance avec la Chambre de Commerce d'Agriculture, d'lndustrie et d'Artisanat un
systeme d'information sur les prix et marches.
8.             Le Departement Administration - Finances, s'occupera, dans le cadre d'un manuel de
procedures A elaborer, de la gestion administrative, comptable et financiere du projet ainsi que la gestion
du materiel. II sera responsable en particulier du suivi de la tresorerie et de la preparation A temps des
demandes de decaissement.
9.             Le Departement Experimentation - Appuis Techniques aura la charge de gerer les tests
des materiels prevus A la composante Recherche - Experimentation - Diffusion, de recevoir et de traiter
les demandes d'appuis techniques et juridiques emanant des beneficiaires et institutions de financement,
d'organiser les activites entrant dans le cadre de la protection de l'environnement et de superviser les
contacts de sous-traitance relatifs A ces diff6rents domaines.
Antenne de Maradi
10.            Une antenne sera installee A Maradi et constituera un p6le d'appui essentiel du projet pour
les zones de Goulbis et Korama des regions de Maradi et Zinder respectivement. Elle sera compos6e
d'une equipe reduite de haut niveau et representera la structure centrale dans toutes les branches
d'activites que celle-ci est appelee A mettre en oeuvre: promotion de la strategie et des technologies
adaptees, appuis techniques et juridiques aux irrigants, soutien A la creation d'institutions locales de Credit
et d'epargne, suivi d'impacts sur l'environnement; l'Antenne de Maradi representera le projet aupres des



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
administrations et developpera des relations de synergie avec des projets et ONG agissant dans les memes
zones et poursuivant des objectifs similaires a ceux du PPIP. L'antenne de Maradi aura mandat d'assurer
la supervision de l'execution des contrats d'intervention des structures publiques et ONG dans la mise
en oeuvre des volets du projet.
Personnel du proiet
11.           La mise en oeuvre du projet necessitera du personnel qualifi6 recrute localement en dehors
du Directeur Gen6ral pour lequel I'assiette des prospections sera elargie. L'assistante technique exterieure
comprendra un expert en technologies agricoles et hydrauliques pendant 3 ans et des missions d'appui
de courte duree dans les domaines du suivi des nappes, de la mobilisation de l'information economique
(systeme des prix et marches), et du suivi et evaluation notamment. La liste d6taillee du personnel
permanent figure a appendice I ainsi que l'organigramme du projet et les profils de poste des principaux
responsables du projet. On reserve pour l'expertise exterieure ponctuelle:
(a)    1,5 homme-mois pour l'etude du systeme d'information sur les prix et march6s
(annee 2);
(b)    4,5 homme-mois pour 1'etude d'evaluation independante
(c)    8 homme-mois pour une etude de faisabilite d'une deuxieme phase du projet.
Installation d'ANPIP - movens logistiques et equipements
12.           La structure centrale necessitera un local equipe comprenant 10 bureaux, une salle de
reunion, et divers, totalisant 300 m2. Le projet financera la location, 1'equipement des bureaux, I'achat
de 3 micro-ordinateurs, une machine a photocopier et une machine a ecrire; la logistique comprendra un
vehicule utilitaire, 3 vehicules 4 x 4 (2 SW et 2 PU), ainsi qu'une mobylette. L'Antenne de Maradi
necessitera un local de 120 m2 pour abriter le personnel (5 bureaux, salle de r6union et divers); le projet
financera les meubles, 2 micro-ordinateurs, une machine a ecrire, une photocopieuse et deux vehicules
4 x 4 (1 SW et 1 PU).
Beneficiaires du Proiet - Criteres de Selection
13.           Les beneficiaires directs du projet seront ceux ayant adhere aux objectifs et a la strategie
du developpement de l'irrigation relativement aux orientations technologiques, economiques et
environnementales entre autres. II s'agira principalement:
(a)    d'irrigants professionnels ayant deja investi, ouvertes aux innovations et dont les
exploitations pourraient servir de terrain d'experimentation de technologies, de techniques
de preservation de l'environnement et de suivis divers;
(b)    d'irrigants prives potentiels demandant I'appui de I'ANPIP pour monter des dossiers de
credit ou disposant deja de financement pour la mise en place et l'exploitation
d'investissements;



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
(c)    de 1'entreprenariat rural desireux de developper la diffusion commerciale de technologies
d'irrigation, de transformation et de conservation des produits agricoles, de preservation
de l'environnement, mises au point par la recherche/exp6rimentation et qu'il est possible
de fabriquer localement
(d)    de groupements d'epargne et de credit qui ont choisi de se constituer pour creer
progressivement une capacit6 d'intermediation financiere au profit des investisseurs du
secteur rural essentiellement.
L'information technique et economique (prix, marches) beneficiera a un public etendu d'irrigants prives
en termes de possibilit6 d'amelioration des conditions technologiques et des performances commerciales
dans l'equipement et la gestion des exploitations.
14.            Les criteres de selection qui seront pris en consideration pour le choix des beneficiaires
seront diff6rencies en fonction de la nature des interventions:
(a)    Experimentations - diffusion - demonstration
(i)    S&urite fonciere des exploitations et superficies suffisantes selon les exigences
de chaque intervention;
(ii)   justification de la qualite agronomique des terres, d'une alimentation en eau
suffisante et de qualite acceptable;
(iii)   ouverture aux innovations technologiques
(iv)    acceptation de fournir la main-d'oeuvre pour des operations de test et de
demonstration;
(v)    accord d'une participation active aux travaux de protection de l'environnement
(b)    Montage de dossiers d'investissement:
(i)    qualit6 agronomique des terres, disponibilite et qualite chimique de l'eau
(ii)    acceptation des conditions de pret de la structure de financement (apport
personnel, taux d'interet, garanties, etc...) s'il ne s'agit pas d'un  auto-
financement;
(iii) acceptation d'une contribution aux frais de dossier (1 a 2 %).
(c)    Entrepreneurs ruraux:
(i)    attestation d'un savoir faire minimal dans la fabrication et la commercialisation
de technologies locales;



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
(ii)    respect des normes techniques des produits technologiques issus de  la
recherche/experimentation pour la fabrication en serie et la diffusion;
(d)    Groupements de credit et d'epargne.
Evaluation a mi-parcours du projet
16.            Le systeme d'evaluation du projet comprendra
(a)    les analyses internes de l'equipe du projet a travers les rapports d'activites p6riodes et des
rapports specifiques relatifs a des themes donnes;
(b)    une mission d'evaluation independante qui interviendra en annee 3; et
(c)    une evaluation a mi-parcours qui sera conjointement entreprise par le Gouvernement et
les bailleurs de fonds a la fin de I'annee 3.
17.            La mission d'evaluation a mi-parcours examinera les resultats du projet sur la base des
inputs disponibles (rapports du projet et de 1'evaluation independante), et de sa propre analyse des faits
sur chacune des composantes retenues. Les criteres de performance sur lesquels sera evaluee I'ANPIP
sont les suivants:
(a)    pertinence et taux d'execution des experimentations selectionnees et programmees par le
projet;
(b)    performance des demonstrations (washbore) et taux d'adoption des techniques par les
nouveaux irrigants dans les zones du projet;
(c)    superficies amenagees avec les technologies vulgarisees;
(d)    performance des exploitations gerees avec I'appui de I'ANPIP (rendements, intensites
culturales, comptes d'exploitation...);
(e)    rythme de creation et performances financieres des groupements d'epargne et de credit.
18.            La mission d'evaluation a mi-parcours statuera sur l'opportunite (et les termes de
reference) d'une etude de faisabilite d'une seconde phase pour le projet qui mettra l'accent sur le
developpement agricole base sur les capacites d'intermediation financiere a gerer le credit. Une telle
etude interviendra au debut de l'annee 4 du projet et mobilisera pendant 7 semaines une equipe
pluridisciplinaire composee d'un economiste, un ingenieur d'irrigation, un agronome et un sp6cialiste de
credit. Le Directeur de l'ANPIP apportera son concours a l'equipe chargee de cette etude et traitera plus
particulierement les aspects institutionnels du projet.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
Attachment 1
PERSONNEL DU PROJET
Centre d'activite                Poste                      Profim
A Structure Centrale
Al Direction Generale            Directeur General         Ingenieur d'irrigation
ou Economiste rural
Secretaire de Direction   Secretaire de Direction
A2 Departement Communication     Chef de Ddpartement       Sociologue ou Journaliste
Promotion                                               rural/
Evaluation                                              Promoteur/Animateur
A3 Departement Administration    Chef de Departement       DESS - Comptable
Finances                     Comptable                  DUT - Comptable
A4 Departement Experimentation    Chef de Departement      Hydro-geologue/Expert en
technologie d' irrigation
A5 Personnel d'Appui             1 Secr6taire-dactylo
4 Chauffeurs, 1 Planton
1 Gardien
B Antenne de Maradi              Chef d'Antenne            Agronome/Ingenieur
1 Secretaire-comptable    en Genie Rural
2 Chauffeurs              DUT/Constrictions metalliques
1 Gardien                 DUT-Secr6tariat/gestion



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 5
PROFIL DE POSTE DES PRINCIPAUX
RESPONSABLES DU PROJET
1. Poste Directeur General
IntitulI du poste: Directeur General de l'ANPIP
Rattachement  Conseil d'Administration de 1'ANPIP
Taches  -    gerer le Projet de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee conformement aux clauses de la
convention ETAT-ANPIP et aux termes de l'Accord de credit IDA et de la Convention
de Financement CFD;
mettre en place les moyens prevus pour 1'execution du projet, notamment le recrutement
du personnel permanent et des consultants, I'acquisition des equipements de logistique
et materiels de bureau dans les conditions de concurrence appropriees;
coordonner les activites du projet au plan interne et en liaison avec les administrations
concernees, les Bailleurs de fonds, les ONG, les institutions bancaires, etc.;
assurer le suivi d'ensemble des activites du projet et preparer les rapports periodiques
correspondants;
repondre a toute interpellation dont pourrait faire l'objet le Projet, de la part du
Gouvernement, des co-financiers et autres institutions dans le domaine de la production
de l'information;
promouvoir, par le developpement des echanges, la synergie entre le Projet et des
operations similaires au Niger et dans la sous-region.
Formation  Ingenieur du Genie Rural, Agronome d'irrigation, economiste rural.
Experience  Dix ans d'experience minium dans la Direction de Structures privees, parapubliques ou
projets dans les domaines de l'irrigation en priorite, du developpement rural en general; capacite
d'organisation et de gestion et maitrise satisfaisante de la connaissance des politiques et des institutions
de developpement du Niger.
Dur&e du poste: 2 ans renouvelable une fois.
Lieu d'affectation: Niamey, avec deplacements frequents a l'interieur du Niger.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 12
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 5
2. Poste du Chef du Departement Communication-Promotion-Evaluation
Intitul6 du poste: Chef du Departement Communication-Promotion-Evaluation de l'ANPIP.
Rattachement: Directeur General de l'ANPIP.
Taches  -    eaborer la methodologie de diffusion du concept et de la strategie de developpement de
l'irrigation privee, sous la forme d'un plan national de sensibilisation et d'information;
-    mettre en oeuvre le plan national d'explication du concept et des regles du jeu en matiere
de promotion de l'irrigation privee;
-    evaluer le feed back des groupes cibles vises par l'information et la sensibilisation;
-    organiser des manifestations promotionnelles (tables-rondes, journees portes-ouvertes...)
et publicitaires;
-    participer au suivi general du projet;
-    concourir a l'eIaboration des rapports d'activit6s du projet;
Formation: Journaliste ou sociologue rural.
Experience   au moins six ans de pratique effective de la profession de communicateur dans des
op6rations de developpement rural de preference.
Duree du poste: 2 ans.
Lieu d'affectation: Niamey, avec des d6placements a l'interieur du pays.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 12
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 5
3. Poste de Chef du Departement Administration-Finances
IntituI du poste: Chef du Departement Administration-Finances de l'ANPIP.
Rattachement  Directeur General de I'ANPIP.
Tfiches  -    mettre en oeuvre le manuel de procedures de gestion administrative, financiere et
comptable a la Direction Generale et a l'Antenne de Maradi;
informatiser le systeme de gestion du projet qui comportera un suivi analytique des
activites;
preparer le budget annuel et superviser sa mise en application;
assurer la gestion administrative du personnel et du materiel de I'ANPIP, ainsi que celle
des contrats de fournitures d'equipements et de services;
preparer les demandes de remboursement et de payements et assurer leur envoi a temps
aux bailleurs de fonds;
elaborer les rapports administratifs, comptables et financiers devant alimenter les rapports
d'activites ou necessaires aux contr6le d'audit;
-    preparer et faciliter 1'execution des audits du projet;
Formation  dipl6me superieur d'etudes comptables et financiere (DESC).
Experience minimum 6 ans d'experience en gestion administrative, financieres et comptable d'un projet
de developpement rural et maitrise de l'outil informatique.
Dur&e du poste: 2 ans renouvelable une fois.
Lieu d'affectation: Niamey, avec des deplacements a Maradi et Zinder.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
4. Poste de Chef du D6partement Experimentations-Appuis Techniques
Intitule du poste: Chef du Departement Experimentation-Appuis Techniques de I'ANPIP.
Rattachement: Directeur Gen6ral de I'ANPIP.
Taches (en liaison avec son equipe):
-    mener les investigations necessaires A l'identification des differentes technologies et
systemes d'irrigation qui feront l'objet de test, de mise au point et de promotion
commerciale;
-    proceder, sur la base de criteres rigoureux, A la s6lection des sites d'experimentation, de
d6monstration, de lutte contre la degradation de 1'environnement;
-    identifier les points d'implantation du suivi piezometrique, ainsi que celui de l'evolution
pedologique (des sols) et chimique (de l'eau des nappes sollicitees);
-    conduire les operations d'experimentation, de protection de l'environnement et de
diffusion commerciale, ainsi que de suivi des effets environnementaux;
-    organiser les actions d'appuis techniques en faveur d'irrigants priv6s qui en feraient la
demande, notamment en matiere d'etudes (dossiers d'investissement), de mise en valeur
hydraulique et agricole, ou de gestion d'exploitation;
-    repondre aux demandes d'avis techniques d'institutions de credit;
-    mettre en place et suivre le systeme d'information sur les prix et marches;
-    pr6parer les termes de reference pour les etudes necessaires et le recrutement de
consultants d'appuis;
-    61aborer et mettre en oeuvre les programmes de formation requis;
-    contribuer au suivi technique general du projet;
-    participer A 1'e1aboration des rapports periodiques.
Formation  Ingenieur du Genie Rural ou Agro-GR.
Experience  huit ans d'experience dans les domaines des technologies, des etudes, des travaux et de la
gestion de l'irrigation.
Dur&e du poste: 2 ans renouvelable une fois.
Lieu d'affectation: Niamey, avec de frequents deplacement A l'interieur du pays.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 12
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 5
5. Poste de Chef d'Antenne de Maradi
Intitule du poste: Chef d'Antenne Regionale de l'ANPIP de Maradi.
Rattachement: Directeur General de l'ANPIP.
Tfiches (en collaboration avec son equipe regionale)
-    assurer la gestion administrative et financiere de l'Antenne;
-    epauler le Chef du Departement Communication-Promotion-Evaluation dans ses taches
de diffusion de la strategie de promotion de l'irrigation privee au niveau des regions de
Maradi et de Zinder;
-    superviser les experimentations et activites de suivi piezometrique, pedologique et
chimique dans sa zone de responsabilite apres avoir activement contribue a l'identification
des sites, groupes-cibles et personnes-ressources;
-    conduire les activites de promotion des technologies dans les Goulbi et Korama;
-    mener les actions de formation des artisans qui auront ete prealablement selectionnes;
-    repondre aux demandes d'appuis techniques d'irrigants dans le domaine des etudes
techniques et economiques, de la formation technique et en gestion des exploitions, ou
de conseils ponctuels sur les materiels adaptes et les systemes de distribution efficients;
-    6eaborer les rapports d'activites de l'Antenne;
-    participer au suivi gen6ral du projet.
Formation  Agronome d'irrigation/Agro-economiste.
Exp6rience  8 ans d'experience dans la gestion de projet d'irrigation ou de developpement rural, dans
les domaines de l'encadrement, la vulgarisation, les etudes techniques et economiques.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Cost Suimmary
X     X Total
(CFAF '000)         _        s   O            Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    LocaL  For notoal  Exchanae  CosLs
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
REHAB. SAVINGS & LOANS OFFICES      30,480.0  76,110.0 106,590.0    51.7  129.0   180.7          71        3
B. GOODS
VEHICLES                                   - 244,795.1 244,795.1        -  414.9   414.9        100        6
EQUIPEMENT & MOBILIER DE BUREAU    36,771.5 142,831.2 179,602.7   62.3  242.1   304.4            80        5
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                       - 456,275.2 456,275.2        -   773.3   773.3       100       12
FENCING                                    -                            -       -
TOOLS, MATERIALS & SUPPLIES         46.631.1 116.440.2 163.071.3   79.0   197.4  276.4           71        4
Subtotal GOODS                         83,402.6 960,341.7 1,043,744   141.4 1,627.7 1,769.1         92 ....27
C. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
1. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT BY NGOs 127,346.7 494,652.2 621,998.9   215.8  838.4 1,054.2           80       16
2. OTHER CONSULTANTS                16       254.206.3 271.173.4    28.8  430.9  459.6 _6        94         7
Subtotal CONSULTANTS' SERVICES        144,313.8 748,858.5 893,172.:3  244.6 1,269.3 1,513.9                  23
D. PPF                                104I800.0 309.160.0 413.960.0   177 6   524.0  701.6
Totat Investment Costs                    362,996.4 2,094,470 2,457,467   615.2 3,549.9 4,165.2         85
1I. Recurrent Costs
A. MISCELLANEOUS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (ANPIP)         401,355.6          - 401,355.6  680.3        -   680.3                  10
B. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES                132,887.7  94,807.7 227,695.4  225.2  160.7  385.9            42         6
C. NGO - INCREMENTAL PERSONNEL COSTS 384,183.9           - 384,183.9  651.2         -  651.2         -        10
D. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                  123,005.3          -123,005.3  208.5          -  208.5         -         3
E. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS        125.225.0 112.248.7 237.473.8   212.2   190.3  402.5          47
Total Recurrent Costs                     1.166.658 207.056.4 1373 714  977 4   350.9   -  328.    15-
Total BASELINE COSTS                       1,529,654 2,301,527            ,31,181   59Z.6    6,493.5     60       10
PhysicaL Contingencies                    88,165.5 177,712.2 265,877.7   149.4  301.2   450.6          67         7
Price Contingencies                      242.162.9  77.836.9 319I999.8   410.4_ 131.9  542.4           24         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,859,982 2,557,076 4,417,058 3,152.5 4,334.0 7,486.5         58      115
Fri Jan 27 11:18:46 1995



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Component by Year
Base Cost (CFAF '000)                            ase Cost CUSS  000          _
95796      96/97     97/98      98/99      Total    95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   Totatl
1. PRIVATE PROJECT MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(ANPIP)                              421,555.3 257,083.6 233,992.9 264,439.1 1,177,071   714.5   435.7   396.6   448.2 1,995.0
2. SMALL-SCALE MECHANIZED
IRRIGATION                           639,378.4 143,437.5 144,917.4 146,397.3 1,074,131 1,083.7   243.1   245.6   248.1 1,820.6
3. IMPROVED MANUAL IRRIGATION           169,910.5 112,995.2 101,182.7  70,318.4 454,406.7   288.0   191.5   171.5   119.2   770.2
4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION              62,194.8  39,769.2  43,222.7  43,222.7 188,409.4   105.4    67.4    73.3    73.3   319.3
5. SAVINGS AND CREDIT SCHEMES           92,618.6 196,801.1 121,111.5 112,671.8 523,202.9   157.0   333.6   205.3   191.0   886.8
6. PPF REFINANCING                     413  960                            -    -413960.0   7019.Z          -    -            -    01;6
otat BASELINE COSTS                       1, 99,1  70866442.23,493,31,181 3,0_50.2 1,7.   ,022109.   ,9.
Physical Contingencies                   120,284.7  53,708.3  46,033.2  45,851.4 265,877.7   203.9    91.0    78.0    77.7   450.6
Price Contingencies
Infltat ion
Local                                36,754.4  60,420.4  68,293.2  76,694.9 242,162.9    62.3   102.4   115.8   130.0   410.4
Foreign                              14.169.0  15.545.8  20 106.8  28.015.3  77.836.9    2            26.3    34.1    47.5   131.9
Subtotal Inflation                     50,923.4  75,966.2  88,400.0 104,710.2 319,.99.8    86.3   128.8   149.8   177.5   542.4
DevaLuation                                                            
Suibtotal Price Contingencies             50.923.4  75.966.2  88 400 0 104.710.2 319.999.          .     128.8   149.8   177       54i.
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,970,826 879,761.0 778,860.4 787,610.9 4,417,058 3,340.4 1,491.1 1, 20.1 1,4.9 7,486.5
Taxes                                      2,112.7   2,218.8   2,273.0   2,318.5   8,922.9         3.6     3.8      3.9      3.9    15.1
Foreign Exchange                         1,456,848 426,674.1 335,469.1 338,084.0 2,557,076 2,469.2   723.2   568.6   573.0 4,334.0
Fri Jan 27 11:19:54 1995



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE RRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Component by Year
TotaLs IncLuding Contingencies (LSS
Totals Includina Continaencies (CFAF '000)                           0001
95/96     96f97      97/98      98/99     Total    95/96   96/97   97/98   98f99  .1tal
1. PRIVATE PROJECT MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(ANPIP)                             474,367.3 301,270.7 281,423.6 323,582.3 1,380,644   804.0   510.6   477.0   548.4 2,340.1
2. SMALL-SCALE MECHANIZED
IRRIGATION                          712,440.6 165,363.9 171,191.6 176,900.4 1,225,896 1,207.5   280.3   290.2   299.8 2,077.8
3. IMPROVED MANUAL IRRIGATION          192,422.8 134,166.5 123,837.1  89,324.8 539,751.2   326.1   227.4   209.9   151.4   914.8
4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION             69,904.5  46,090.9  51,404.1  52,604.0 220,003.5   118.5    78.1    87.1    89.2   372.9
5. SAVINGS AND CREDIT SCHEMES          107,730.5 232,869.1 151,004.1 145,199.5 636,803.1   182.6   394.7   255.9   246.1 1,079.3
6. PPF REFINANCING                    413,960.0           -          -         -    .9        701.6        -                -   701.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1,970,826 879,761.0 778,860.4 787,610.9 4,417,05  3,340.4 1,491.1 1,320.1 1,334.9    8
Fri Jan 27 11:20:03 1995



ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Schedule of Project Expenditures
Foreign
Base Cost (CFAF '000)                            Base Cost (US* '000)                 Exchange
95/96     96/97      97/98      98/99      TotaL    95/96   96/97   97/98   9899   Total           X    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
REHAB. SAVINGS & LOANS OFFICES        11,724.9  18,120.3  34,108.8  42,636.0 106,590.0    19.9    30.7    57.8    72.3   180.7    71.4   129.0
B. GOODS
VEHICLES                             238,198.9   3,298.1   3,298.1             - 244,795.1   403.7       5.6      5.6        -   414.9   100.0   414.9
EQUIPEMENT & MOBILIER DE BUREAU   101,250.6  33,083.4  21,932.8  23,335.9 179,602.7   171.6    56.1    37.2    39.6   304.4    79.5   242.1
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                 442,956.0   2,959.8   4,439.8   5,919.7 456,275.2   750.8          5.0      7.5    10.0  m7.3   100.0   773.3
FENCING                                       -          -          -          -          -       -        -        -       -        -        -
TOOLS, MATERIALS & SUPPLIES           71.779.1  38.370.3  30.964.4  21.957.5 163.071.3   121.7    65.0    52.5    37.2   276.4    71.4   197.4
Subtotal GOODS                          854,184.6  77,711.6  60,635.0  51,213.1 1,043,744 1,447.8   131.7   102.8    86.8 1,769.1    92.0 1,627.7
C. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
1. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT BY NGOs 144,608.5 244,128.6 129,987.4 103,274.4 621,998.9   245.1   413.8   220.3   175.0 1,054.2    79.5   838.4
2. OTHER CONSULTANTS                  50.488.0  65.442.8  68.487.4 _86755.2 271.173.4    85.6   110.9   116.1   147.0  452.6    93.7   430.9
Subtotal CONSULTANTS' SERVICES           195,096.5 309,571.4 198,474.9 190,029.5 893,172.3   330.7   524.7   336.4   322.1 1,513.9    83.8 1,269.3
D. PPF                                  413.960.0           -          -          - 413.960.0   701.6         -        -        -   701.6    74.7   524.0
Total Investment Costs                       1,474,966 405,403.3 293,218.7 283,878.6 2,457,467 2,499.9   687.1   497.0   481.2 4,165.2    85.2 3,549.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. MISCELLANEOUS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (ANPIP)           100,053.1 100,434.1 100,434.1 100,434.1 401,355.6   169.6   170.2   170.2   170.2   680.3                -        -
B. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES                   56,923.9  56,923.9  56,923.9  56,923.9 227,695.4    96.5    96.5    96.5    96.5   385.9    41.6   160.7
C. NGO - INCREMENTAL PERSONNEL COSTS  83,531.7  95,213.2 101,738.4 103,700.6 384,183.9   141.6   161.4   172.4   175.8   651.2                   -        -
D. TRAVEL ALLOUANCES                      24,774.4  32,743.6  32,743.6  32,743.6 123,005.3    42.0    55.5    55.5    55.5   208.5               -        -
E. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS            59.368.   59.368.4  59.368.4  59.368.4 237.473.8   100.6   100.6   100.6   100.6   402.5    47.3   190.3
Total Recurrent Costs                        324.651.5 344.683.3                         1 373 714   550,3   584.2   595.3  598.6                 15.1   350.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                          1,799,618 750,086.6 644,427.2 637,049.3 3,83,8i T3, 050.2 1,271.3 1,092.2 1,079.7 6,493.5    60.1 3,900.9
PhysicaL Contingencies                      120,284.7  53,708.3  46,033.2  45,851.4 265,877.7   203.9    91.0    78.0    77.7   450.6    66.8   301.2
Price Contingencies
Inflation
LocaL                                   36,754.4  60,420.4  68,293.2  76,694.9 242,162.9    62.3   102.4   115.8   130.0   410.4                -        -
Foreign                                 14.169.0  15 545 8  20.106.8  28,015.3   77836.9    24.0    26.3    34.1    47.5   131.9   100.0   131.9
Subtotal Inflation                         50,923.4  75,966.2  88,400.0 104,710.2 319,999.8    86.3   128.8   149.8   177.5   542.4    24.3   131.9
Devaluation                                       -          -                                                                            -        -        -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                 50.923.4  75.966.2  88.400.0 104.710.2 319.999.8    86.3   128.8   149.8   177.5   542.4    24.3   131.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1,970,826 879,761.0 778,860.4 787,610.9 4,417,058 3,340.4 1,491.1 1,320.1 1,334.9 7,486.5    57.9 4,334.0
Taxes                                         2,112.7   2,218.8   2,273.0   2,318.5   8,922.9          3.6     3.8      3.9      3.9    15.1         -        -
Foreign Exchange                            1,456,848 426,674.1 335,469.1 338,084.0 2,557,076 2,469.2   723.2   568.6   573.0 4,334.0
Fri Jan 27 11:20:27 1995



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Schedule of Project Expenditures
Totals Including Conting ncfes (USS
Totals Including Contingencies (CFAF '000)                        '00)
f9/96     96/97     97/98      98t99     Total    95/6   96/97   97/98   98/99   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
REHAB. SAVINGS & LOANS OFFICES      13,984.5  22,317.9  43,053.1  55,078.9 134,434.3    23.7    37.8    73.0    93.4   227.9
S. GOOOS
VEHICLES                           265,294.1   3,765.1   3,859.2           - 272,918.4   449.7      6.4     6.5       -   462.6
EQUIPEMENT & MOBILIER DE BUREAU   114,733.2  38,632.5  26,248.7  28,595.0 208,209.4   194.5    65.5    44.5    48.5   352.9
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT               493,342.2   3,378.9  5,195.1   7,100.0 509,016.2   836.2         5.7     8.8    12.0  862.7
FENCING                                     -         -                    - -               -        -       -       -        -
TOOLS, MATERIALS & SUPPLIES         81.890.0  45.204.0  37.384.8  27132.3 191,.611.2   138.8    76.6   63.4   46.0   324.8
Subtotal GOODS                        955,259.5  90,980.6  72,687.8  62,827.3 1,181,755 1,619.1   154.2   123.2    06 2,003.0
C. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
1. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT BY NGOs 160,885.3 279,893.5 152,737.7 124,248.1 717,764.6   272.7   474.4   258.9  210.6 1,216.6
2. OTHER CONSULTANTS                55.502.  73.864.0  79.229.9 102 .837.4 311.434.0    94 1   125.2  134.3   174.3   527.9
Subtotal CONSULTANTS' SERVICES        216,388.0 353,757.5 231,967.6 227,085.5 1,029,199   3          66 . 599.6 393.     9 1,79.
D. PPF                                413.960.0                     -         - 413 960.0   701.         -        -       -   701.
Total Investment Costs                    1,599,592 467,055.9 37,708.44 344,991.7  2,759,348 2791.6  393                     7 4,676.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. MISCELLANEOUS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (ANPIP)         115,423.8 121,682.6 124,655.9 127,149.1 488,911.3   195.6   206.2   211.3  215.5  828.7
8. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES                 63,523.7  66,078.6  67,707.9  69,194.4 266,504.6   107.7   112.0   114.8   117.3  451.7
C. NGO - INCREMENTAL PERSONNEL COSTS  99,117.5 118,652.9 129,882.6 135,035.3 482,688.4   168.0   201.1   220.1   228.9  818.1
D. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                   27,219.4  37,782.0  38,705.2  39,479.3 143,185.9   46.1    64.0    65.6   66.9  242.7
E. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS         65 949.3  68.509.0  70i204  71.61.1  76.419 .1161   119.0   11    6
TotaL Recurrent Costs                     371.233.6 412.705.1 431 1520 44.619         65   10            6 9905   3        5
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                                      786 879,761.0 778                                             ,86. 78.9583,  1
Fri Jan 27 11:20:48 1995



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the IDA Credit
IDA                             Disbursements /a                        Cumulative %
Fiscal Year         Semester         Semester Amount       Cumulative        Disbursed
1995       December 94                   0.7               0.7                10
L___________  June 95                         0.8                1.5                30
1996       December 95                   0.7               2.2                33
June 96                      0.7                2.9                42
1997       December 96                   0.9               3.8                56
June 97                       1.0               4.8                70
1998       December 97                   0.6               5.4                79
June 98                      0.5                5.9                87
1999       December 98                   0.3               6.2                91
June 99                      0.3                6.5                96
2000       December 99                   0.2                6.7               98
June 2000                    0.1                6.8               100
/a Assumptions:       Board approval planned for July 7, 1994.
Effectiveness planned for December 94.
Closing Date is December 31, 1999.



_NIGEIIt
_  Pllol Privael Irrigation Plromotion P roject                       
- -  -  -Implemnenlaillon Plan-
3 _1          1994             1395            1234               1  !97          1234              1234
_  ____  _       =       _   ~~~~~_   3   4  --  2    3  4+  --    2 -3   4  _'  2  3   -4  __1  -    3   4    1  :2 -3   4         I       3       4
A&PIP Set-u                                                  --- -         -- --p----          --- -_--_--__                  __
Negotiations  ____________  ______________________________
floard  Approval  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Effectiveness
Supervision                                                                            --- =   ---  --    ---    -   -   -   --     --     --     ---     ---  ---  ---  ---    ---  --   - |
R&D: Small-Scala Machan. and Manual Tech.                                              ----   -   -
T.A,. Beneficiaries (improved manual irrig. techn.)                                    ---------     --     - --------   -   -   -   -
T,A and Training: Savings & Credit Program
Environmental Monitoring                                                              ---------     --     - --------   -   -   -   -
Studies:
- Price & Market Info. Systems                                   ---  --  --
- Project Performance Review
- Land Tenure & User's Guide                                                            --- ---
- Full Evaluation. 8 Feasibility Study for Future Subsector
Investments
Mid-term Review
End Operations
Closing Data



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
NIGER
Pilot Private Irrigation Promoticn Project
Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate.0ates                                                                              Staff-Jnput
(mth.Iyr.)                      Activity                  Expected Skill Requirements  (staff weeks)
12194-1/95            Project launch wcrks,hcp                Task Manager                                2
Prccurement Specialist                     2
( provide assistance .n
prccurement and ;r:iect !aunch)
45195                 Supervision                              Task Manager                               2
Rural Finance Specialist                   2
(review initial implementation
issues with ANPIP, consulting
services and teneficiaries)
8-9/95                Supervisicn                              Task Manager                               2
(evaluate technical                     AgronomistIrrigation Engine.                2
and instituticnal components)            Institutional Specialist                   3
12/95-1196            Supervisicn                             Task Manager                                2
(review progress of program of          Agronomis/Irrigation Enginew                2
tests and consu'ting work on            Lawyer (Land Tenure Specialist)             2
land tenure)
4196-5/96             Supervisicn                                                                         2
(Full supervision mission)              Agronomist/Irrigafton rnginewr              2
Institutional Specialist                   2
81W9-9/96             Mid-Term Review                         Task Manager                                3
(comprehensive review of                Agronomist/lrrigation Engineer              3
implementation performance              Rural Finance Specialist                    3
since effectiveness)                     Institutional Specialist                   3
12J96-1/97           Supervision                              Task Manager                                2
(review progres; in implementing
-ction plan of mid-term review)
Supervision                             Agronomistlirrigation Enginer               2
4/97-5197             (evaluate technical program and         Acccunt/Audit Specialist                    2
financial management system)
1998                 2 supervisions                           Task Manager                                2
(Full supervision missions              Agronomist/Irrigation Enginr                2
and review of studies)
1999                 2 Supervision Missions                   Task Manager                                3
(Full supervision mission and           Agronomist/lrrigation Enginee               2
review of TORs for flnal studies);      Institutional Specialist                    2
and Prcject Completion                  Prvate Sectr Oev. Specialist                3
preparation



AGEMI                 IY                                                                                                                        s                   LIBYA
The boundaries, colors,
denomanotions and  ony
MAU    |  NIGER  I      other mformot,on shown 
on  this m   do  not
<   g CHAD    Inmply, On  the port of
-tNsoner                             The World  Bank  Group,                     A  L G  E R I A
usa                             a~~J 8t   ony judgment on the legal
tsatus of any territory,
or any endorsement
or ac:eptance of such
o Xb, |          H       A               bo.undaries.
NMEON       IE   G E 
NIGER/ 
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Areas
PROJECT AREAS:
1      DALLOL BOSSO
2      DALLOL MOURI
3      GOULBI DE MARADI
4      GOULBI N'KABA                                                                                       AGADEZ
5       KORAMAS
6      VALLEE FLEUVE NIGER                                                                                                                        B d
.-  PAVED ROADS
EARTH ROADS
RIVERS
o        SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                        L          ' 
(3  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS 
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          1, G.I1seR/                                                          1  
ISOHYETS IN MM                                                     t                                                                            -/
_ ~~~~DEPARTMAENT BOUNDARIES/  ,, / _
NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                      !.-                                        
T . Tod K,-,,d                  I'B ngue          TAHOUA 
\~~~~~~~0  I. 6    u lnDksoSb-k.0>                                                                                                                   Ngu gmj    g
\ero   )MK   Eeleyorg     Dogondoutthl  Nk... O                               MhNy.h                        O         ,
,+-~~~~~ _ ~~MAFADI                     {          ( Z NDER_ ,
ibNAMEY  Is I;    "wg)4                                                                   Tbtg'                                          DFA9
Y'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
^*  27                                                                                                                         1     \>'.          .   '^ _~~~~T K.
>~Xuo   s                             t   5bo.g KoFILOMETERS                                                                                                                                               C
--, 7 P SJ F} r, t 1 - .   T  3   n r F   r U .   , t  .   ,,                                         MILES   |        |        |        |              8,   \               2  G)~~~~~~MILE
4    1   {   _,  >  e  *  {  I  e C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
v  e   ^  I                                        I                                                 I                               )       \          I  _  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



