Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2707 NIR
                 Development Credit Agreement
         (Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
                            between
                       REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                              and
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated July 24, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2707 NIR
                 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                           ARTICLE I
                General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
Page  2
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ANPIP" means Agence Nigerienne pour la Promotion de
l'Irrigation Privee, an association created on July 1, 1992, in
accordance with the Borrower's Ordonnance, No. 84-06, of
March 1, 1984;
     (b)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Convention" means the agreement between the Borrower
and ANPIP for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project as referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Initial Deposit" means the deposit referred to in
Section 3.04;
     (e)  "Procedures Manual" means the manual of procedures
that is attached to the Convention, forms an integral part
thereof, and sets out the procedures governing the
implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project;
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
by letter dated June 29, 1990; and
     (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                          ARTICLE II
                          The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
Page  3
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2005 and ending January 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Page  4
                          ARTICLE III
                   Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part D of the Project with due
               diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
               appropriate financial, administrative and
               environmental practices, and shall provide,
               promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
               services and other resources required for Part
               D of the Project;
          (ii) shall cause ANPIP to carry out Parts A, B, C
               and E of the Project with due diligence and
               efficiency and in conformity with the
               Convention and appropriate financial,
               administrative and irrigation practices; and
         (iii) shall take or cause to be taken all
               action, including the provision of funds,
               facilities, services and other resources,
               necessary or appropriate to enable ANPIP to
               carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project,
               and shall not take or permit to be taken any
               action which would prevent or interfere with
               the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and E of the
               Project by ANPIP.
     Section 3.02 Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 above, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement
with ANPIP (the Convention) for the implementation by ANPIP of
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association which shall include the terms
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of
Section 3.01, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budget
amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to
the costs of the Project; (ii) open and maintain until the
completion of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association; (iii) deposit
into the Project Account an initial amount in CFAF equivalent
to $175,000 (the Initial Deposit); (iv) thereafter at annual
intervals following the deposit of the Initial Deposit, deposit
into the Project Account an amount equivalent to the Initial
Deposit or any other amount required for further implementation
of the Project as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association; and (v) ensure that the amounts deposited in the
Project Account will be used exclusively for the Borrower's
counterpart expenditures under the Project and are included in
the Borrower's public expenditure program.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower (i) shall present and shall
cause ANPIP to present, each for those Parts of the Project for
the implementation of which it is responsible, not later than
June 30 of each year, present a work program and budget for the
coming calendar year, to the Association for approval, and (ii)
shall take and cause ANPIP to take all necessary action
required for the implementation of said work programs and
budgets as approved by the Association.
Page  5
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall monitor and cause ANPIP
to monitor the implementation of the Project and in particular
shall, and shall cause ANPIP to, each for those Parts of the
Project for the implementation of which it is responsible:
          (i)  submit to the Borrower (for ANPIP only) and the
               Association within two months from the end of
               each calendar quarter a progress report on the
               implementation of the relevant Parts of the
               Project in a format approved by the
               Association.
          (ii) organize and carry out semi-annual joint review
               meetings with the Borrower (for ANPIP only) and
               the Association. The quarterly progress reports
               shall provide the basic inputs for a semi-
               annual progress report to be presented to the
               Association in a format acceptable to the
               Association and to be reviewed at these
               meetings. As part of each review the Borrower
               and ANPIP shall prepare a program of action,
               satisfactory to the Association, to deal with
               deficiencies in Project implementation
               identified during the review.
         (iii) promptly after each review mentioned in
               paragraph (ii) above, take all necessary action
               required for the implementation of the program
               of action referred to in said paragraph.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
carry out a mid-term review of the Project towards the end of
the second twelve month period following the Effective Date, or
at any other time as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association. At least two weeks prior to such review the
Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association all
necessary documentation for the evaluation of the Project. The
terms of reference of this review shall be acceptable to the
Association and shall include an assessment of inter alia: (i)
progress made in achieving key Project objectives; (ii)
implementation of the adapted technology program; (iii) the
rural credit program; (iv) the performance of ANPIP; (v) the
performance of the technical assistance; and (vi) the need to
adjust Project design in the light of the implementation
experience.
     In addition, as part of the review, the Borrower shall
prepare a program of action, satisfactory to the Association,
to deal with deficiencies in Project implementation identified
during the review.
     (b)  Promptly after the review mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall take, or shall cause to be taken, all
necessary action required for the implementation of the program
of action referred to in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
     (c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
Page  6
                          ARTICLE IV
                      Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ANPIP to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of ANPIP.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause ANPIP to:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those
               for the Special Account for each quarter of the
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
               the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than three
               months after the end of each such quarter, a
               certified copy of the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other
               information concerning said records, accounts
               and the audit thereof as the Association shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account for Parts A, B, C and E of
the Project were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
               records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Association has received the audit report for
               the quarter in which the last withdrawal from
               the Credit Account or payment out of the
               Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Association's representatives
               to examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in each quarterly audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part D of the Project.
Page  7
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related statements) and
               the records and accounts for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than three
               months after the end of each such year, (A)
               certified copies of its financial statements
               for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
               of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other
               information concerning such records, accounts,
               financial statements and the audit thereof as
               the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account for Part D of the Project
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
               this Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
               has received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
               Account or payment out of the Special Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Association's representatives
               to examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                           ARTICLE V
                  Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Borrower or ANPIP shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Convention;
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Borrower or ANPIP will be able to perform their respective
Page  8
obligations under the Convention;
     (c)  Any of the following shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ANPIP to implement
Parts A, B, C, and E of the Project in accordance with this
Agreement:
          (i)  ANPIP's statutes dated July 1, 1992;
         (ii)  the Convention; and
         (iii) the Borrower's Ordonnance, No. 84-06, of
               March 1, 1984; and
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ANPIP or for the suspension of its
operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
                          ARTICLE VI
                  Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower shall have enacted and promulgated
legislation establishing a legal regime for Groupements
d'Interet Economique enabling the organization of farmers into
economic interest groups;
     (b)  the Convention in form and substance acceptable to
the Association shall have been signed by the Borrower and
ANPIP;
     (c)  the Borrower and ANPIP shall each have established a
financial management and accounting system for the Project,
acceptable to the Association;
     (d)  the Borrower and ANPIP shall each have submitted to
the Association their annual work program and budget for the
first twelve months after the Effective Date and acceptable to
the Association;
     (e)  the Borrower and ANPIP shall have signed a multi-year
contract with an auditor for the auditing of the Project and
ANPIP's accounts, acceptable to the Association;
     (f)  the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account
and deposited the Initial Deposit therein; and
     (g)  the Borrower and ANPIP shall have submitted to the
Association a procurement plan, acceptable to the Association,
covering the procurement required for the implementation of the
Project.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Convention has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ANPIP, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANPIP in accordance
Page  9
with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE VII
          Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
             et du Plan
          B.P. 389
          Niamey
          Niger
                                   Telex:
                                     5463
                                     5337
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                      197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                    By  /s/ Amadou Seydou
                                     Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By  /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                       Regional Vice President
                                                        Africa
                          SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Vehicles,             270,000      100%
    equipment,
    materials
    and spare
    parts
(2) Consultants'        3,020,000      100%
    services, training
    and studies
(3) Operating costs       340,000      60%
(4) Refunding of          470,000      Amounts due pur-
    Project                            suant to Section
    Preparation                        2.02 (c) of this
    Advance                            Agreement
(5) Unallocated           500,000
                        _________
       TOTAL            4,600,000
                        =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating
costs" means incremental Project related recurrent costs for,
inter alia, travel allowances, materials, supplies as well as
the operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and
offices.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                  Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to promote the
development of private irrigation.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   ANPIP/Studies
1.   The development of the organization of ANPIP with a view
to its delivery of a package of services to private irrigators.
2.   The carrying out of the following studies:
     (a)  a review of the existing legal and regulatory
framework of land tenure and the design of a user's guide on
Page  11
how to strengthen tenurial security;
     (b)  the design of improved price and market information
systems, including follow-up actions to establish such a system
in ANPIP;
     (c)  a comprehensive review of over-all Project
performance to be used as an input for the mid-term review and
the final evaluation of the Project; and
     (d)  a pre-feasibility study on future investment
opportunities in the irrigation subsector including an
assessment of the impact of irrigation production on the fauna
and flora and potential riparian issues.
Part B:   Small-scale Mechanized Irrigation
     The testing and dissemination of simple, low-cost
mechanized irrigation technologies.
Part C:   Manual Irrigation
     The testing and dissemination of manual irrigation
technology packages and the strengthening of local capacity to
manufacture, maintain and repair these technologies and related
irrigation equipment.
Part D:   Environmental Protection
     The monitoring of shallow aquifer levels and soil and
water quality.
Part E:   Savings and Credit Schemes
     The design, testing and promotion of instruments for the
provision of financial services to rural clients.
                             * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                          SCHEDULE 3
             Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles, office equipment and furniture, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured:
(a) through the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office; or (b) under contracts, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for materials, supplies as well as for the
operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and offices
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract, may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers,
Page  12
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $ 100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
Page  13
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                          SCHEDULE 4
          Terms of the Convention Required Pursuant
                        to Section 3.02
     The Convention shall be for a term of four years and shall
include the following:
1.   The obligation of the Borrower to transfer the proceeds of
the Credit required for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and
E of the Project on a non-reimbursable basis to ANPIP;
2.   the obligation of ANPIP to: (i) carry out Parts A, B, C,
and E of the Project in accordance with the Convention; (ii) to
restrict the implementation to aforementioned Parts of the
Project to the departments of Tillaberi, Dosso, Maradi and
Zinder unless the Borrower and the Association agree otherwise;
and (iii) adopt, not later than September 30, 1995, a time-
bound action program, acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, for the implementation of Part E of the Project,
and subsequently take, or cause to be taken, all necessary
action required for the implementation of said action program,
unless the Borrower and the Association agree otherwise;
3.   the obligation of ANPIP to: (i) comply with the
recordkeeping, accounting, auditing and reporting requirements
set out in Article IV of this Agreement; (ii) maintain, for the
duration of the Project, the financial management and
accounting system referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement; (iii) retain, for the duration of the Project an
independent auditor under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association; and (iv) submit to an "inspection d'etat" or
financial inspection to be undertaken by the Borrower, at its
request, in connection with irregularities as revealed by an
audit report drawn up in accordance with Article IV of this
Agreement;
4.   the obligation of ANPIP to comply with the procedures for
the procurement of goods and consultant's services set out in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
5.   the obligation of ANPIP to carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering and irrigation practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers and acceptable to the
Association, and ANPIP's specific commitment to not replace its
Director without the prior approval of the Association;
6.   the obligation of ANPIP to promptly inform the Borrower
and the Association of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the implementation of Parts A, B,
C, and E of the Project and the accomplishment of its purposes;
7.   the commitment of ANPIP to, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project and ANPIP's performance of its
obligations under the Convention;
8.   the obligation of ANPIP to: (i) prepare and submit work
programs, budgets and reports and fully cooperate and
participate in the semi-annual reviews and the mid-term review,
in accordance with Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07 of this
Agreement; (ii) provide all relevant information required for
the evaluation of the Project; and (iii) promptly implement the
work programs, budgets and programs of action referred to in
said Sections;
9.   the obligation of ANPIP to prepare and submit to the
Borrower information relating to Parts A, B, C and E, of the
Page  14
Project, in respect of the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06. 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions, (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively);
10.  the obligation of ANPIP to at all times operate and to
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and irrigation practices;
11.  the obligation of ANPIP to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
12.  the obligation of ANPIP to refund to the Borrower any
proceeds from the Credit not used for purposes of carrying out
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project; and
13.  a provision stipulating that in case of conflict between
the Convention and this Agreement, the latter shall apply.
                          SCHEDULE 5
                        Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFAF equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 2,300,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  15
     (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account
                at such intervals as the Association shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                the documents and other evidence required
                pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                each such request, the Association shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been paid
                out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus less the total
amount of all outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
Page  16
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
