                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 25429

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (SCL-41490)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.0 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                               GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA

                                             FOR A

                      PRIVATE PARTICIPATION IN INFRASTRUCTURE
                          TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (PPI-TAL)




                                           June 19, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective October 2002)

                                           Currency Unit = Quetzal (Q)
                                                     Q 1.00 = US$ 0.13
                                                  US$ 1.00 = 7.8 Q

                                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1      December 31

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMM       Administrator of the Wholesale Market (Administrador del Mercado Mayorista)
BCIE      Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CNEE      National Electrical Energy Commission (Comisión Nacional de Energía Eléctrica)
COPRE     Presidential Commission for State Restructuring (Comisión Presidencial para la Restructuración del Estado) or OCMOE
          (Oficina del Comisionado para la Modernización del Organismo Ejecutivo) or COMODES (Comisión Presidencial para la
          Modernización y Descentralización del Estado)
DEOCSA    Central-Western Power Distribution Company (Distribuidora de Electricidad del Occidente Central, Sociedad Anónima)
DEORSA    Rural-Western Power Distribution Company (Distribuidora de Electricidad del Occidente Rural, Sociedad Anónima)
DGCT      General Directorate of Post and Telegraph Services (Dirección General de Correos y Telégrafos)
ECE       Electricity Trading Enterprise (Empresa Comercializadora de Electricidad)
EEGSA     Guatemala Electrical Company (Empresa Eléctrica de Guatemala, Sociedad Anónima)
EGEE      National Power Generation Enterprise (Empresa Guatemalteca de Electricidad)
ETCEE     Power Transmission and Coordination Enterprise (Empresa Transportadora y Coordinadora de Energía Eléctrica)
FEGUA     National Railroads Enterprise (Ferrocarriles de Guatemala)
FONDETEL  Telecommunications Fund (Fondo Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
GUATEL    National Telecommunications Enterprise (Guatemala Telecomunicaciones)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       Information and Communication Technologies
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INDE      National Electrification Institute (Instituto Nacional de Electrificación)
INFOM     Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento Municipal)
IPP       Independent Power Producers
IPS       International Postal Services, Ltd. (Canada)
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Mining (Ministerio de Energía y Minas)
MICIVI    Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda)
MMA       Ministry of Environment (Ministerio del Medio Ambiente)

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (cont.)

PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PER      Rural Electrification Plan
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPI      Private Participation in Infrastructure
PPIAF    Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRONACOM National Competitiveness Project (Proyecto Nacional de Competitividad)
SIT      Telecommunications Superintendency (Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones)
TAL      Technical Assistance Loan
TELGUA   Guatemala Telephone Company (Telefónica Guatemalteca)
TELMEX   Telephone Company of Mexico (Teléfonos de Mexico S.A.)
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
USAID    United States Agency for International Development


                                          MEASUREMENT UNITS

 kW          Kilowatt (a measure of electric power)                     MWh     Megawatt-hour (1000 kWh)
 MW          Megawatt (1000 kW)                                         GWh     Gigawatt-hour (1000 MWh)
 kWh          Kilowatt-hour (a measure of electric energy)




                                        Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                        Country Manager/Director:           Jane Armitage
                           Sector Manager/Director:         Danny Leipziger
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:               Eduardo Zolezzi

                                           GUATEMALA
                      PRIVATE PARTICIPATION IN INFRASTRUCTURE
                               TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
   6. Sustainability                                                                19
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
   9. Partner Comments                                                              24
   10. Additional Information                                                       24
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Map

Project ID: P048756                                                      Project Name: Private Participation in Infrastructure
                                                                         Technical Assistance
Team Leader: Eduardo H. Zolezzi                                          TL Unit: LCSFR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 19, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Private Participation in Infrastructure Technical        L/C/TF Number: SCL-41490
                            Assistance
   Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                                          Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (91%); Postal services (7%);
                            Law and justice (1%); Power (1%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Law reform (S); Legal institutions for a
                            market economy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/10/1996                                        Effective: 07/01/1997              04/24/1998
   Appraisal:    02/17/1997                                            MTR:                           03/15/1999
    Approval:    04/22/1997                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               08/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA/OFIC. COMISIONADO PRESIDENCIAL
                                           PARA MOD. DEL ORG. EJEC Y ADM
                      Other Partners:      USAID co-financier

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   S.J. Burki
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                                       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Danny Leipziger                                     Martin Staab
Team Leader at ICR:        Eduardo Zolezzi                                     Clive Harris
ICR Primary Author(s): Alvaro J. Covarrubias


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background:

This Technical Assistance Project spanned two Guatemalan Administrations. In 1997, the Administration
of President Alvaro Arzú Irigoyen (1996-2000) recognized that in order to accelerate the pace of economic
growth and spread the benefits of growth, it was necessary to improve the quality of infrastructure service
provision and widen the coverage of these services through private sector participation in infrastructure.
This goal was to be accomplished by introducing private sector management, ownership and competition
into service provision (where possible); in addition to transforming the Government's role of service
provider to that of regulator and policy-maker. This initiative in infrastructure was part of a wider reform
encompassing modernization of the public sector, reform of the hydrocarbon sector and promotion of
foreign investment in Guatemala. The Administration of President Arzú Irigoyen prepared and appraised
the Project, made the loan effective and initiated project implementation. The current Administration,
headed by President Alfonso Portillo, has continued project implementation.

Necessary legal reforms included amendments to both the Ley de Contrataciones and Ley de
Telecomunicaciones, and the enactment of a new Ley General de Electricidad. The Ley de Contrataciones
, which governs the concessions of activities and the contracting out of services by the public sector, as
amended in March 1997, now permits the sale of shares of autonomous state-owned entities to the public,
among other reforms. The Ley de Telecomunicaciones, as amended in October 1997, provided for the
break-up of the government-owned telephone service and its sale to private entrepreneurs. The new Ley
General de Electricidad, as enacted in 1996, unbundled generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity. It provided for the break-up of the government-owned electricity enterprises and their sale to the
private sector in order to compete in generation and to operate regulated concessions of distribution
companies.

The specific sectors addressed in this project were ports, roads, power (electricity), telecommunications and
the postal service. These sectors have had a varied history in terms of development, private sector
involvement and productivity. As described below, before the reforms were implemented under this
project, these infrastructure sectors were under a mix of government ownership, leasing arrangements and,
to a lesser extent, management and concession contracts.


In the power sector, the Government's reforms involved complete restructuring. The sector already had
experience with private sector participation through power purchase agreements. The objective of the
project, however, was to implement broader reforms that would involve privatization of state-owned assets,
and legal and regulatory reform, to increase the sector's efficiency and improve coverage. This objective
also included unbundling of generation, transmission and distribution activities, and the creation of a
wholesale market. To that end, the technical assistance goal was to design and implement a new legal and
regulatory framework and prepare the state-owned electrical enterprises for privatization. Capacity
building was designed to strengthen the capacity of the Government's regulatory agency, the entities in
charge of the privatization program and the entity in charge of the administration of the electricity
wholesale market. Project preparation activities assisted in preparation of a new electricity law that was
enacted in 1996, prior to project effectiveness.

In the telecommunications sector, service was provided by the state-owned, autonomous company
GUATEL, which also held the monopoly for the provision of fixed telephony. The objective of the project



                                                     - 2 -

was to assist with the privatization of GUATEL, and to develop a new legal and regulatory framework that
would open the sector gradually to competition. To accomplish this objective, an amendment to the
telecommunications law was necessary, which was obtained in October 1997.

In 1997, the ports sector had a mixed record of productivity. Overall productivity of the three ports of
Puerto Barrios, Puerto Quetzal and Puerto Santo Tomás de Castilla was estimated to be at 50% of
international standards. However, there were significant differences between the individual ports. Puerto
Barrios, operated by a private operator under a 25-year concession, was the second most efficient and
reliable port in Central America. In contrast, the performance of publicly-owned Puerto Quetzal and
Puerto Santo Tomás were deemed inadequate. Puerto Quetzal had partial private sector participation in
some port activities, while Puerto Santo Tomás was entirely publicly owned and operated. It was expected
that the performance of these two ports could be improved through greater private participation in the
operation.

In the rest of the transport sector, the experience with private sector participation was very limited. There
was no experience with road concessioning at that time, and the only limited experience was gained in the
railway sector, with the leasing of railroad equipment, facilities and territories to a private operator. The
experience with this arrangement, however, was mixed. The objective of the project was to increase private
participation in the road sub-sector through setting up an appropriate legal and regulatory framework and
concessioning selected roads.

At the start of the project in 1997, the postal service provided by the Directorate of Post and Telegraph
Services (Dirección General de Correos y Telégrafos, DGCT) suffered from over-staffing, an extremely
weak financial position and poor and unreliable service. Annual losses were around US$2 million.
Moreover, small private courier services were using DGCT's staff and facilities on an informal basis. To
improve the situation, the Government established three basic goals for the postal sector: (i) ensure an
acceptable level of universal postal services for the entire country in terms of access, affordability and
quality; (ii) reduce the Government deficit associated with providing these services; and (iii) increase
private participation in the postal sector. To achieve these goals, the DGCT was to enter into a
management contract with a private firm with solid experience in the provision of postal services.

Original Objective:

As stated in the PAD, the project objectives sought to prepare selected infrastructure sectors ­ power,
telecommunications, ports, roads and highways, and postal services ­ for privatization and concessions
within a sound legal and regulatory framework. Achieving this objective would contribute to the
Government's goals of improving the efficiency of infrastructure service provision and widening service
coverage. To accomplish this objective, the project would provide technical assistance to draw up
regulations for existing sectoral legislation and develop new legislation where required; strengthen
regulatory agencies and sectoral ministries charged with overseeing the infrastructure sectors listed above;
restructure and prepare for privatization entities within these sectors; and strengthen the ability of the
Government to manage and implement the program of privatization and concessions in the infrastructure
sector.

Assessment: The project objectives were appropriate, as they supported the Government's efforts to
reform the infrastructure sector, which for decades had been controlled and partly financed with public
funds. The objectives of the project reflected the Bank's assistance to the Government, as stated in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of that time. The infrastructure sectors were controlled by the
state, and most of the sectors were inefficient and delivered low quality services. Moreover, the prices of



                                                      - 3 -

public services did not usually reflect economic costs, causing distortions in the economy and deficits that
had to be covered with public funds. The project development objective was to redress this situation by (i)
introducing private participation in infrastructure under the form of either private ownership or
management services as appropriate, (ii) developing an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for
each sector, and (iii) building the capacity of the newly created entities to accomplish their functions.
However, it should be noted that a completion of comprehensive reforms in five infrastructure sectors was
an extremely ambitious objective. In retrospect, more consideration could have been given to the
institutional capacity and government commitment needed to support reforms in so many sectors all at
once. In particular, transport sector reforms are in general more difficult and lengthy to achieve.
Throughout the project, government support was stronger to the power and telecommunications sectors and
weaker to the transport sectors. A project focusing on fewer sectors might have been more effective. All
things considered, however, the project objectives were adequate.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:

Electricity: Assist the establishment of the electricity wholesale market, restructure the National Institute
of Electricity (INDE), privatize the Guatemala Electricity Company (EEGSA), procure equipment, train
staff of the National Electric Energy Commission (CNEE) and the Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM),
develop all required regulations, conduct environmental audits and establish environmental regulations.

Telecommunications: Provide training and equipment to the regulatory body, draft detailed regulations for
interconnections, prepare GUATEL for privatization (funded by the Borrower), assist in auctioning and
monitoring of the radio spectrum including the purchase of software and develop regulations dealing with
the radio spectrum.

Ports: Offer technical assistance to the concessioning process, draft sector legislation, conduct
environmental audits and prepare environmental regulations, develop a strategy for the minor ports, and
conduct a training program for the staff in port authorities.

Highways: Offer technical assistance to identify roads for possible concessions and develop model
concession agreements and bidding documents.

Postal services: Assist in the development of a regulatory framework; the preparation of concession
documents and the strategy for postal services; offer technical assistance to prepare a management
contract; and train staff for a new regulatory role.

Cross-sectoral activities: Fund a public information campaign, study tours and the promotion and
dissemination of investment opportunities; handle project management (funding for implementing unit,
procurement agent and external audit); and offer technical assistance and training for additional
privatization requirements and cross-sectoral issues.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component                              Cost                 Rating
Hiring of Procurement Agent          $600,000               S
Ports                                $700,000               U



                                                      - 4 -

Road Concessioning;                   $700,000               U
Electricity                        $4,900,000                S
Telecommunications                 $5,200,000                S
Postal Services                       $600,000               S
Cross-Sectoral Activities          $5,200,000                U

Following a request made by the Borrower in February 2000, the Bank added one component to the project
without changing the project objectives. The additional component included activities to improve the
delivery of municipal services (electricity, water, water and sanitation, and solid waste disposal) with
private participation. There has also been a gradual change in the scope of the power and telecom
components, as the sector needs shifted from sector restructuring and privatization to post-privatization
issues, including fine-tuning of the regulatory framework, capacity building activities, and formulation of
policies and implementation mechanisms for rural investment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Both the Bank and the Government were actively involved in project preparation. Initially, the
Government considered an umbrella technical assistance loan from the Bank, which would have covered
aspects of public sector modernization, tax reform and infrastructure privatization. Subsequently, the Bank
and the Government reached the conclusion that such a broad operation would be difficult to manage and
implement and therefore, decided to unbundle the initiative into separate lending operations of which the
Private Participation in Infrastructure (PPI) Project was the first. Even so, the project was still quite
complex, and this has been the project's main weakness. In particular, experience shows that reforms in the
transport sector are relatively difficult to implement in comparison to telecommunications and power sector
reforms. During the project preparation, the Government, as well as the heads of the key state entities
involved in the privatization effort (MEM, MICIVI, GUATEL, EEGSA and INDE) showed strong
commitment to the project. Early in the project cycle, the Government demonstrated strong ownership of
the project by obtaining Congressional approval of the Ley General de Electricidad, and the amendments
to the Ley de Contrataciones and the Ley de Telecomunicaciones, triggering the initiative to modernize the
Executive Branch and appoint a Commissioner to oversee the implementation of the new laws. These
events led the project appraisal team to rate project risks as moderate. There was no way to mitigate the
risk that later Administrations would not show the same type of commitment to the reforms, and it was a
risk that has proved to be real and significant.

On the other hand, the Bank involvement was seen as critical for successful completion of the announced
reforms. The Bank's presence gave international credibility to the project and provided the Government
with advice on the project design based on its worldwide experience with similar operations in other
countries. Also, the Bank alerted the Government of the need to ensure support from the legislative body to
pass timely reform laws; to involve trade unions, affected workers and potential investors in the process;
and to use transparent mechanisms to award privatization bids.

All things considered, quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Electricity Sector

The development objective applicable to the electricity sector was achieved satisfactorily. In addition to



                                                      - 5 -

privatization, the power sector reforms included a comprehensive legal and regulatory reform with the
objective of increasing efficiency and ensuring adequate expansion. These reforms included restructuring
of the power sector, creation of a wholesale market, creation of a regulatory agency (CNEE), and passage
of key regulations, including tariff setting and quality of service. Installed capacity and electricity coverage
have been increasing. Power supply has become reliable, and increases in efficiency and implementation of
the rural electrification program resulted in a significant increase in electricity coverage from 56% in 1997
to 82% in 2001. Even though privatization was not fully completed ( the transmission company and
hydroelectric plants of INDE remain public), the private sector owns the majority of generation and its
share keeps growing. Government's ownership of transmission has not led to any market distortions, since
transmission is independent from generation. Due to delays in making the loan effective, loan proceeds
were not used for this privatization; the Government used its own funds. The project, however, has
supported various post-privatization activities, including drafting of key regulations and technical norms,
consolidation of the wholesale market, capacity building of newly created entities (particularly CNEE and
AMM) and development of new policies, such as for rural electrification. All things considered, the
performance of the electricity sector has been very satisfactory.

Restructuring of the power sector has been completed. In November 1996, while the project was in the
preparation stage, a new General Electricity Law (Ley General de Electricidad) was enacted, which during
more than five years of application, has generally proved to be adequate for the country's power sector.
The key features of the Law are: (a) unbundling the activities of the sector in generation, transmission,
distribution and commercialization of energy; (b) competition in the generation and commercialization
activities; (c) unrestricted and open access to the transmission system, which currently is owned by a
Government utility; (d) unregulated generation prices, and transmission and distribution prices regulated
according to established and transparent norms; (e) freedom of energy users to choose their supplier; and
(f) definition of the rights of energy users.

The new power sector entities function satisfactorily. The National Electrical Energy Commission
(Comisión Nacional de Energía Eléctrica, CNEE), the sector regulator, and the Administrator of the
Wholesale Market (Administrador del Mercado Mayorista, AMM), the wholesale market operator, were
created by the new Electricity Law and are now established, staffed and functioning well. The companies
resulting from the restructuring and privatization of state-owned power generation, transmission and
distribution service (DEORSA, DEOCSA, EGEE, EEGSA, ECE, ETCEE and the new INDE) are also
well established and performing well. The State has retained ownership of all the hydroelectric stations and
the enterprise in charge of the transmission. Hydroelectric plants account for 40% of the power generating
capacity installed in the country. Private companies operating steam and diesel generating plants own the
rest. As all new investment is private, the importance of INDE's share of the power generation capacity is
falling. The three private distribution companies (DEORSA, DEOCSA and EEGSA) have also been
functioning satisfactorily, gradually expanding the distribution network. One of the constraints to
expansion, however, is the existence of several municipal companies that are in charge of power
distribution and have been characterized by inefficient operations and financial difficulties, adversely
affecting the quality of service and the possibilities of expansion in their respective distribution areas.
These companies, however, serve only a fraction of total users (roughly 7%).

Economic tariff setting, but retail tariff deficiencies. Tariffs of generating plants and the transmission
and distribution companies are based on cost-recovery principles. Tariffs are regulated by CNEE,
according to the methodology established by the Electricity Law and corresponding regulations. The main
problem with tariff setting relates to the Government's subsidization of households. The State (through
INDE) subsidizes the retail price of electricity for those users consuming less than 300 kWh per month.
This "social tariff", as it is called, subsidizes 90% of all residential users. It is a very inefficient subsidy,


                                                       - 6 -

as it targets primarily the middle class and not the poor.

Fast electricity coverage expansion. The electrification index rose from 56% in 1997 to 82% in 2001 and
is expected to reach 90% in 2004 (well above the Latin American average). This achievement was a direct
result of the reform of the electricity sector and private participation in the sector. Privatization proceeds
were used to help subsidize the expansion of the distribution network in an efficient manner (see Viewpoint
Note, "Private Rural Power: Network Expansion Using an Output-Based Scheme in Guatemala," Clive
Harris, June 2002.)

Telecommunications sector

The development objectives applicable to the telecommunications sector were achieved satisfactorily.
The telecom sector has transformed profoundly. Provision of telecom services is fully private and
competition is increasing. Guatemala now has more than 800,000 fixed lines and more than one million
new mobile lines, increasing the penetration rate (fixed and mobile combined) from 4.6% in 1997 to 17.2%
in 2001. The number of fixed lines increased by 15% in this period, while the number of mobile phones
grew by 204%. This achievement is a direct result of the privatization and the sector reform that
introduced competition. Now, most of the urban population in Guatemala has access to telephone service,
either fixed or mobile. Moreover, the tariffs, overall, have decreased. The main challenge now is the
extension of telecom services to rural areas. All things considered, the performance of the
telecommunications sector is very satisfactory.

Sector restructuring and privatization. Under the project, the state-owned communications entity was split
into TELGUA and GUATEL. TELGUA retained the majority of GUATEL's telecommunications assets
and was privatized in 1998 to TELMEX, a Mexican telecom operator. GUATEL is a residual entity,
which was left in charge of the management of the remaining assets, debt service and some rural
telecommunications networks. Sector liberalization brought three new strong competitors in the mobile
market: a subsidiary of Millicom (USA); Telefónica of Spain; and Bell South, and several companies
started competing with Entel in the long-distance market. A sector regulator (Superintendencia de
Telecomunicaciones) was established and strengthened by the Project, and has been functioning
satisfactorily. The new Administration which took office in 2000 originally questioned GUATEL's
privatization and attempted to reverse this transaction. As a result, the project's support in the
telecommunications sector was interrupted for about 18 months, between 2000 and 2001. This issue was
eventually resolved and a new agreement between the Government and TELMEX was signed in October
2002. This interruption mainly affected the support provided to the regulator (Superintendencia de
Telecomunicaciones). By 2000, however, the regulator was well-established and had sufficient internal
resources to support its functions. (The regulator is funded from a levy based on sector revenues).




                                                      - 7 -

Remaining challenges. The main unresolved issue in the telecommunications sector relates to the
inadequate strategy and institutional arrangements for rural telecommunications (see below). Although this
issue is extremely important, it was not a part of the original project's objectives and description. This is
because the reforms of 1996-97 did not address the universal service issue, and also created an institutional
duplication between GUATEL and the Telecommunications Fund (FONDETEL). On one hand, the
Government has left the responsibility for operating the original GUATEL rural phone networks with the
new GUATEL, the residual entity. On the other hand, FONDETEL was created, as a fund to channel the
subsidies to the private sector to install and operate new rural telephones. The contract is awarded to the
eligible operator requiring the lowest subsidy. FONDETEL was funded with proceeds of the spectrum
auctions. FONDETEL's approach is consistent with international best practices as applied in many other
LAC countries, such as Peru, Chile or Colombia. However, the unclear objectives and roles for GUATEL
have led this institution into expanding its own rural telephone network, resulting in inefficient investments,
duplications of networks, and the resulting need for excessive subsidies. FONDETEL would appear to be
a more efficient and transparent mechanism for channeling public subsidies, but most of its original funds
have already been invested, and no new funding arrangement has been set in place. The Ministry of
Communications, Infrastructure and Housing (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda,
MICIVI), in charge of the sector, does not have adequate resources to develop or implement new policies.
This became very important in the era of the knowledge economy, as the Government has had to take the
lead in the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) to help in the development of
Guatemala.

Transport

In contrast to the telecom and electricity sectors, the development objectives applicable to the transport
sector (ports and roads) were not achieved. Private participation experience in financing and operating
transport infrastructure in Guatemala is still very modest. In the road sector, some experience has been
gained through concessioning one segment of a road between Guatemala city and Puerto Quetzal. The
concessioning process, however, was not supported by the project. The bidding process to select a
concessionaire was deficient, as were the environmental and social assessments. Thus, the outcome for the
road sector is unsatisfactory. In the port sector, the most successful experience has been with the Puerto
Barrios concession (which, however, was carried out before the project), and limited leases of selected port
operations to private operators in Puerto Quetzal, and to a lesser extent in Puerto Santo Tomas. A new
draft of Port and Maritime Law was prepared (with the assistance of the project) but it has not been
presented to the Congress. Therefore the outcome of this component is also unsatisfactory.

Postal services

In 1997, the General Directorate of Post and Telegraph Services (Dirección General de Correos y
Telégrafos, DGCT) entered into a five-year management contract with a private operator (Canadian postal
operator). The postal service has improved significantly. All indicators, including coverage, efficiency and
reliability have improved, while the requirements of subsidies were dramatically reduced. The main issue,
however, is the sustainability of these benefits, given that the management contract is expiring this year,
and the future of the postal service remains unsure. The outcome for this sub-component is rated as
marginally satisfactory.

Municipal services

At the request of the Government, the project also financed activities related to municipal infrastructure



                                                       - 8 -

(electricity, water and sanitation, and solid waste). The purpose of this component was to improve the
delivery of these services, which in general suffered problems of low coverage, efficiency and financial
sustainability. The project financed diagnostic studies and provided recommendations for improving the
delivery of these services. These activities, however, were only complementary and were not a part of the
original project components. Therefore, this sub-component is not rated here.

Assessment

The overall project outcome is unsatisfactory. Although major achievements were recorded by
reforming and privatizing power and telecommunications sector, and partially the postal sector, these
accomplishments were not extended to port and road sectors. The lack of commitment from the
Government and the unsatisfactory performance of the project coordinating unit and the implementing
agencies led to very slow implementation progress, particularly since 2000. Despite several efforts made
by the Bank to revive the project since the mid-term review, and the late positive reaction made by the
Government in late 2001 and early 2002, the Bank concluded that it was highly unlikely that the
principal project objectives in the transport sector would be achieved by extending the project life
beyond the already extended and elapsed 14 months. In retrospect, it would have been advisable to
amend the loan agreement in 2000 reducing the project objectives to match the political support for few
sectors and the limited implementation capacity of the project implementation unit.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A more detailed account is presented below on the output of the project for each component, and project's
main contributions to this outcome. Particular attention is given to the power and telecommunications
sector, the main beneficiaries of the project.

Power sector

The legal and regulatory framework. The National Electrical Energy Commission (Comisión Nacional de
Energía Eléctrica, CNEE) and the Administrator of the Wholesale Market (Administrador del Mercado
Mayorista, AMM) are in full operation. They were created by the General Electricity Law enacted on
November 21, 1996 (Congress Decree No. 93-96). The project contributed to the drafting of the original
regulatory framework, and its consolidation and fine-tuning throughout the project period.

The CNEE. The Regulations of the General Electricity Law (Government Agreement No. 256-97 of March
21, 1997) created the CNEE as the regulator of the electricity sector. The CNEE is performing its policy
making functions satisfactorily. It has issued and monitored the application of 12 technical norms on safety
of electrical installations, quality of technical and commercial services, and the design and operation of
transmission and distribution lines. CNEE has also established the methodology and calculated the
electricity tariffs of the regulated transmission and distribution companies, and of the subsidized social
tariffs applicable to consumption lower than 300 kWh per month. It has supervised the retail tariffs being
charged to consumers by the distribution companies EEGSA, DEOCSA and DEORSA. The Executive
Board of the CNEE is composed of a President and three Directors appointed by the President of the
Republic. The Executive Board serves a 5-year term. Although technically the CNEE is part of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines, it has a semi-autonomous status, and its budget is financed with the
proceeds of a 0.3 % tax on the electricity sales of distribution companies. The Government has been
respecting CNEE's legal responsibilities and autonomy. (Creation of autonomous entities require an
approval in the Congress by a two-third majority, which is difficult to achieve). CNEE has been performing
satisfactorily and appears to be a sustainable institution. The project provided considerable resources for
CNEE capacity building. This included technical assistance for CNEE's activities (such as tariff revision,



                                                       - 9 -

quality audits etc.), and specific training activities on regulatory issues. Notwithstanding, it is important
that these capacity building activities continue after the closure of the project. CNEE appears to now have
sufficient resources to comply with its regulatory functions and to continue financing the training of its
staff.

The AMM. Since 1998, the AMM has been engaged in real-time commercial transactions among
generators, distributors and large consumers of electricity connected to the national interconnected system,
in accordance with its regulations (Government Agreement No. 299-98 of May 25, 1998). Each group of
generators, transmitters, distributors and large consumers has one representative and one alternate in the
Board of Directors of the AMM; the Presidency of the Board rotates every two years. The wholesale
market is composed of 20 generators, 16 distributors, 2 transmitters, 5 brokers and 26 large consumers.
The project helped to establish AMM, and design its operating rules in 2001. With it, the regulatory
framework of the electricity sector has been completed. The project also provided initial support in training
the AMM staff. The AMM is now staffed with highly qualified professionals, supported by top- of-the-line
communications, telemetering, telecontrol devices and computer hardware and software. The AMM
monthly performs the physical and monetary balances of the wholesale market and resulting bank transfers.
The AMM is also a sustainable entity. It is a nonprofit organization financed by the agents of the
wholesale market, based on their proportional participation. As a private entity, it is autonomous and is
likely to be sustainable.

Privatization and restructuring. Privatization has been largely completed. All distribution and most of
the generation facilities are in private hands. The State still owns hydroelectric generation and
transmission. Although the Government owns a part of the generation capacity (about 40%), it does not
invest in new generation projects. The state-owned generation represents about 40% of the installed
capacity and its share is declining as private investment is increasing. In addition, 11 small electricity
distribution networks are owned by municipalities but they serve only about 7 % of the users. The sector
has been completely restructured. Generation, transmission and distribution were unbundled. There is
competition in generation. Independent Power Producers (IPP) that had power purchase agreements
(PPAs) negotiated before the reforms were integrated into the new sector structure. This resulted in a more
efficient market operation and a lower electricity price.

Generation and transmission. The Instituto Nacional de Electrificación (INDE) was split into three
entities: The new INDE, the Empresa Transportadora y Coordinadora de Energía Eléctrica (ETCEE)
and the Empresa Comercializadora de Electricidad (ECE). The thermal generating plants were privatized,
but INDE became the owner of the hydroelectric plants which contribute about 40 % of the installed
capacity of the country. ETCEE is owned by the State and operates all transmission lines and substations
of the 220 kV and 69 kV. ECE performs marketing functions in the retail electricity market. The installed
capacity in the SIN has been increasing steadily with the 8 % average annual increase of the peak load.
Installed capacity grew from 1,314 MW in 1996 to 1,670 MW in 2002, equivalent to a 27 % increase.
Sixty percent of installed capacity is in private hands, generating about 50 % of electricity sales. The
balance is mainly hydroelectric generation by INDE.

Distribution. Electricity distribution was privatized in 1998. Three private enterprises emerged: the
Distribuidora de Electricidad de Occidente S.A. (DEOCSA), the Distribuidora de Electricidad del
Oriente Rural S. A. (DEORSA) and the Empresa Eléctrica de Guatemala S. A (EEGSA). The latter serves
the central zone of the country. Eighty percent of DEOCSA and DEORSA were sold to Union Fenosa of
Spain for US$101 million under an International Competitive Bidding (ICB) process. Eighty percent of
EEGSA was sold to Iberdrola of Spain in US$520 million under an ICB. The remaining 20 % was sold to
local investors.


                                                       - 10 -

Rural electrification. The US$101 million paid for DEOCSA and DEORSA were deposited in a trust fund
(escrow account) to finance rural electrification expansion and the connection of 280,000 rural users (about
US$ 1.57 million) located in 2,633 villages within a strip of 200 meters along the rural distribution lines of
DEOCSA and DEORSA. This trust fund, increased by a Government contribution of US$202 million, is
financing the Rural Electrification Plan (PER). The PER and the trust fund are administered by INDE. By
May 2002, the PER, through DEOCSA and DEORSA had connected 220,000 users in 100 villages, at a
cost of US$120.8 million financed by the PER trust fund. At the same time, the construction of 420 km of
230 kV transmission lines and 840 km of sub-transmission lines expanded the reach of the power system.
Moreover, DEOCSA and DEORSA financed the connection of 240,000 additional rural users with their
own resources. This remarkable effort in private rural electrification lifted the country electrification index
to 82 % in early 2002, and accounting for ongoing and planned works, that index may reach 90 % in 2004.
This result can be considered as a highly satisfactory social achievement by the private sector. DEORSA
and DEOCSA now serve about 1,100,000 clients; EEGSA serves about 634,000 clients; and the
municipalities serve about 118,000 clients.




                                                    - 11 -

                    Table - Power System Performance Indicators



             Electricity Production                                          %

             By technology (GWh)
             Gas turbines generators                         106.94              1.85 %
             Steam turbines generators                    1,426.60             24.71 %
             Engine driven generators                     1,780.71             30.85 %

             Total thermal generation                     3,314.25             57.42 %
             Total hydroelectric generation               2,264.32             39.23 %
             Total geothermal generation                     193.68              3.36 %
             Total generation                             5,772.25           100.00 %

             By origen (GWh)
             Interconnected system generation             5,772.25                 99.09
             Imports                                           53.0                 0.91
             Total                                        5,825.25               100.00

             International trade (GWh)                 Year 2001            Year 2000
             Imports                                          53.00              122.94
             Exports                                         362.84              827.34
             Net exchange                                    309.84              704.04
             Exchange without losses                         415.84              950.28
             Export losses                                     6.17                13.53

             Spot price (US$/MWh)
             Annual average                                   43.11
             Monthly maximum average                          53.25
             Monthly minimum average                          31.22

             Other indicators
             Annual consumption in SIN                        5,293                5,068
             (GWh)
             Electricity consumption growth                 4.43 %               9.68 %
             rate
             Local losses                                   2.81 %               2.65 %
             Export losses                                  0.11 %               0.22 %
             Maximum demand in SIN (MW)                     1,074.6             1,017.3
             Maximum demand without                         1,133.6             1,105.3
             exports (MW)
             Power demand growth rate in                    5.63 %               8.21 %
             SIN


Electricity pricing. The final price paid by the consumer is composed of the sum of generation and
transmission costs plus the value added of electricity distribution. The electricity distributors buy power



                                                    - 12 -

and energy from the generators which they supply to their users. The distributors buy the balance in the
spot market at the prevailing prices. In the spot market the average price of one MWh in 2001 was
US$43.11 and had a minimum of US$31.22 in May and a maximum of US$53.25 in March. The
transmission cost is a toll regulated by the CNEE. The value added of distribution is regulated by the
CNEE based on a model distribution company. However, the retail price set for final users consuming up
to 300 kWh per month is highly subsidized since 2000, in accordance with the Social Tariff Law. This has
distorted the technical and economic principles used to determine the tariffs as demonstrated by the fact
that the average monthly bill of clients of the distribution companies is about 55 kWh. It is doubtful that
90 % of the population consuming 300 kWh per month is composed only of the most economically
vulnerable people. A social tariff with a ceiling of 300 kWh/month for 90 % of the population is indeed a
general subsidy. A more targeted social tariff would benefit clients consuming no more than 60 kWh per
month. The subsidy of about Q0.60/kWh is financed by the State through the low price of electricity
bought by the distribution companies from the hydroelectric plants of EGEE.

The tables below indicate the retail electricity tariffs with and without subsidy and the price of
hydroelectric generation paid for by the distribution companies.

Table - Electricity tariff of one kWh sold to final consumer
Company          Social Tariff                       Normal Tariff
EEGSA            Q0.60 (US$0.075)                    Q 1.07 (US$0.130)
DEOCSA           Q0.59 (US$0.076)                    Q 0.93 (US$0.112)
DEORSA           Q0.59 (US$0.077)                    Q 0.92 (US$0.113)

Table - Hydroelectric price of one MWh sold to distribution companies
Company          Social Price                        Normal Price
EEGSA            US$47.0                             US$56.00
DEOCSA           US$25.0                             US$54.87
DEORSA           US$29.0                             US$55.13

The average price of hydro electricity sold to distribution companies is US$32.0/MWh.

Telecommunications sector

Sector development. Since the 1996 and 1997 telecommunications reform, the sector has privatized
significantly during the period between 1997-2001. Fixed lines have almost doubled from 430,000 to
756,000 lines and the number of mobile lines have grown 20 fold, from 64,000 to 1,126,000. Altogether,
the number of telephone lines has grown from 494,000 in 1997 to 1,882,000 in 2001 at an average of 40 %
per year.

The legal and regulatory framework. The new legal and regulatory framework for the telecom sector has
been established. The Superintendency of Telecommunications (SIT) has been established as a regulatory
entity and has been functioning satisfactorily. The project contributed to drafting the legal and regulatory
framework and its fine-tuning and capacity building activities for SIT.

Privatization and market liberalization. The successful privatization of the telecommunications sector can
be credited to the privatization of the main assets of the state-owned GUATEL. First, in 1997, GUATEL
was split into TELGUA and GUATEL. TELGUA was privatized in 1998, and GUATEL, a residual entity,
was in charge of disinvesting the remaining assets, and the operation of some smaller rural telecom
networks. Teléfonos de Mexico S.A. (TELMEX) paid US$520 million for TELGUA. At the same time,



                                                       - 13 -

the sector was liberalized from the outset. This opening of the sector to competitive market forces allowed
15 companies to provide fixed local telephone services. Although they account for only 6 % of the local
service market, they pose competition to TELGUA. Four companies provide mobile telephone services:
SERCOM PCS Digital (subsidiary of TELGUA, 44%), Comunicaciones Celulares (subsidiary of Millicom
International, 35%), Telefónica Centroamericana Guatemala (subsidiary of Telefónica de España, 14%),
and Bell South Guatemala (7%). Several companies compete in the long-distance market.

The opening of the telecommunications market achieved a notable success by investing in mobile telephone
services, but less in fixed telephone lines. The main beneficiary of the investment in fixed lines was
Guatemala City, where 69% of all fixed telephones are now installed. 21% of the remaining fixed lines are
spread almost evenly in nine cities and 10% are scattered in the rural areas of the country. Guatemala now
has a telephone density of 6.3 fixed lines/100 inhabitants which is less than the density in El Salvador,
Mexico, Panama, and Costa Rica but more than the density in Honduras and Nicaragua. As the concession
contract did not give any exclusivity to TELGUA, it also did not require any investments in the local
networks. At the same time, although 15 companies compete with TELGUA in the local fixed-line
services, they represent only 6% of the market, and concentrate primarily on the more lucrative market
segments. In 2001, the Government and TELGUA renegotiated the concession contract, agreeing on a
specific investment program of Q 1,950 million (US$253.5 million) consisting of the installation of fixed
lines, mobile lines and public telephones. Although the new Government in 2000 initially attempted to
revise the privatization, the dispute was settled by the 2001 agreement described above. The Government
is committed now to sector reforms, privatization and promoting greater competition.

SIT. Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones (SIT) was established as a regulator for the
telecommunications sector. Like CNEE, this is an autonomous entity, financed through a sector-based
levy. The Government has been respecting this autonomy. SIT is fully staffed with competent
professionals and has been functioning satisfactorily. The project provided considerable resources for
technical assistance and capacity building activities for SIT, particularly in the earlier years of the project.
SIT now appears to have sufficient resources to comply with its regulatory functions and to continue
financing the training of its staff.

Local telephone tariffs. A 3-minute local call costs the equivalent of US$0.08, which is high compared to
the tariff in El Salvador, Costa Rica and Panama (US$0.02 to US$0.06) but very low compared to the
tariff in Mexico (US$0.14). Residential service does not have a fixed monthly charge (it is US$3 to US$13
in other Central American countries). The commercial tariff has a monthly fixed charge of US$5.57 which
is very low compared to the commercial fixed charge in the range of US$6 to US$21 prevailing in other
Central American countries.

International telephone tariffs. The competitive market has reduced the price of international calls
significantly. A call from Guatemala to USA now costs US$0.10/minute. This has produced a strong
increase in the level of international telephone traffic, which has reached 536 million minutes of incoming
calls and 156 million minutes of outgoing calls annually.

Mobile telephone services tariffs. A very competitive market has also resulted in reduction of tariffs for
mobile telephone services. A prepaid call costs 1.0 Q/minute (US$0.12), which is low compared to other
Latin American countries, because of the very low fixed-to-mobile interconnection charge
(US$0.015/minute). In Guatemala, the mobile telephone service works under "the calling party pays"
system. The caller pays 0.356 Q/minute.




                                                      - 14 -

Internet Access. There are 80,000 users of the Internet. This is 0.7 % of the population, a figure
comparable to El Salvador but very low compared to Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama (2.6 to 6.25 %).
One of the reasons for the low access to the Internet is the high cost of a local call. One hour of Internet use
costs Q 21.0. A flat tariff for Internet access may contribute to solve the cost problem, but the Law does
not permit SIT to regulate Internet tariffs.

Rural and suburban telephone services. The institutional framework for rural and suburban telephone
services is not clear in Guatemala. There are two institutions in charge of rural telephony. The lack of
coordination leads to inefficient investments and duplication of efforts. On one hand, GUATEL is in
charge of some 2,000 rural community telephones remaining after the separation and privatization of
TELGUA in 1997. GUATEL also implemented new investment projects, such as a high capacity
microwave network (63 E1) linking the Guatemala-Mexico border at a cost of US$5 million plus Q5.0
million financed with a private loan and a grant. This network links 1,000 communities. GUATEL also
began to operate 3,000 suburban telephone lines it bought in suburban areas of Guatemala City before
privatization. GUATEL has a staff of 300 and an annual operating deficit of about Q3.0 million (US$0.40
million). A rural telecommunications strategy, financed by the Project, pointed out various deficiencies in
GUATEL's operation and its investment programs, particularly the relatively high costs of its investment
programs due to over-dimensioning of investment, use of inappropriate technologies and a need to finance
the operations deficit.

On the other hand, the telecommunications law established FONDETEL to award subsidies under
competitive bidding to private operators. FONDETEL is financed from the proceeds from the spectrum
auctions in the telecom sector. In 1991-2001, FONDETEL awarded contracts to four enterprises for the
installation of 7,063 telephone lines in 2,443 rural communities, using satellite and radio technology. The
total subsidy was Q66.5 million (US$8.64 million) averaging a subsidy of Q9,415 (US$1,223.95) per line.
FONDETEL has been structured on a basis similar to institutions in LAC and worldwide, which are
considered best practices. Its main problem, however, is financing, as there would not be new revenues
from the spectrum auctions. In other countries, the financing is often provided by a small levy (about 1%)
of all sector revenues. In Guatemala, however, this would require a change of the law. The project
provided support to FONDETEL in the design of its first operations and capacity building. Most
importantly, however, the project financed a rural telecommunications strategy study, which identified the
strengths and weaknesses in both GUATEL and FONDETEL and provided specific recommendations for
improving the provision of the rural telecommunications services in Guatemala. Efficient use of resources
is essential, given the continued deficit in rural telecommunications services. It is estimated that only 5,000
rural communities have access to telephones and another 45,000 have no access. In addition, the efforts
have concentrated so far only on voice service. A strategy is needed to promote more advanced
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), including Internet and their applications for rural
development.

Transport

Private participation in ports. Almost no progress has been achieved in terms of private participation in
the ports sector. The present situation in the three main ports of Guatemala is not much different from
what existed before the project started. Puerto Barrios is operated under a 25-year concession contract of
which twelve years have elapsed. Puerto Barrios is the second most efficient port in Central America,
which clearly shows the benefits of private sector participation and contrasts sharply with the performance
of the other two major ports which are in public hands. In particular, the largest port, Puerto Santo Tomas
is in bad condition, overstaffed with very low productivity and efficiency indicators. Some activities were
leased to the private sector to increase efficiency, but greater private sector involvement is blocked by


                                                       - 15 -

powerful labor unions. Puerto Quetzal is in an intermediary position. Although it is state owned, a
considerable number of operations are under private management. However, there is still significant room
for improvement. For comparison, Puerto Barrios operates around 1.7 million tons a year with 70
employees, while Puerto Quetzal operates 5 million tons a year with 900 employees, and Santo Tomas
operates 4.5 million tons with 1,500 employees. Although the project assisted the Government in drafting
the new legal framework (Ley Portuaria y Maritima), the law has never been enacted. The Law would also
establish a new maritime regulatory authority. By the closing date of the project, the draft law was still
under discussion in the cabinet and among the stakeholders. This activity is currently followed by a
separate technical assistance financed through a Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF).

Private participation in roads. Only one concession has been operating since 1998: the highway from
Palín to Escuintla, which is a segment of an important road between Guatemala and Puerto Quetzal. The
Palín ­ Escuintla highway was constructed by the Government and concessioned to a private company,
with an obligation to operate and maintain the road, and to build an additional US$22 million highway
segment from Escuintla to Puerto Quetzal. Although this is a rather unusual arrangement (the concession
usually involves the construction, operation and maintenance of the same road segment), the Ministry of
Transport regards the four year operating experience with the concession as satisfactory. The
concessioning process, however, was not supported by the project. The bidding process to select the
concessionaire was deficient, as well as the environmental and social assessments.

Postal services

In 1997, the General Directorate of Post and Telegraph Services (Dirección General de Correos y
Telégrafos, DGCT) entered into a five-year management contract with a private operator -- International
Postal Services Ltd. (IPS) from Canada. Under the terms of the contract, IPS was required to provide basic
postal services, known as "Official Mail" (letters up to 20 grams, delivery of all incoming international
mail covered by the Universal Postal Union Convention, telegrams up to 20 words and money orders up to
a value of US$1,000, and the Government's official mail). In return, IPS was to receive a set amount for
each letter processed. Government's objectives for these contracts were:
§ Ensureanacceptablelevelofuniversalpostalservicesfortheentirecountryintermsofaccess,
affordability and quality;
§ ReducetheGovernmentdeficitassociatedwithprovidingtheseservices;and
§ IncreaseprivateparticipationinthepostalsectorofGuatemala.

All these objectives were met. The postal service has improved significantly. All indicators, including
coverage, efficiency and reliability have improved, while the requirements of subsidies were dramatically
reduced:
§ Qualityofserviceimprovements:thereweresignificantimprovementsinthequalityofservice,
including quantifiable reductions in mail processing, transit and delivery times, as well as in customer
claims and inquiries.
§ Productivity:Thecontractorwasabletominimizelabordisputesandsignificantlyincreaseoverall
productivity while improving public perception of the postal service, its employees, and products. Total
staffing was reduced from 2,300 to 940. The contractor has invested in upgrading postal facilities and
management processes.
§ Financial: Fortheyears1995-97,thepostalservicesshowedanoperationaldeficitofUS$23,110,056.
During the first three years of the contract, this deficit was reduced to US$6,364,400.
§ Volume:WhilethevolumeofOfficialMailhandledbyIPShasremainedrelativelystable,themail
handled by IPS outside the contract has increased significantly. In 2001, Official Mail accounted for only
1/7 of the total of 35 million pieces handled by IPS. These remaining 30 million pieces are mainly



                                                      - 16 -

commercial mail.

Despite this progress, however, with the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the subsidies paid to the
private operator for the universal service delivery were set unnecessarily high, given that the business
platform established for the universal service delivery can be used for commercial activities (courier
services etc.). It should be noted, however, that the level of subsidies is still much lower than before the
management contract, while the population at large has benefited from expanded coverage and improved
quality and reliability of the service. Private participation in the postal service is quite rare in developing
countries, and Guatemala can be considered one of the more successful examples.

The main issue, however, is the sustainability of these benefits. The management contract expires in 2003
and its future is uncertain. The project assisted the Government in preparatory works for the new
arrangement ­ the Government was planning to bid out a 10-year concession, but the bidding process has
been delayed due to political opposition in the Congress. Finally, the sector still lacks a new,
comprehensive law (the current law dates back to 1907).

Municipal services

At the request of the Government, the project also financed activities related to municipal infrastructure
(electricity, water and sanitation, and solid waste). These activities, however, were only complementary
and were not a part of original project components. They were added to the original activities on specific
request of the new Administration in 2000. The objective of this sub-component was to analyze
possibilities for improving delivery of municipal infrastructure services through an introduction of private
sector participation. The main problem is the poor financial condition of these municipal companies due to
unsustainably low tariffs and various management and operational deficiencies. The project financed
diagnostic studies and provided initial recommendations for improving the delivery of these services,
involving private sector participation. The problem is particularly serious in the electricity sector, where
14 municipal distribution companies coexist with private concessionaires. These companies are highly
indebted (they owe US$11 million for energy purchases from INDE) and are not able to comply with the
minimum service standards set by CNEE. The most obvious solution would involve an integration of these
small municipal companies with the private concessionaires. However, this would require an approval of
municipal authorities that own these companies. The project has financed diagnostics studies and
organized several workshops to discuss these issues with the municipal authorities and involve them in this
process. Due to various implementation delays, however, no specific results were achieved by the closing
date of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Fiscal Impact (see Annex 3)

The ICR reports only a global ex-post estimate of the benefits of the project because the project
Implementation Unit (PIU) did not deliver the data requested by the Bank for the preparation of a more
detailed analysis of the yield of all the actual benefits and costs incurred by the project. The ICR estimates
project benefits at US$1,321 million (the proceeds of the privatization of EEGSA, GUATEL, DEOCSA
and DEORSA). The PAD estimated project benefits at about US$750 million. It did not account for the
proceeds of the sale of EEGSA. The PAD estimated project costs at about US$40 million corresponding to
the severance packages for the agencies to be affected by a reduction in their work force (mainly GUATEL,
DGCT and ports). The reduction of transfers to the Government caused by privatization of GUATEL was
assumed to be recouped by the corporate tax levied on the new GUATEL, increases in VAT receipts and
the potential expansion of a privatized infrastructure. The ICR did not have access to data on severance



                                                      - 17 -

packages. The ICR considers that the cost of the PPI project should also be added to the cost of
privatization.

Proceeds from the sale of shares of privatized infrastructure (US$million)

Benefits                            ICR                       PAD
GUATEL                              700                       600
DEOCSA and DEORSA                   101                       100
EEGSA                               520                       --
Other infrastructure                  0                        50
TOTAL                            1,321                        750

The US$101 million from privatization of DEOCSA and DEORSA are being used for expanding rural
electrification.

Cost estimate of privatization (US$ million)
Costs                               ICR                       PAD
Severance packages                  *                          40.0
Debt reduction                      *                         250.0
Project cost                        18.5                       18.5
TOTAL                               18.5+                     308.5

Note: (*) Information not provided to the Bank by the Borrower.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not available.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had important institutional development impacts, particularly in the power and
telecommunications sectors. The project contributed to the creation and strengthening of the key
institutions in these sectors, particularly the new regulatory agencies (CNEE and SIT), as well as the
wholesale market operator, AMM. These institutions are now firmly established, staffed adequately and
working satisfactorily. Their autonomy has been respected by the Government (by both administrations).
Less progress was achieved in transport and postal sectors. Despite some capacity-building activities for
the policy-making bodies, the institutional situation of these sectors remain weak. Both policy-making and
regulatory functions for these sectors remain in the Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and
Housing, with weak capacity and inadequate human and financial resources. All matters related to private
sector participation in these two sectors are handled by the Concessions Unit, staffed with only one
professional. In other words, the institutional development impact was significant in the power and
telecommunications sectors, but insignificant in the other sectors. Therefore, the overall institutional
development impact of the project is rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was affected negatively by difficulties in obtaining Congressional approvals. This included a
delay in project effectiveness for over a year, difficulties in passing sector legislation prepared by the
project, and difficulties in approving a budget for the project in its last two years of implementation. This
reflects a lack of broader political support for the project. Failure to secure Congressional approval for the
project's budget (its inclusion in the national budget) in 2002 was the main reason why the Bank could not


                                                      - 18 -

respond positively to Government's late request to consider an additional (second) extension of the loan's
closing date (discussed below).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The weak ownership of the project demonstrated by the Guatemalan Government is the main factor that
contributed to the unsatisfactory implementation of the project and the failure to achieve all its objectives
fully. The previous Administration demonstrated a strong ownership of the project, particularly during the
preparation and in early years of the project. The key sector legislation for electricity and telecom projects
were passed in 1996-1997, and the power and telecommunications companies were privatized by 1998,
before the project could enter into effectiveness. Project implementation slowed in 1999, due to
approaching elections, and the initial pace was never restored. The two Administrations were vocal in
stating they had project ownership but tepid in taking the actions to achieve the project objectives during
the implementation stage. Only by mid-2002, a few weeks before the planned closing date of the project,
the Government's attitude seemed to have changed. The Government approved a new policy document ­
Economic Action Plan 2002-2004, calling for comprehensive reforms and introduction of private
participation in ports, airports, roads and postal sectors. Regrettably, that request was too late to rescue the
project, and the extension did not materialize.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project coordination and administration were centralized in a Presidential commission that adopted several
names (OCMOE, COMODES and lately COPRE) reflecting various Government reorganizations.
COPRE (Comisión Presidencial para la Restructuración del Estado) is the latest name of the project unit.
More important than the change in names, however, were changes in COPRE's roles and responsibilities
that negatively affected project implementation. Initially, OCMOE was an agency in charge of
privatization and policy/regulatory reforms for all infrastructure sectors. The new Administration,
however, changed the agency to COPRE, with the main objective to support the Government's
decentralization efforts. That shifted COPRE's attention away from project implementation, which was no
longer considered its core activity. COPRE also had a major change of director and staff when the new
Administration took office in January 2000. The new staff of COPRE had no experience in managing
technical assistance operations with Bank financing involving a large number of activities to be coordinated
with many Government units. Moreover, COPRE staff was not sufficiently familiar with the Bank's
procurement guidelines, a factor that negatively affected coordination with the UNDP and the Bank. Poor
coordination and lack of interest in the project activities, compounded with procurement problems,
contributed to a very slow pace and near stagnation of the project implementation. Appropriate and timely
training of COPRE staff might have helped to moderate some of these problems.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total project cost estimate was US$18.5 million. At loan closing (August 31, 2002), the
project cost estimate was also US$18.5 million based on the assumption that the Government may later
complete the project without Bank financing. About US$8.0 million have been disbursed from the
US$13.0 million Bank loan to finance studies, training, office technology equipment, the UNDP
procurement agent and project administration. The remainder of the Bank loan will be cancelled once
UNDP submits a final statement of expenditures of the advances received from the Bank. The main
reasons for the lower utilization of the Bank loan were the delays in project implementation. The
Government financed US$5.0 million of the cost of preparing the new Electricity and Telecommunications
Laws, the initial implementation of the power sector reform and the privatization of GUATEL. The Bank
recognized those costs as a retroactive contribution of the Government to project financing. The USAID
co-financed the preparation of the General Electricity Law and the amendment to the Telecommunications
Law with a contribution of US$0.5 million. By the closure of the project, about US$5 million still



                                                     - 19 -

remained undisbursed. At the last minute, in June 2002, the Government requested an extension to finance
its new ambitious reform program for infrastructure sectors, with a particular focus on transport. The
Borrower intended to allocate the remaining of the Bank loan to the activities shown in the table below. In
some sense, this table also indicates the scope of activities that could have been and were not implemented
by the project.

                        Table - Activities not implemented by the project

Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing (MCIVI)
- General Legal & Regulatory Framework for Concessions                          150,000
- Consultants/Advisors and Strengthening of                                     225,000
 Unidad de Concesiones y Desincorporaciones MCIV
- Postal Service Concession                                                     150,000
- Legal & Regulatory Framework Ports/Maritime                                   100,000
- Ports Concessions                                                             625,000
- Strategy for Airports Concession                                              350,000
- Roads Concessions                                                           1,200,000
- Strategy Restructuring of FONDETEL/GUATEL                                     300,000
- Implementation of Rural Telephony/Universal Service                           300,000
        Sub-total                                                             3,400,000

Electricity - Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM)
- Technical Support and Strengthening of Regulator (CNEE)                       300,000
- Technical Support to Implement Rural Electrification Strategy                 150,000
- Strategy for Promotion of PP in Energy Projects                                 50,000
- Concession of INDE Small Hydro and Thermal Plant                              250,000
- Concession of INDE Zunil Geothermal Generation                                250,000
        Sub-total                                                             1,000,000

Training and Knowledge Transfer (Global)                                        300,000
Coordination & Implementation Units (Global)                                    500,000
        Total (US$)                                                          5,200,000


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's achievements in the power and telecommunications sectors is likely
unless the Government, the Congress or extreme political shifts attempt to return these sectors back to state
control ­ a situation considered highly unlikely for the medium term. However, the reform of the power
sector may become partially jeopardized, if the Government yields to political pressure to subsidize retail
tariffs, bypassing CNEE's responsibilities and autonomy in tariff-setting areas. Sustainability of postal
sector achievements remains an issue. Although the management contract produced important
improvements in terms of the coverage, transit time and costs of the universal service, these achievements
may be lost quickly if the postal service goes back to Government control. At the time of this ICR, it is still
uncertain if the Government will succeed in implementing a new PPI arrangement (concession or another
management contract) for this sector. Since little was achieved by the project in the other infrastructure
sectors, there is little to rate on sustainability. All things considered, the sustainability of this incomplete



                                                         - 20 -

project is rated as uncertain.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The sector reforms in telecommunications and electricity sectors, supported by the project, have been
largely concluded and no transitional arrangements to regular operations are necessary. For the postal
sector, the Government has announced its plan to bid-out longer-term concession (up to 10 years). This
policy action, however, still needs to be implemented. In addition, the Government adopted an Economic
Action Plan for 2002-2004, based primarily on reforms and increasing private sector participation in the
transport sector. The tables below depict a summary picture of the Economic Action Plan for the
infrastructure sector and show that most of the works of the Plan and three of the proposed Laws are for
the transport sector.

                     Table - Works included in the Economic Action Plan 2002-2004

Roads Sector
 l Construction of the Metropolitan Ring
 l Construction of North Highway (it could be on the border with Belice or México)
 l Construction of the Tecún Umán Highway to Pedro de Alvarado city
 l Construction of the New Pacific Coast Highway
 l Rehabilitation and enlargement of the Guatemala ­ El Rancho Highway


Ports Sector
 l Santo Tomás de Castilla Port
 l Quetzal Port


Airport Sector
 l Operation of La Aurora International Airport
 l Construction of a New International Airport
 l Operation of the Santa Elena Airport in Peten


Electricity Sector
 l Escuiltla Thermal Power Plant
 l Complete the Central America Interconnection Project
 l Geothermal Fields Zunil I y II
 l Guatemala-Mexico Electrical Interconnection
 l Sale of small hydroelectric stations




                                                   - 21 -

                  Table - Laws proposed in the Economic Action Plan 2002-2004

                         1. Public works comcession framework law
                         2. Production and use of alcohol-based fuel
                         3. Fiscal incentives for energy generation with renewable resources
                         4. Stock and Securities Market
                         5. Non-bank financing intermediaries
                         6. Maritime and Air Authorities
                         7. Non conventional guarantees
                         8. Quality System
                         9. Weight and size of motor vehicles
                         10. Consumer protection
                         11. Promotion of competitiveness
                         12. National Law for public investment


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted before, from the onset the Bank promoted and supported the Government's program of reform
and modernization of the public sector. The identification of the project considered the reform and
rehabilitation of the power sector within the overall program of reform and the Bank's strategy as
established in the CAS. At appraisal the Bank ensured that the objectives and components of the project
were consistent with the overall program and provided the tools to the executing agencies to tackle the
complexity of the project, through training, provision of technological equipment and funds for hiring
consultants. Therefore, the lending performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
In spite of the high rotation of project management (from appraisal to closing of the project there were four
task managers), in general the Borrower received an adequate orientation and support through 11
supervision missions and intensive desk supervision. The supervision missions were less frequent in 1997
due to delays in effectiveness and in 1999 due to elections. Supervision was particularly intensive in 2000
(four supervision missions) when the new Administration assumed office.

In March 1999, the Bank conducted a mid-term review of the project and concluded that the project
objectives could be achieved in spite of the slow implementation progress. In January 2000, the new
Administration assumed office and the new Commissioner of COPRE was named. The Bank has launched
three missions between February and June 2000 to agree with the Government about the action plan for the
project's implementation. The Bank was flexible in introducing a new component for improving municipal
infrastructure services, which the new Administration considered a priority. The Bank then agreed with the
Borrower on an ambitious action plan and a revised project implementation timetable, and extended the
loan closing date by one year until June 30, 2002. The new project management staff was appointed in
September 2000, but the project manager was changed several times. The Bank supervision became
intensive in following up the execution of the action plan. A large amount of Bank staff time was devoted to
provide help with the review of terms of references, and other activities to support the new action plan. The
progress, however, remained slow. In October 2001, the Bank supervision mission concluded that the
project implementation unit was hindering project implementation, unable to respond effectively to requests
from beneficiary agencies. A new project manager was named and the Bank and the Borrower agreed on
new institutional arrangements to speed up the project implementation, giving more responsibilities to



                                                    - 22 -

beneficiary agencies and minimizing the role of COPRE. Project implementation accelerated, but not
enough to compensate for the past delays. In June 2002, only a few weeks before the project closing date,
the Government requested a second extension of the closing date to receive support for its ambitious
transport reform and concessioning program. The Bank gave the Borrower a final opportunity to prepare a
credible rescheduling of pending activities to achieve project development objectives, by extending the loan
closing date by two months until August 31, 2002. However, because the Borrower was unable to fulfill
the Bank requirements, including Congressional approval of a budget for the project, it was not extended
and closed on August 31, 2002. Nevertheless, the Bank remained committed to continuing to support the
Borrower's reform agenda in the transport sector. It has initiated a request for Public-Private
Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) grants for the financing of key activities left unfinished by the
project. In addition, the new Bank Competitiveness project will finance some outstanding activities.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank performance was adequate from the inception of the project until it closed. During the entire
period, the Bank often assisted the Government and COPRE to adjust the project according to new
conditions. The Bank also exercised pressures as means to improve performance and correct delays, for
example, by not immediately accepting requests for extension of the closing date of the loan, until certain
specific conditions were met. All things considered, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. A
2002 QAG Panel assessed Bank supervision as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance was satisfactory during project preparation. It expedited the preparation of the
new General Electricity Law, the approval by the Congress and its enactment in 1996. It also expedited
Congressional approval of the amendments to both the Contracting Law and the Telecommunications Law.
Power and telecommunication assets were privatized before 1998. The Government did this by using its
own resources, amounting to US$5.0 million equivalent, which the Bank later considered as the
Government's retroactive contribution to project financing. Project preparation funds were used to support
the Government in some of these activities. The USAID contributed US$0.5 million to the preparation of
both the new General Electricity Law and the amendment to the Telecommunications Law. A
Bank-managed trust fund was used to assist the Government in the design of the management contract for
the postal services. The Government also established CNEE and SIT. The main problems were related to
delays in loan effectiveness, mainly due to difficulties to achieve Congressional approval. The loan became
effective only in April 1998, one year after the approval by the Bank Board. By that time, all main
privatization transactions were already completed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Initially, the Government's performance was satisfactory during implementation of the first stage of the
power sector reform and the partial privatization of the state-owned electric utilities. The same rating is
applicable to Government performance during the implementation of the first stage of the
telecommunications reform and privatization of TELGUA. However, the Government's performance in the
electricity and telecommunications sectors diminished by 1999, when the election campaign started.
Government performance in implementing the activities to prepare the other infrastructure sectors for
concessions within a sound legal and regulatory framework was unsatisfactory for the duration of project
implementation. Until mid-2002, the Government did not have any official program for reform and private
sector participation in the transport sector. In general, increasing private participation in infrastructure
sectors was not considered a priority by the new administration. In 2000, the Government even briefly
attempted to revise the telecom privatization. By 2001 this issue was resolved and the Government at least
confirmed its commitment to the reforms in telecom and power sectors implemented by the previous



                                                     - 23 -

administration, and in 2002 the Government announced an ambitious program for regulatory reform and
concessions in the transport sector. This progress, however, came too late to have an impact on the project
which closed in August 2002. Borrower performance during project implementation is rated as
unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency was clearly unsatisfactory, and was the main reason for very slow
project disbursement. First, implementation delays and low levels of loan disbursement resulted from
changes in COPRE staff made by the new Administration. A new commissioner was named in January
2000, but the project staff was not appointed until September 2000. The staff was inexperienced in
management of Bank projects and had difficulties in coordinating activities with multiple project
beneficiary agencies (MEM, CNEE, AMM, MICIVI, SIT, FONDETEL). This was exacerbated by the
fact that COPRE's functions shifted from managing reform and privatization to supporting Government's
decentralization reforms. This further decreased the interest of COPRE management in the project, and
attempts to redirect project activities to support these new objectives, at the expense of beneficiary agencies
supported by the project. As a result, even in those cases where there was a clear interest in the project,
commitment to the project objectives, and implementation capacity on the side of the beneficiary agencies
(such as CNEE or MEM), the implementation was hindered by both lack of capacity and excessive
interference (such as in formulation of TORs, choice of consultants etc.) on the side of COPRE. The
implementation improved significantly in 2001 when new implementation arrangements were agreed upon
that gave more power to beneficiary agencies. However, this was too late to affect the overall project
implementation performance significantly. Implementing agency performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
All things considered the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Complexity. A project affecting reforms in many sectors is necessarily a complex operation
requiring the coordination of actions by several Ministries or Units of the Government, all of which usually
do not have the same interest in restructuring or reforms. This was the case in this project where there was
a notable political interest in reforming the power and telecommunications sectors, but not so in the
transport sectors. It would be advisable to avoid project complexity and concentrate the project on few
sectors unless project management capacity is assured.

Implementation challenges of multi-sector projects. Multi-sector projects also present special challenges
for implementation. In general, existence of multiple beneficiaries requires a simplification through
centralizing project implementation in one unit. This, however, may reduce the commitment and ownership
by individual sector agencies. This is exacerbated by the fact that on the Bank side, the supervision
budgets do not often provide sufficient resources for the Bank to carry out intensive dialogue with each
sector and each beneficiary agency. Focusing on fewer sectors might allow a more intensive dialogue on
the sector issues and achieve better results.

Project implementing unit. The Unit in charge of the execution of the project must receive full support and
attention of the Bank's supervision missions at the onset of project execution and when high turnover of
staff occurs, as technical assistance project schedules do not usually provide for much time for on-the-job
training of such units. The same is true for procurement and the setting of sound project accounting and
information systems.




                                                      - 24 -

Restructuring of the Project. Again, project ownership by the Government is of paramount importance in
projects involving radical reforms which are very politically sensitive. As soon as the Bank had detected a
significant or irreversible lack of political support to the project by the Government, the Bank could have
considered more drastic measures, including project restructuring. In this case, such an opportunity to
restructure the project was missed by the Bank in 2001 when the new Administration did not translate its
verbal commitment to the project into actions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower did not provide the Bank with its own project completion report, nor comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not requested.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

See Annex 7.




                                                       - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Favorable assessment from investment       Telecommunications, S               Telecommunications, S
banks and financial consultants on            Power Generation, U                 Power Generation, S
entities/schemes to be concessioned or        Power Distribution, S               Power Distribution, S
privatized.                                   Ports Services, U                   Ports Services, U
                                              Airport, U                          Airport, Not rated
                                              Roads, U                            Roads, U

2.Timely passage of legislation, promulgation CNEE and SIT:                       CNEE and SIT:
of secondary legislation and regulations.     Regulations, S                      Regulations, S
                                              Quality, M                          Quality, M
                                              Regulations, M

3. Adequate performance of regulatory         Power:                              Power:
bodies in terms of timely decision making (in Adequate Tariffs, S                 Adequate Tariffs, S
line with procedures laid down in law), and   Generation, U                       Generation, S
turnover of staff at agencies.                Competition, S                      Competition, S

                                              Telecoms:                           Telecoms:
                                              Open Market, M                      Open Market, M

                                              Concessions:                        Concessions:
                                              Transport, U                        Transport, U
                                              Roads, U                            Roads, U
                                              Ports, U                            Ports, U
                                              Airport, U                          Airport, Not rated
                                              Telecom, M                          Telecom, S




S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; M = Modest

Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Roads:
--Strategy for private investment in road
  l Strategy is in place                      l December 1997                     l Partial
  l Execution of first stage                  l September 1998                    l Partial
  l Execution of second stage                 l June 1999                         l Not done


Postal Service:
--Definition of policy framework to
improve and expand services
  l Policy framework is in place              l July 1997                         l Done

  l Execution of Management Contract          l December 1998                     l Done

  l Postal Service Concession                 l January 1999                      l Not done


--Strengthening of institutional capacity



                                                                - 26 -

    Documents supporting the institutional     l December 2000         l Partial
capacity process. Seminars/ workshops/
procurement of equipment.


Electricity:
--Completion of the power sector reform
   Regulations of the Electricity Law; Norms
and technical regulations of the wholesale     l June2000              l Done

market; Internal regulation of the CNEE.

--Prepare INDE to meet conditions of
power sector reform
    Generation, transmission and distribution
functions of INDE are unbundled.                l April 1998           l Done



--Preparation and execution of the sale of
shares of EEGSA
   Power sector environmental study is
complete; Technical and legal documents for    l April 1998            l Done

the sale of shares of EEGSA are complete.

--Strengthening the institutional capacity
of CNEE and INDE



   Documents supporting the institutional      l December 2000         l Done
capacity process. Seminars/ workshops/
procurement of equipment.


Ports:
--Definition of policy framework to
improve and expand services
  l Proposal for legal reforms; Study on
     load handling and transfer to private     l December 1997         l Partial

     sector; cost analysis, ground access
     and environmental studies completed.
  l Strategy to restructure principal ports.   l March 1998            l Not done


--Execution of strategy
   Technical documents for restructuring of    l August 1998           l Not done
ports; contracts signed for ports identified in
the strategy.


--Strengthening institutional capacity
   Documents supporting the institutional
capacity process. Seminars/workshops           l December 2000         l Not done
procurement of equipment.



Telecommunications:
--Improving capacity to manage the ratio
spectrum

  l Several products to improve                l December 1998         l Done
     radio-spectrum management.
  l Procurement of information software        l December 1997         l Done
     and GIS.




--Increasing administrative capacity to
manage the radio spectrum
   Regulations and Procedures Manuals          l December 1997         l Done
completed.




                                                             - 27 -

--Prepare norms for handling
interconnections, interference and
violations
   Regulations and Procedures Manuals     l December 1997         l Done
completed.




--Strengthening institutional capacity
   Documents supporting the institutional
capacity process -- seminar/ workshops/   l December 2000         l Partial
procurement of equipment.




--Preparation for the sale of GUATEL
assets
   Documents for the sale of GUATEL are   l December 1997         l Done
prepared.



--Support to the fund for the
development and control of the radio
spectrum
   Fund is created and in operation.      l December 2000         l Partial




Cross sector activities:
--Information on the restructuring
process
   Communications campaign exchange       l December 2000         l Partial
visits.



--Promotion and dissemination of
investment opportunities
   Dissemination material.                l December 2000         l Partial




--Follow-up of the reform actions
   OCMOE (COPRE) functioning.             l Continuous            l Partial




1End of project




                                                        - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million    US$ million
Ports                                                         1.80
Road Concessions                                              0.70
Electricity                                                   4.70
Telecommunications                                            5.00
Postal Services                                               1.60
Cross-Sectoral Activities                                     3.80

Total Baseline Cost                                          17.60             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                          0.90
                         Total Project Costs                 18.50             0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   18.50             0.00

Note: Actual costs were not made available by the Borrower.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                 2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.60             0.20          0.10          0.00        1.90
                                  (1.40)            (0.20)       (0.10)         (0.00)      (1.70)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         13.30          0.00        13.30
Consultants                       (0.00)            (0.00)       (8.85)         (0.00)      (8.85)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00          1.70          0.00        1.70
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (1.40)         (0.00)      (1.40)
5. Operating Expenses              0.00             0.00          1.15          0.00        1.15
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.60)         (0.00)      (0.60)
6. Procurement Fee                 0.00             0.00          0.45          0.00        0.45
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.45)         (0.00)      (0.45)
   Total                           1.60             0.20         16.70          0.00        18.50
                                  (1.40)            (0.20)      (11.40)         (0.00)     (13.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2 3     N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.60             0.20         0.10           0.00       1.90
                                  (0.21)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.21)


                                                 - 29 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             13.30             0.00             13.30
   Consultants                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.94)            (0.00)           (3.94)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              1.70             0.00              1.70
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (0.32)
   5. Operating Expenses                   0.00               0.00              1.15             0.00              1.15
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.57)            (0.00)           (0.57)
   6. Procurement Fee                      0.00               0.00              0.45             0.00              0.45
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.12)            (0.00)           (0.12)
       Total                               1.60               0.20             16.70             0.00             18.50
                                          (0.21)             (0.00)            (4.95)            (0.00)           (5.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

      3/ Total costs: an advance of US$2.6 million to UNDP has not been included pending reception of UNDP's Statement of
      its use.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Ports
Road Concessions
Electricity                                              0.25                                0.25                         100.0
Telecommunications                                       0.25                                0.25                         100.0
Postal Services
Cross-Sectoral Activities
Total                         13.00         5.00         0.50        7.76                    0.50       59.7      0.0     100.0




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Fiscal Impact

The ICR reports only a global ex-post estimate of costs and benefits of the project because the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) did not deliver the data requested by the Bank to prepare a more detailed
analysis of the actual benefits yield and costs incurred by the project. The ICR estimates project benefits at
US$1,321 million plus the benefits entailed by the Government's debt reduction. The PAD estimated
project benefits at about US$750 million. Revenues from privatization were to be gained largely from the
sale of shares of EEGSA (US$100 million) and GUATEL (US$600 million expected at appraisal).
Proceeds from private participation in ports were roughly estimated at about US$50 million. US$250
million of the proceeds of privatization were to be used for debt reduction and the remaining US$400
million were to be used for investment in social infrastructure. The PAD estimated project costs at about
US$40 million corresponding to the severance packages for the agencies to be affected by a reduction in
their work-force (mainly GUATEL, DGCT and ports). The reduction of transfers to the Government
caused by the privatization of GUATEL was assumed to be recouped by the corporate tax levied on the
new GUATEL, increases in VAT receipts and the potential expansion of a privatized infrastructure. The
ICR considers that the cost of the PPI project should be added to the cost of privatization.

Proceeds from the sale of shares of privatized infrastructure are summarized below:

Benefits (US$ million)            ICR                       PAD
GUATEL                                     700                      600
DEOCSA and DEORSA:                         101                      100
EEGSA                                      520                      --
Other infrastructure                         0                       50
TOTAL                                    1,321                      750

The US$101 million from privatization of DEOCSA and DEORSA are being used for expanding rural
electrification.

Cost estimate of privatization is summarized below:

Costs (US$ million)                        ICR*                     PAD**
Severance packages:                                                  40
DEOCSA and DEORSA
EEGSA
DGCT
Other infrastructure
Debt reduction                                                      250
Project cost                               18.5                      18.5
TOTAL                                                               308.5

Note: (*) Breakdown not provided by the Borrower. (**) Information partially available in the PAD.




                                                     - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              JULY 1996                 9    TASK MANAGER (1), POWER          S               S
                                             (2), PORTS (2), TELECOM (1),
                                             ROADS (1), POSTAL (1),
                                             LEGAL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              MARCH 1997                3    TELECOM (1); ROADS (1);
                                             POSTAL (1)

 Supervision
              JULY 1997                 2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1)
              APRIL 1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1); POWER          S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PR.
                                             TELECOMS ENGR (1);
                                             POWER ENGR (CONS)(1)
              FEBRUARY 1999             7    TASK MANAGER (1),                S               S
                                             TELECOM (1), GAS (1),
                                             PENSIONS (1), PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR (1), POWER (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              MARCH 1999                3    ENERGY SPECIALIST (1),           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1), SECTOR
                                             LEADER
              FEBRUARY 2000             3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1) , ENERGY
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              MARCH 2000                1    ECONOMIST (1)                    S               S
              MAY 2000                  8    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             GAS SPEC. (1); PENSION
                                             REFORM (1); PSD SPEC. (1);
                                             FMS (1); PSD SECTOR
                                             LEADER (1); ENERGY/PPI
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1)
              DEC 2000                  2    SR. POWER ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR ANALYST
                                             (1)
              OCT 2001                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              FEB 2002                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT



                                              - 32 -

                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               MAY 2002                6    PRIVATE SECTOR (1);               U    U
                                            TELECOMS (1);
                                            ENERGY/TASK MANAGER
                                            (1); TRANSPORT (1); POSTAL
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               MAY 2002               2     TASK MANAGER (1);                 U    U
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            49.3                         280.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   6.1                          17.1
  Supervision                          100.5                         348.6
  ICR                                     2.0                          10.0
  Total                                175.9                         655.8




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

PAD on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$13.0 million Equivalent to the Republic of Guatemala for a
Private Participation in Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan. April 2, 1997.

Minutes of Negotiations, March 19, 1997. Loan Agreement (Private Participation in Infrastructure
Technical Assistance Loan) between Republic of Guatemala and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, dated March 3,1998 and Amendment 1 to Loan Agreement (L-4149), March 26, 1998.
Supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement (L-4149), and its Attachment (Performance Indicators), March
3, 1998.

Project Status Report and associated Aide Memoires (PSR Seq # 1 through Seq # 11). Mid-Term Review
letter from the Bank to the Borrower and attached Aide Memoire.

Correspondence in Project Files. In particular, see Letter to the Borrower dated August 26, 2002 whereby
the Bank states that the loan closing date will not be extended beyond August 31, 2002.

Plan de Acción Económica 2002-2004. Version Preliminar (sujeta a cambios de fondo y forma). Gobierno
de Guatemala, 6 de mayo de 2002.

Ley General de Electricidad, Reglamento de la Ley General de Electricidad, Reglamento del Administrador
del Mercado Mayorista. Comisión Nacional de Energía Eléctrica de Guatemala, C.A. (CNEE).

Normas Técnicas NTSD, NEAST y NTAUCT. Reglamento para dirimir conflictos entre los agentes del
subsector eléctrico. Reglamento para la atención de reclamos y quejas de los usuarios del servicio de
distribución de energía eléctrica. CNEE.

DEOCSA, Informe correspondiente al ejercicio del 1 enero al 31 de diciembre del 2001. Unión Fenosa.

DEORSA, Informe correspondiente al ejercicio del 1 enero al 31 de diciembre del 2001. Unión Fenosa.

Informe Annual 2001, Empresa Eléctrica de Guatemala (EEGSA).

Informe Estadístico 1997, Instituto Nacional de Electrificación.

Memoria de Labores 1997, INDE ­ Instituto Nacional de Electricidad.

Memoria de Labores 1998, Corporación INDE.

Memoria de Labores 1999, Instituto Nacional de Electrificación y sus Empresas.

Memoria de Labores 2000, Instituto Nacional de Electrificación y sus Empresas.

Plan de Electrificación Rural, INDE, Guatemala, Mayo del 2002.

Memoria de Labores 2000-2001, Administrador del Mercado Mayorista de Electricidad.

Informe Estadístico 2001, Mercado Mayorista de Electricidad de Guatemala.




                                                     - 36 -

- 37 -

