Report No. PIC4678
Project Name              Guatemala-Infrastructure Privatization TAL
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Infrastructure
Project ID                GTPA48756
Borrower                  Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency       Office of the Commissioner for the
Modernization of the Executive Branch
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Tel.: 502 363 3133
Fax.: 502 363 3183
Date PID Prepared         January 28, 1997
Projected Appraisal       February 17, 1997
Projected Board Date      April 1997
Background
1.   Country and Sector Background
Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with a 1995 GDP
estimated at US$414.9 billion and per capita income of US$1,310. The
economy is predominantly agricultural, with more than half of the
country's labor force engaged in farming, fishing and forestry. Since
1990 annual GDP growth has averaged 3.9w and inflation has fallen from
60t in 1990 to 8.4w in 1995.
The poor quality of infrastructure service provision and the relatively
low rates of coverage of certain basic services within Guatemala are
viewed by the Government as an impediment to economic growth and to the
equitable distribution of national income. The need to reform the
infrastructure sectors - still largely dominated by public sector
entities - has been recognized for some time. In particular, the
Government sees the need to increase the involvement of the private
sector in infrastructure provision, as a means of improving efficiency
and bringing new capital. As of 1996, the operations of one of the major
ports was in private hands, and around 450 MW of privately-owned power
generating capacity was installed and in production in Guatemala.
2.   Objectives
As part of its overall program to modernize the public sector, the
Government wishes to transform the key infrastructure sectors, through
a program of privatization and concessioning. At the same time, the
Government wishes to establish an appropriate regulatory and legal
framework that will give investors the confidence to put money into
expanding infrastructure service provision, but will protect consumers
from monopoly exploitation. The Government is strongly committed to
this reform as part of its overall economic program. Laws to establish
a legal and regulatory framework for both power and telecommunications



have recently been approved in the Legislative Assembly. The Government
has taken action to remove the managers of the public-sector ports, as
part of its drive to reduce corruption and promote private sector
participation in the ports. A Commissioner to oversee the Government's
efforts in privatization and public sector modernization has been
formally appointed. This commissioner will head up a technical
secretariat, the Commission for Modernization of the Executive Branch,
which will assist the line Ministries and play a key role in dealing
with the Assembly.
3.   Description
The components to be financed under the project include technical
assistance in the areas listed below.
Ports: Cost analysis of port operations. Study of land access to ports
and inter-modal links. Concession design and organization of
concessioning process. Development of new sector law for the ports to
assist in unification of management. Baseline environmental survey for
ports. Study to assess strategy for minor ports. Training for staff to
enhance effectiveness in new regulatory role.
Road Concessioning: provision of strategic advice on road concessioning.
Evaluation of selected candidate routes.
Electricity: Provision of consultant services to establish and implement
the wholesale market. Detailed study for restructuring of INDE.
Implementation of this study, including the separation of the
generation, transmission and distribution businesses of INDE. Strategy
for privatization of EEGSA. Development of detailed regulations
governing wheeling charges and other aspects of regulation. Sectoral
environmental assessment for power sector.
Telecommunications: Radiospectrum: Assistance in the creation of the
frequency register, development of detailed regulations for the part of
the telecoms law related to radiospectrum allocations and use, design of
auction process. Provision of training to develop capacity of
regulatory body on issues of radiospectrum allocation and use. Purchase
of hardware, software required to monitor radiospectrum.
Postal sector: development of concessioning strategy, regulations of
postal sector law, restructuring study for postal entity and training
program.
Cross-sectoral activities: Funding for public information campaigns and
study tours and promotion and dissemination of investment opportunities.
Development and implementation of overall strategy for concessioning and
privatization. Identification of cross-sectoral issues in concessioning
and regulation. Funds for additional privatization requirements.
Financing of project implementation unit.
In addition, the IDB will be financing a component related to airports
concessioning and privatization, the restructuring and privatizing of
GUATEL, the state-owned telecommunications company, and strengthening of
the telecommunications regulatory entity, providing training and
capacity-building activities for the CNEE and in the sale of the assets
of EEGSA.
4.   Financing
Including the component to be financed by the IDB, the total project
- 2-



cost will be approximately US$18.2 million. Of this, US$1.8 million will
be financed by the Government of Guatemala, US$4.1 million will be
financed by the IDB, US$0. million by USAID and US$12.0 million by the
World Bank.
5.   Implementation
Overall project implementation would be undertaken by the Commissioner
for Modernization of the Executive Branch. A Presidential Decree
establishing the roles and responsibilities of this Commissioner was
published November 28, 1996. This decree states that the Commissioner
has overall responsibility for privatization efforts (deciding on timing
of privatizations, and other strategic decisions), and will, in addition
be in charge of public sector modernization efforts.
6.   Sustainability
The high likelihood of sustainability is evidenced by the Government's
commitment to the process of privatization in the infrastructure
sectors. The strength of this commitment is shown by: (a) recent actions
taken to improve management and speed up the process of concessioning in
the ports and to concession the railway; (b) the recent passage by the
Assembly of legislation to provide a legal and regulatory framework for
the power and telecommunications sectors; and (c) the appointment of a
Commissioner for the Modernization of the Executive Branch, under the
Vice-President, to head the Government's reform efforts. The range of
commitment throughout the Government is impressive (see Section 4
above). It includes the line Ministries, in addition to the group
established under the Vice Presidency, as well as the heads of GUATEL,
EEGSA and INDE.
7.   Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Past experience with privatization and restructuring of the
infrastructure sector in Guatemala shows the importance of winning the
support of the legislative body. Therefore, the coordination component
of the project will play a vital role in: (i) building a consensus on
the need for infrastructure reform within the Assembly; and (ii)
ensuring consistent and transparent treatment of concessioning and
privatization. Experience in Guatemala also shows the need to have the
support of the trade unions and affected workers through: (i)
participation in share offerings; and (ii) the provision of satisfactory
redundancy packages.
The main lessons from countries which have successfully implemented
major privatization programs, such as Bolivia, Peru and Argentina are
that: (i) the process needs to be managed by a single unit and there
needs to be close coordination of efforts across sectors, to ensure that
there is proper sequencing of privatization initiatives and that there
is cross-sectoral learning in privatization efforts; (ii) there need to
be transparent mechanisms for the award of bids; and (iii) there needs
to be a relatively clearly defined legal and regulatory framework for
the sector.
More generally, successful technical assistance projects require: (i)
-3 -



strong Government commitment and ownership of the project; (ii) an
adequate design for the implementation of the project; and (iii)
readiness for implementation of the project. The Government's
commitment to the program of privatization has been shown by its actions
to date (see Section 6) and the implementation structure (Section 5)
seems adequate. Development of, and agreement upon, the terms of
reference for the individual studies and consulting assistance to be
provided under the project will be undertaken before project
negotiations.
8.   Poverty Category
Not applicable.
9.   Environmental Aspects
The project is presently rated as a Category B project given that it
will provide technical assistance to assist in the process of
concessioning or privatizing facilities in the ports, power and highway
construction sectors. The proposed privatization of power, ports and
highways construction raises the issue of whether: (i) there are
existing environmental issues to be addressed; and (ii) there are
adequate guidelines and systems in place to monitor compliance with
these guidelines. Given the need to provide both environmental audits of
facilities to be concessioned and/or privatized, and to establish clear
guidelines and regulations relating to environmental impact and as well
to build local capacity for monitoring environmental impacts, the
project will fund a series of Sectoral Environmental Assessments (SEAs)
for the ports, power and highways components of the project.
10. Program Objective Categories
This project will address both the issues of private sector
participation, through the program of concessioning and privatization to
be assisted by the project, and economic management, through
establishing and strengthening regulatory bodies.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 4 -



