Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4149-GU
Loan Agreement
(Private Participation in Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 3, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4149-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the United States Agency for 
International Development (the USAID) a grant (the USAID Grant) in an amount of 
$600,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and USAID; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
Page  2
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days; or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Contracting Law” means Decree (Decreto) No. 57-92 of the Borrower dated 
October 5, 1992 and published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on October 27, 
1992 which regulates, inter alia, the granting of concessions by the Borrower to  the 
private sector, as such law has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
“Electricity Law” means Decree (Decreto) No. 93-96 of the Borrower dated 
October 16, 1996 and published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on November 
15, 1996 which regulates, inter alia, the generation, transmission and distribution of 
electricity in the territory of the Borrower, as such law has been amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(c)
“Executing Agency” means the office of the Commissioner for the 
Modernization of the Executive Branch and the Public Administration (Comisionado 
Presidencial para la Modernización del Organismo Ejecutivo y de la Administración 
Pública) established by the Borrower pursuant to the Executive Decree (as defined 
below);
(d)
“Executive Decree” means Executive Decree (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No. 
493-96 of the Borrower dated November 21, 1996 and published in the official gazette 
(Diario Oficial) on November 28, 1996, as such Executive Decree has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(e)
“INDE” means the National Institute of Electrification (Instituto 
Nacional de Electrificación) of the Borrower established pursuant to Decree (Decreto) 
No. 64-94 dated December 7, 1994 and published in the official gazette (Diario 
Oficial) on February 20, 1995, as such Decree has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;  
(f)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators of Project inputs, outputs 
and impact contained in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date 
herewith, as such indicators may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank;
Page  3
(g)
“Procurement Agent” means the United Nations Development Programme which 
will assist the Borrower in matters related to the procurement of goods and services 
under the Project;
(h)
“Procurement Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.11 
of this Agreement;
(i)
“Regulatory Agencies” means the Borrower’s National Commission of Energy 
(Comisión Nacional de Energía Eléctrica), the Superintendency of Telecommunications 
(Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones)  or any other regulatory agency acceptable to 
the Bank;
(j)
“Sectoral Entities” means the state-owned entities with legal personality 
under the jurisdiction of the Sectoral Ministries which will be benefited under the 
Project; 
(k)
“Sectoral Ministries” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Mines 
(Ministerio de Energía y Minas), the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public 
Works (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transportes y Obras Públicas) or any other 
ministry acceptable to the Bank; and
(l)
“Telecommunications Law” means Decree (Decreto) No. 94-96 of the Borrower 
dated October 17, 1996 and published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on 
November 18, 1996 which establishes, inter alia, the legal framework to carry out 
telecommunications activities within the telecommunications sector, as such law has 
been amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen 
million Dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15  
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out  the Project, through the Executing Agency and in coordination with the Sectoral 
Ministries and the Sectoral Entities, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, management, 
Page  4
administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the Performance Indicators. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) not 
later than July 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1997, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request with respect to the activities to be carried out under the 
Project during the twelve months following the date of presentation of each such plan; 
and (b) thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, the corresponding plan in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall, not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, starting in January 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the 
progress made in the carrying out of the Project during the six months preceding the 
date of presentation of each such report.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the 
implementation of the Project the Executing Agency with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of the Executing 
Agency to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Executing Agency is at all time 
comprised of staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than February 28 of each year during 
Project implementation, starting in February 1998, review jointly with the Bank the 
corresponding reports mentioned in Section 3.06 of this Agreement in order to 
determine the progress made in carrying out the Project and in achieving the 
objectives of the Project.  As part of each such review the Bank may require the 
Borrower to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in 
Project implementation. If so, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than forty five 
calendar days after the conclusion of the review in question prepare and furnish to 
the Bank such action plan; and (b) thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 3.09. After the selection of the roads that would be concessioned to, or 
contracted out with, a private entity as referred to in Part A.1 (d) of the Project 
and as part of the environmental and social assessments to be carried out under Part 
A.3 (b) of the Project with respect to each such road, the Borrower shall: (a) address 
in a manner and under terms satisfactory to the Bank (prior to the commencement of any 
works in the corresponding road) any potential negative environmental and/or social 
impact on the communities and/or groups living in the area where such roads would be 
located; and (b) include in the bidding documents for the concessioning or contracting 
Page  5
of each such road the obligation of: (i) the bidder to: (A) take (prior to the 
commencement of any works in the corresponding road) the actions, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to address any potential negative environmental impact resulting from the 
environmental assessment mentioned herein; and (B) carry out such works in accordance 
with acceptable environmental practices; and (ii) the Borrower, if applicable, to take 
the actions, satisfactory to the Bank, to address in a manner and under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank any potential negative social impact resulting from the 
social assessments mentioned herein.
Section 3.10. The environmental assessments referred to in Part A.3 (a) of the 
Project shall be carried out prior to: (a) the granting of a concession to, or the 
contracting out with, any private entity with respect to activities or services within 
the port and power sectors; or (b) the sale of assets or the restructuring of a 
state-owned entity operating under the power sector. 
Section 3.11. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than three months after the Effective Date 
enter into an agreement (the Procurement Agreement) with the Procurement Agent under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the obligation of the 
Procurement Agent to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods and services 
under the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
assign, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Procurement Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That the Contracting Law, the Electricity Law or the Telecommunications 
Law or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, 
waived or not enforced so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
(b)
That the Executive Decree or any provision thereof shall have expired or 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as 
to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out the Project.
(c)
That the legal framework referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the 
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
(d)
The USAID Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by July 
31, 1997, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant (including the USAID Grant) or  loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the 
terms of any such agreement providing 
therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement 
(including the USAID Grant 
Agreement); and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of such Section.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Executing Agency has been staffed as provided in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date June 1, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Guatemala City, Republic of Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn 
President
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part A.4
1,600,000
100% of foreign 
of the 
Project
expenditures and
90% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services:
(a) under Part A.1 (a) 
  200,000)
(ii) of the Project 
         )
  )
100%
(b) under Parts A.1 
  )
(a) (i), (b), (c), 
  )
    (d) and (e), A.3   
8,550,000)
and B.1,B.2 and B.3 
  )
    of the Project
  )
  )
(c) under Part B.4 of 
  100,000)
  the Project
(3)
Training under Parts A.5
1,500,000
100%
and B.2 of the Project
(4)
Operating Costs
  600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(5)
Procurement Fee
  450,000
100%
TOTAL
      13,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred in connection with the provision of training activities under the 
Project, including travel cost  and per-diem of the trainees; 
(d)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Executing 
Agency in connection with the carrying out of its functions under the Project, 
including inter alia, the acquisition and utilization of office supplies and the cost 
of office rent and utilities; and 
(e)
the term  “Procurement Fee” means the fee to be paid to the Procurement 
Page  9
Agent under the terms and conditions of the Procurement Agreement. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,300,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) (b) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 13, 1997; 
and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (a) of the table in 
paragraph 1 hereof for the financing of the preparatory activities to restructure INDE 
under Part A.1 (a) (ii) of the Project unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, which demonstrates that the legal framework 
required to carry out the restructuring of INDE is in full force and effect.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first two contracts to be 
awarded during Project implementation under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; (b) contracts for consulting firms services costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants services costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) Training and Operating Costs as set forth in 
Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof, respectively, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) promoting 
private sector development; (b) developing a sound legal and regulatory framework in 
support of the objective mentioned in (a) herein; and (c) strengthening the Sectoral 
Ministries and Regulatory Agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sector-specific Assistance
1. 
Provision of legal, financial, engineering, environmental and economic technical 
assistance to the Borrower to foster private sector participation (through, inter 
alia, concessions and contracts) and, where applicable, to develop and implement the 
regulatory framework in: (a) the electric power sector including the: (i) carrying out 
of studies to determine the different possibilities for restructuring INDE; and (ii) 
assistance to prepare INDE for its restructuring; (b) the ports sector; (c) the postal 
sector; (d) the transport sector (with respect to roads); and (e) the 
telecommunications sector (other than the activity referred to in Part A.2 below).
2.
Carrying out of preparatory activities for the sale of the assets of the 
telecommunications state-owned entity.
3.
Carrying out of: (a) environmental assessments of the power sector and the port 
sector; and (b) environmental and social assessments of the transport sector (with 
respect to roads). 
4.
Acquisition and utilization of goods for the Regulatory Agencies.
5.
Provision of training to the staff of the Regulatory Agencies and Sectoral 
Ministries in support of the private sector participation initiatives referred to in 
Part A.1 above.
Part B:
Cross-sectoral Assistance
1.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to: (a) develop and carry out 
Page  10
a public information campaign on the private sector participation initiatives in the 
sectors mentioned in Part A.1 above or in any other sector provided in B.2 below; and 
(b) design and carry out promotional activities for the private sector participation 
initiatives mentioned in Part A.1 above.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Borrower and its staff, 
respectively, to undertake preparation for private sector participation in areas, 
acceptable to the Bank, not included under Part A.1 above. 
3.
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the Executing Agency.
4.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to carry out  audits under the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000. 
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
Page  11
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
Page  12
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after May, 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
 Goods  estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of all goods under Part C.1 (a) above, shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
International and National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
Page  13
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B of this 
Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 of 
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for assisting the Borrower under Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assisting the Borrower under Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Procurement agency services to be provided under the Project pursuant to the 
Procurement Agreement may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for assisting the Borrower under Parts A.1, A.3, B.1, B.2 and B.3 of 
the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
Page  14
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded under Parts B and C.1  
of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than 
the equivalent of $600,000; and (ii) each contract to be awarded under Part C.4 of 
this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Parts B and C.1 of this 
Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $600,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded under Part C.2 of this 
Section; and (ii) each contract to be awarded under Part C.4 of this Section estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the Bank shall review and approve the terms of 
reference for each such contracts prior to the award of each such contract.
(d)
With respect to the contract to be awarded under Part C.3 of this 
Section, the Bank shall review and approve the terms of reference, the request for 
proposal, the technical and financial proposals and the final draft of the contract 
prior to the award of such contract.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
