Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4393-MV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Mobile Phone Banking Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4393-MV 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 23, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MALDIVES (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to four 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,900,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
Page  3
2
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) t
he
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Financing 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project Implementing Entity will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Association to the Recipient; and 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following: the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity.  
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following: the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
Page  4
3
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the 
Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Ameenee Magu 
Malé 20379 
Republic of Maldives 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(960) 3324432 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at, Male, Republic of Maldives, and District of Columbia, United 
States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
By 
/s/ H.E. Qasim Ibrahim 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Marco 
Scuriatti, 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to significantly increase the use of banking system 
transactions for effecting or receiving payments for labor, goods and services nationwide 
through the implementation of a national inter-operable payment system that facilitates 
access to financial services and allows users access to their bank accounts using any 
mobile phone operator and cashing through any banking agent. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
Maldives Interoperable Payments System 
Create and implement a MIPS which will include: (a) a Mobile Payment System; 
(b) a Real Time Gross Settlement System; (c) an Automated Clearing House 
System; and (d) an EFTPOS/ATM front end processing system. 
 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Develop and implement a legal and regulatory framework for the MIPS. 
 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity of the Recipient, the Project Implementing Entity, and 
bank personnel and agents through the provision of training to implement: (a) the 
legal and regulatory framework for the MIPS; and (b) the MIPS. 
 
3. 
Establish a network of bank agents to be located in each of the populated islands 
within the territory of the Recipient. 
 
4. 
Design and implement a public education campaign to support a successful 
mobile phone banking system. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to implement the 
Operations Manual for the implementation of the Project. 
2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that its representatives attend all meetings of the 
Policy Steering Committee and the Advisory Committee. 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity: (a) establish and 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a MPBU 
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) takes such actions to establish an 
independent MIPS Business Unit by December 31, 2011.
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity through a loan. 
2. 
The Loan will be made available through the Subsidiary Agreement under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The lending terms of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include: 
(a) 
the principal amount lo be made available as a loan in United States 
Dollars (determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Financing Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn;   
(b) 
repayment of the proceeds of the Loan over a period of forty years (40) 
 
years, inclusive of a grace period of ten (10) years;  
(c) 
payment of interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
 
outstanding from time to time at the rate payable by the Recipient
 
pursuant to Schedule 3 of this Agreement; and  
(d) 
payment of a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn Balance at the rate 
 
payable by the Recipient pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
Page  8
7
4. 
Other terms of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and 
social and environmental standards acceptable to the Association, and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for the purpose;  
 
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to procure the goods, 
works and consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and consultants’ services 
exclusively in the carrying out the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to enable the Recipient 
and the Association to inspect such goods and the sites and works 
included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents; 
 
(d) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, 
without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable to replace or 
repair such goods; 
 
(e) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall, in relation to the Project, undertake 
to: 
 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition; 
 
(ii) 
retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Project until 
at least the later of: (i) one (1) year after the Recipient and the 
Association have received the audited financial statements 
covering the period during which the last withdrawal from the 
Financing Account was made; and (ii) two (2) years after the 
Closing Date;  
 
Page  9
8
(iii) 
enable the Recipient representatives 
and the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records; 
 
(iv) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(v) 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(vi) 
furnish to the Recipient and the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited; an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors in such scope and detail as the 
Recipient and the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and all such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Recipient and the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such 
other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Recipient 
and the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(f) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Recipient and the Association the carrying out 
of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Recipient and the Association for their review, 
consolidation in the Project Reports and submission to the 
Association, quarterly reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (f) on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of each such report;  
 
Page  10
9
(iii) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, and such  audited 
financial statements shall be furnished to the Recipient and the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the 
period; and  
(g) 
the Recipient shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
Project Implementing Entity to the use of the proceeds of the Loan made 
available under the Subsidiary Agreement with said Project 
Implementing Entity upon failure by such Project Implementing Entity to 
perform its obligations under such agreement.    
5. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
or cause to be prepared Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule 2.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  11
10
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for procurement of goods and non-consultant services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used for such methods of procurement and shall be subject to prior review by 
the Association.  
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
Page  12
11
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
wh
ich may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed. 
Page  13
12
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, C
onsultants’ 
Services, Training and 
Workshops, and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs  
4,900,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
4,900,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed three hundred twenty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 320,000) may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after December 17, 2007, for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Page  14
13
 
ANNEX 
TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Indicators 
 
1. 
Project Outcome Indicators:
 
(a) 
A large proportion of the adult population will have a phone account          
(>75% of adults will have a phone account by the end of the project 
period). 
 
(b) 
A large proportion of the adult population will have a regular bank 
account that can be accessed from their mobile phone account (>70% of 
adults will have a regular bank account by the end of the project period). 
 
(c) 
A large share of salary and supply chain payments will be effectuated 
electronically directly into people’s bank accounts that in turn can be 
accessed through mobile phone accounts.  
 
(d) 
The amount of cash in circulation (M1) will decline as more transactions 
are made electronically (the amount of cash in circulation will begin to 
decline in the second year after the mobile payments system becomes 
fully functional).  
 
(e) 
An appropriate legal and regulatory system will be in place for mobile 
phone transactions (a general framework regulation covering all 
necessary topics will be in place by the time transactions in the system 
begin). 
 
(f) 
Everyone with a phone account will be able to deposit and withdraw 
reasonable amounts of cash from their accounts anywhere in the country. 
 
2. 
Project Output Indicators:   
 
(a) 
70% of salary to public sector will be effectuated electronically directly 
into people’s bank accounts that in turn can be accessed through mobile 
phone accounts.  
 
(b) 
100% of the populated islands by end of the project will have at least one 
local agent at which mobile phone accounts can be opened. 
 
(c) 
60% of the fishing boat load purchases by processing plants and official 
trading companies will be paid electronically. 
 
Page  15
14
 
(d) 
An appropriate legal and regulatory framework for mobile phone 
banking and a national payments system will be designed by 
 
December 31, 2008. 
 
(e) 
100% of the people with a mobile phone account will be able to deposit 
cash and withdraw reasonable amounts of cash from their accounts 
anywhere in the country. 
 
(f) 
Regulations for implementation of the mobile phone banking and 
payment system will be finalized before MPS transactions under the 
Project commences.   
Page  16
15
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Commencing September 15, 2018 to and including 
March 15, 2028 
 
1% 
Commencing September 15, 2028 to and including 
March 15, 2048 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
16
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Automated Clearing House System” and the acronym “ACH” mean a system in 
which funds may be electronically transferred from one party to another through 
the individual parties’ banks, where involved parties do not need to use the same 
bank; it is a batch oriented, computer based clearing system used for the 
interchange of batches of electronic debits instruments among participating 
financial institutions for high volume, predominantly small value payments.  
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Department of National Registration” means the Recipient’s Department of 
National Registration and any successor thereto.   
6. 
“Electronic Fund Transfer at the Point of Sale/Automated Teller Machine front 
end processing system” and the acronym “EFTPOS/ATM front end processing 
system” mean a continuously available secure, real-time system capable of 
supporting automatic teller machines, electronic funds transfer point of sales 
devices, interfaces to international payment systems providers, interfaces to 
participant banks and receiving, authorizing, processing, switching of payment 
requests and administrative messages between the connected devices and 
institutions. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
8. 
“Incremental Operating Costs”  means reasonable expenditures directly related to 
the Project incurred by the Recipient (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for Project staff travel and 
per diem, office supplies, communications services (including telephone and 
internet costs), publication services, translation services, maintenance of office 
equipment, and rental of vehicles, but excluding salaries of officials and 
employees of the Recipient.  
Page  18
17
 
9. 
“Maldives Interoperable Payments System” and the acronym “MIPS” mean a 
payment system that will inter-operate with all local mobile network operators 
and integrating all the banks in the Recipient’s territory; it is an integrated 
solution based on a set of components including a SI component, a RTGS, an 
ACH and a MPS component. 
10. 
“Maldives Monetary Authority” and the acronym “MMA” mean the monetary 
authority established by the Recipient under the Maldives Monetary Authority 
Act 1981, and any successor thereof. 
 
11. 
“MIPS Business Unit” means an independent entity to succeed to the MPBU 
when it becomes self-sustainable, with the same functions and responsibilities 
held by the MPBU. 
12. 
“Mobile Payments System” and the acronym “MPS” mean a single currency 
payment system operating in Rufiyaa that will inter-operate with all local mobile 
network operators and integrate all the banks in the Recipient’s territory; it 
provides facilities for all mobile phone subscribers to enrol in the system, create 
accounts, credit the accounts and pay using these accounts over the air (through 
the mobile handsets) and for the participating banks to manage the subscribers 
accounts and the funds held in these accounts. 
13. 
“Mobile Phone Banking Unit” and the acronym “MPBU” mean the unit, within 
the Project Implementing Agency, which will be responsible for the day-to-day 
implementation of the Project. 
14. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such manual may be revised from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Association. 
15. 
“Project Advisory Committee” means the committee chaired by the MMA 
Governor, which will, 
inter alia
,
be
a
forum for discussion with representation 
including representatives of: the Recipient, the Project Implementing Entity, the 
financial institutions participating in the MIPS and the telecom operators 
participating in the MIPS. 
16. 
“Policy Steering Committee” means the committee chaired by the MMA 
Governor, which will (a) comprise representatives of the Recipient, of the Project 
Implementing Entity and of other government agencies, and (b) 
inter alia
,
provide overall guidance on the Project. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
Page  19
18
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated February 
27, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Maldives Monetary Authority. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Maldives Monetary 
Authority Act 1981. 
 
21. 
“Real Time Gross Settlement System” and the acronym “RTGS” mean an on-line 
collateralized settlement system for settlement of large value funds transfers in 
Participating Banks. The RTGS will facilitate business-to-business, government-
to-government, and bank-to-bank payments. 
 
22. 
“Rufiyaa” means the currency of the Recipient. 
 
23. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
24. 
“Systems Integration” and the acronym “SI” mean the provision of the 
equipment and services required to install, customize and run the MIPS system at 
the main site as well as at a designated disaster recovery site.  
25. 
“Training and Workshops” means expenditures for the cost of training materials, 
facilities, course fees, travel and subsistence for trainees and trainers.
 
