                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00003034



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-43930)



                                         ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.90 MILLION
                       (US$ 7.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES

                                         FOR A

                MALDIVES MOBILE PHONE BANKING PROJECT



                                   June 10, 2014




Finance and Private Sector Development
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 20, 2014)

                     Currency Unit = Maldivian Rufiyaa (Rf)
                              Rf 1.00 = US$0.065
                              US$1.00 = Rf 15.35

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1–December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACH        Automated Clearing House
AML        Anti-Money Laundering
API        Application Programming Interfaces
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
ARCS       Audit Report Compliant Systems
ATM        Automated Teller Machine
BML        Bank of Maldives
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
C2P        Clear2Pay
CBSL       Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFT        Combating the Financing of Terrorism
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
CMDA       Capital Market Development Authority
CPI        Consumer Price Index
CRIB       Credit Information Bureau
CTI        Cheque Truncation and Imaging
Dhiraagu   Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Pvt Ltd
DO         Development Objective
DR         Disaster Recovery
EDGE       Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution
EFT        Electronic Funds Transfer
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMD        Emerging Markets Digital
EOI        Expression of Interest
FIRR       Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIU        Financial Intelligence Unit
FM         Financial Management
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOM        Government of Maldives
GSM        Global Systems for Mobile Communication
HSBC       Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA     Investment Climate Assessment
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFR     International Financial Reporting
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IP      Implementation Progress
KIS     Keep it Simple
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
LOA     Loans Department
LVFT    Large-Value Funds Transfer
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MFLC    Maldives Finance Leasing Company
MFS     Mobile Financial Systems
MIC     Middle Income Status
MIPS    Maldives Interoperable Payments System
MMA     Maldives Monetary Authority
MNO     Mobile Network Operators
MOFT    Ministry of Finance and Treasury
MPBP    Mobile Phone Banking Project
MRTGS   Maldives Real Time Gross Settlement
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MPS     Mobile Payment System
NDB     National Development Bank
NDP     National Development Plan
NPV     Net Present Value
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAC     Project Advisory Committee
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAS     Public Accounting System
PCI     Payment Card Industry
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PFMS    Public Financial Management System
PIN     Personal Identification Number
POS     Point of Sale
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC     Policy Steering Committee
Rf      Maldivian Rufiyaas
RTGS    Real Time Gross Settlement
SBD     Standard Bidding Document
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SIM     Subscriber Identity Modules
SME     Small and Medium Enterprises
SMS     Short Message Services
SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
SOV     Store-Of-Value
SWIFT   Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
TAM     Telecom Authority of Maldives
TEB     Tender Evaluation Board
TEC     Technical Evaluation Committee
TTL     Task Team Leader
UAT     User Acceptance Testing
USSD    Unstructured Supplementary Service Data
WAP     Wireless Applications Protocol




                        Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                      Country Director: Francoise Clottes
                       Sector Manager: Henry K. Bagazonzya
                  Project Team Leader: Sriyani M. Hulugalle, Stephen Rasmussen
                     ICR Team Leader: Thyra A. Riley
                  ICR Primary Author: Shamsuddin Ahmad
                                           REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                                           Mobile Phone Banking Project


                                                          CONTENTS
Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 13 
4.  Assessment of Risk-to-Development Outcome ......................................................... 18 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 18 
6.  Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 23 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 25 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 32 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 33 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 34 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 40 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 41 
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 42 
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Maldives Mobile Phone
Country:                Maldives                Project Name:
                                                                       Banking Project
Project ID:             P107981                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-43930
ICR Date:               04/28/2014              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 4.90M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.92M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.92M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Maldives Monetary Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/12/2007     Effectiveness:          09/26/2008       09/26/2008
                                                                              05/08/2012
Appraisal:            12/03/2007     Restructuring(s):
                                                                              12/23/2013
Approval:             04/17/2008     Mid-term Review:        04/15/2010       10/26/2010
                                     Closing:                06/30/2012       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:         Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                               Unsatisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              7                   12
Central government administration                                     7                  10
Payments, settlements, and remittance systems                        86                  78


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Financial Sector Development                                   67                  64
Regulation and competition policy                                    33                  36

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Francoise Clottes                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Henry K Bagazonzya                  Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:       Sriyani M. Hulugalle                Sriyani M. Hulugalle
ICR Team Leader:           Thyra A. Riley
ICR Primary Author:        Shamsuddin Ahmad


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to significantly increase the use of banking system
transactions for effecting or receiving payments for labor, goods and services nationwide
through the implementation of a national inter-operable payments system that facilitates
access to financial services and allows users access to their bank account using any
mobile phone operator and cashing through any banking agent.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

None


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
                  A large proportion of the adult population will have a phone account (more than
Indicator 1 :
                  75% of adults will have a phone account by the end of the project period.)
Value
quantitative or   0 percent                 75 percent                        0 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2013                        03/20/2014
Comments
                  Not achieved. Nobody has a phone account as the Mobile Payment System could
(incl. %
                  not be operationalized.
achievement)
                A large proportion of the adult population will have a regular bank account that
Indicator 2 :   can be accessed from their mobile phone account (more than 70% of adults will
                have a regular bank account by the end of the project period).
                                                                               Only those
                                                                               customers of the
                                                                               Bank of Maldives
                                                                               that have a smart
Value
                                                                               phone can access
quantitative or 40 percent                 70 percent
                                                                               their Bank of
Qualitative)
                                                                               Maldives account
                                                                               from their mobile
                                                                               phone using the
                                                                               internet.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                          03/20/2014
                Not achieved. The baseline figure represents the percentage of the population
Comments
                with bank accounts in December 2007, which were to be linked automatically to
(incl. %
                the MPS. As the MPS could not be operationlized, these accounts could not be
achievement)
                linked.
                A large share of salary and supply chain payments will be effected electronically
                directly into people's bank accounts that in turn can be accessed through mobile
Indicator 3 :
                phone accounts (more than 50% of fishing boat-load purchases by processing
                plants).
                                                                               All government
                                                                               salaries and pension
Value                                                                          payments are made
quantitative or 40 percent                 70 percent                          electronically
Qualitative)                                                                   directly into the
                                                                               beneficiaries’ bank
                                                                               accounts through
                                                                              the Automated
                                                                              Clearing House.
                                                                              However, most of
                                                                              these accounts
                                                                              cannot be accessed
                                                                              through mobile
                                                                              phones.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    12/31/2013                        03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved. The Mobile Payment System could not be operationalized.
achievement)
                The total amount of cash in circulation (M1) will decline as more transactions are
Indicator 4 : made electronically (the amount of cash in circulation will begin to decline in the
                second year after the mobile payments system becomes fully functional).
Value                                                                           MVR 3,151.3
                                            MVR 1,000
quantitative or MVR 1,049 million                                               million as in
                                            million
Qualitative)                                                                    January 2014.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    12/31/2013                          03/20/2014
Comments
                Not achieved. Cash in circulation has not declined as the Mobile Payment
(incl. %
                System is not operational.
achievement)
                An appropriate legal and regulatory system will be in place for mobile phone
Indicator 5 : transactions (a general framework regulation covering all necessary topics will
                be in place by the time transactions in the system begin).
                                            Payments System
                                            Law;
                                            Anti-Money                          Payment System
Value                                       Laundering Law;                     Regulation; Anti-
quantitative or No regulation in place. Electronic Fund                         Money Laundering
Qualitative)                                Transfer Act; and                   Regulation;
                                            Consumer                            issued.
                                            Protection Act, are
                                            in effect.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    12/31/2013                          03/20/2014
Comments
                Not achieved. None of the planned and drafted laws have been passed. MMA
(incl. %
                has issued only two regulations.
achievement)
                Everyone with a phone account will be able to deposit and withdraw reasonable
                amounts of cash from their accounts anywhere in the country (all populated
Indicator 6 :
                islands will have at least one agent with cash in/cash out facilities by the end of
                the project.)
                0 percent of the
Value
                population can deposit
quantitative or                             100 percent.                        0 percent.
                and withdraw cash from
Qualitative)
                their phone accounts.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    12/31/2013                          03/20/2014
Comments
                Not achieved. Nobody can cash in/cash out using mobile phones as the Mobile
(incl. %
                Payment System is not operational.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of population with a mobile phone account.
Value
(quantitative   0 percent.                75 percent                        0 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved. The Mobile Payment System could not be operationalized.
achievement)
                Percentage of populated island with a local agent at which mobile phone
Indicator 2 :
                accounts can be opened.
Value
(quantitative   0 percent.                100 percent.                      0 percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
                Not achieved. Local agents could not be appointed as the MPS could not be
(incl. %
                operationalized.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Percentage of adult population with a regular bank account.
Value
                                                                            Almost 100
(quantitative   40 percent.               70 percent.
                                                                            percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
                Achieved. The Bank of Maldives has 211,457 bank accounts of individual
(incl. %
                Maldivians, which is more than 100% of the adult population.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Percentage of salaries paid by resort owners electronically.
Value
(quantitative   20 percent                70 percent                        0 percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
                Not achieved. The baseline figure represents the percentage of resort owners that
(incl. %
                would have automatically moved to MPS. However, it did not happen.
achievement)
                Percentage of fishing boat-load purchases by processing plants and official
Indicator 5 :
                trading companies paid for electronically.
Value
(quantitative   Less than 5 percent       60 percent                        Less than 5 percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved. No payments can be effected through mobile phones.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Amount of cash in circulation.
Value                                                                        MVR 3, 151.3
(quantitative     MVR1,049 million          MVR1,000 million                 million as on
or Qualitative)                                                              January 31, 2014.
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2013                       03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved as the MPS could not be operationalized.
achievement)
                A general framework regulation covering all necessary topics is developed and
Indicator 7 :
                adopted.
                                                                              Two out of four
                                                                              regulations were
                                                                              issued in 2011:
                                                                              Payments system
                                                                              regulation; and
Value
                                        Framework in                          AML/CFT
(quantitative   Does not exist
                                        place.                                regulation. The
or Qualitative)
                                                                              other two on
                                                                              Consumer
                                                                              Protection and
                                                                              Agent network have
                                                                              not been issued.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                12/31/2013                            03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Detailed implementing regulations are completed.
                                                                              Four regulations
Value
                                        Completed and in                      were drafted and
(quantitative   Do not exist.
                                        use.                                  two have been
or Qualitative)
                                                                              issued.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                12/31/2013                            03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Percentage of populated islands with a local agent with cash in/cash out facilities.
Value
(quantitative   0 percent.              100 percent.                          0 percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                12/31/2013                            03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved.
achievement)
                Number of customers who report that they often cannot deposit/withdraw the
Indicator 10 :
                amounts they need when they are at their local agent's store.
Value                                   Less than 100
(quantitative   0                       complaints per                        0
or Qualitative)                         month.
Date achieved     12/31/2007               12/31/2013                        03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    A promotion/public education campaign is designed and implemented.
Value
                                                                             Not completed and
(quantitative     Does not exist           Completed.
                                                                             not implemented.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007               12/31/2013                        03/20/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/25/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/22/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.30
  3     03/04/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.30
                              Moderately                Moderately
  4     06/30/2009                                                                        0.30
                            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  5     11/09/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.60
  6     03/08/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.60
  7     12/04/2010           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                4.51
  8     07/11/2011           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                5.83
  9     02/11/2012           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                6.39
 10     07/22/2012       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                6.39
                              Moderately                Moderately
 11     12/22/2012                                                                        7.60
                            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 12     04/08/2013          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      7.60
 13     11/01/2013          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      7.60


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of Closing Date to
 05/08/2012               S      MS           6.39
                                                     December 31, 2013.
                                                     Cancellation of an amount of
 12/23/2013               U      U            6.10   the Credit equal to US Dollars
                                                     1.50 million.
I. Disbursement Profile
1.    Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background:

1.1.1. The 2006 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) of Maldives identified the lack
of access to finance as the single largest impediment to private-sector development,
followed by cost of financing. This was different from the case of other South Asian
countries, where a lack of infrastructure is usually the main obstacle to development in
this sector. Access to finance poses challenges in the Maldives given the country’s
geographical dispersion over an area of 90,000 square kilometers, 99.5 percent of which
is water; 300,000 residents live on 198 scattered islands in 26 atolls, and 60 percent of the
inhabited islands have fewer than 1,000 residents. In this context, covering such a vast
territory with traditional branch networks of banks poses a particular challenge. Moreover,
only one domestic bank provided commercial banking services to the entire nation
through its 25 branches, eight mobile units, and 36 active ATMs, of which only 20 were
located outside the capital, Male. The branches of three South Asian state-owned
commercial banks as well as that of an international bank operated out of Male. As a
result, only 40 percent of Maldivians had a bank account, with most customers located in
Male (65 percent). At that time, government salaries and social transfers were all made in
cash, and the universal use of cash meant that citizens’ basic earnings were vulnerable to
loss, theft, and natural disasters such as the tsunami that struck Maldives in December
2004. Moreover, sending money from one island to another was expensive, time
consuming, and risky.

1.1.2. Project Background: The Mobile Phone Banking Project was designed primarily
to benefit the common people living and working in the atolls by sparing them the burden
of traveling great distances, facing security risks, and waiting in long queues at bank
branches to collect payments (salaries, pensions, social transfers or sales proceeds), pay
bills, or transfer payments to relatives, friends, or suppliers. Moreover, the project aimed
to: (i) reduce the number and amounts of cash transactions made by individuals,
businesses, and industries; (ii) enable banks to extend the outreach of their services,
provide more products, and reduce transactions costs; and (iii) reduce the cost to
government and to the banking system of printing, storing, and distributing cash.

1.1.3. To achieve these aims, the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) and the
World Bank ambitiously designed a totally unique, interoperable Mobile Payment
System (MPS) that connected all the banks and all the mobile network operators to the
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system, as well as to the retail small value
settlement system (through the Automated Clearing House – ACH). Further, the system
was to be managed by the banking regulator that would also have had to manage the
country-wide network of cash-in/cash-out agents. Given the numerous both bank and
non-bank institutions that would have to successfully interoperate, the huge differences in
their technology platforms, capacities, and knowledge capabilities, as well as in the
regulatory and legal sophistication of their respective owners, this project appears, with

                                             1
hindsight, to have been a very high risk pilot. Furthermore, to date, no country in the
world has implemented such a complex system.

1.1.4. A principal risk of successful implementation lay in the need for the diverse group
of participants to remain steadfast in their commitment to the project’s and the country’s
overall objectives and to carefully coordinate and cooperate under the leadership of the
Maldives Monetary Authority.

Rationale for World Bank assistance:

1.1.5. The government of Maldives requested that the World Bank design a project
extending financial services to all the people in Maldives in a cost-effective manner. The
idea was proposed by the government representatives who attended a regional
microfinance workshop sponsored by the World Bank in December 2005, in which they
were exposed for the first time to mobile banking systems in use in other parts of the
world. The government’s request was first taken up by CGAP, which in 2006 began to
work with the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) to develop a concept and proposal
that formed the basis for the project. Moreover, CGAP came forward to design the
project using the experience and expertise of its technology team, which had carried out
considerable work on branchless banking and mobile phone banking. As a result, in 2006,
CGAP and MMA developed a vision document and project framework entitled
“Developing a National Banking and Payment System with Mobile Phones.” That
document provided a basis for the design and development of this project.1

1.1.6. Since the request was in line with the 2007 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which highlighted the importance of improving access to finance as part of an effort to
enhance private-sector development, this project was considered appropriate for
International Development Association (IDA) funding. It was furthermore seen to
contribute to the goals described under CAS pillar 1 on economic governance and
investment, specifically with respect to creating an environment conducive for growth,
generating employment, enhancing trade, supporting businesses, and building
competitive industries.

1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

1.2.1. The objective of the project was to significantly increase the use of banking
system transactions for effecting or receiving payments for labor, goods, and services
nationwide through the implementation of a national, interoperable payment system that



1
  “Developing a National Banking and Payment System with Mobile Phones – Vision Document and
Project Framework,” CGAP and MMA, Maldives, December 2006. Authored by Gautam Ivatury (CGAP
technology specialist), Bill Donges (Payment Systems and Banking Technology- CGAP consultant), Peter
Goldfinch (Mobile Phone Payment Systems - CGAP consultant), Keith Smith (Banking and Payment
Systems Regulations - CGAP consultant), and Jenny Hoffman (Mobile Phone Banking - CGAP
consultant). Ibraheem Naeem (MMA) made important contributions.

                                                  2
facilitates access to financial services and allows users access to their bank account using
any mobile phone operator and receiving cash (cashing out) through any banking agent.

Key Indicators

1.2.2. The key indicators were:
     A large proportion of the adult population will have a phone account (>75 percent
       of adults will have a phone account by the end of the project period).
     A large proportion of the adult population will have a regular bank account that
       can be accessed from their mobile phone account (>70 percent of adults will have
       a regular bank account by the end of the project period).
     A large share of salary and supply chain payments will be effected electronically,
       directly into customers’ bank accounts, which in turn can be accessed through
       mobile phone accounts.
     The amount of cash in circulation (M1) will decline as more transactions are
       made electronically (the amount of cash in circulation will begin to decline in the
       second year after the MPS becomes fully functional).
     An appropriate legal and regulatory system will be in place for mobile phone
       transactions (a general framework regulation covering all necessary topics will be
       in place by the time transactions in the system begin).
     Everyone with a phone account will be able to deposit and withdraw reasonable
       amounts of cash from their accounts anywhere in the country.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

1.3.1. The Project Development Objective was not revised.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1. The group that was intended to benefit the most from this project was the general
population living and working in the atolls. The population’s remoteness from formal
bank retail outlets (branches or ATMs) forced people to carry, hold, and exchange
significant amounts of cash. They needed to travel large distances and subsequently
withstand long queues at bank branches to collect payments (including salaries and
proceeds of fish stock sales), pay bills, or transfer payments to relatives, friends, or
suppliers. Beyond the transportation costs and the time involved, there were safety and
security concerns. This situation also reduced financial savings, as people were more
likely to bring their entire value of wages earned home and carry larger precautionary
cash balances with them. As such, the main expected benefit of the project was that
universal access to financial services would be provided. This would reduce the
vulnerability of people living on remote islands, especially women in fragile
environments with limited access to financial services.

1.4.2. A second group that was expected to benefit from the project were businesses and
industries—especially the main industries of tourism and fishing on which the economy

                                             3
depends—through a reduction in the costs and risks of the prevailing cash-based system.
Moreover, financial institutions (particularly banks), were projected to be in a position to
extend the outreach of their services to remote islands in every atoll, provide more
products, and reduce transaction costs for the ultimate benefit of their clients.

1.4.3. Finally, the government and the banking system were expected to benefit from a
reduction in the costs of printing, storing, and distributing cash.

1.5    Original Components (as approved)
The project had two main components:

1.5.1. Component 1 – Create, establish, and operationalize the Maldives
Interoperable Payments System (MIPS): (US$6.00 million). The payment system is a
single-currency system operating in Maldivian Rufiyaas (Rf) that will be capable of
interoperating with all local mobile network operators and integrating all the banks. The
system will offer a set of mobile telephone-based accounts that include: (i) mobile
payment accounts; (ii) mobile agent accounts; (ii) mobile card accounts; (iii) mobile
loyalty; (iv) mobile airtime reseller accounts; and (iv) a customized account type, for
introduction of new banking/payment products in the future.

1.5.2. The payment system would enable subscribers to transfer funds to and from bank
accounts held in any bank both to and from the telephone-based accounts. The telephone
accounts were to be accessible from the handset. New customers would be able to enroll
through the mobile handset and withdrawal and deposit functions would be performed by
a network of agents. The project aimed at having at least one agent in each of the 200
inhabited islands, 89 resorts, 30 to 40 industrial/agricultural islands, and in Male. Each
agent would have a direct contractual relationship with the bank for which he/she
performed cash functions. For the purpose of supporting the “Know Your Customer”
qualification, the system would be integrated with the National Registration System for
validation of subscriber identity during the enrolment process.

1.5.3. The main elements of the MIPS would be the Mobile Payment System (MPS), an
RTGS system, an image-enabled ACH system, and an Electronic Funds Transfer
(EFT)/Point of Sale (POS) /Automated Teller Machine (ATM) front-end processing
system. These elements would be integrated into one single system backed up by a
disaster recovery system. This technical solution was intended to provide the simplest
possible interface to the banks’ existing core banking systems.

1.5.4. Component 2 – Building an enabling environment and the capacity to
support successful mobile phone banking systems – (US$1.00 million) Capacity must
be built in several areas to ensure that the system would be properly regulated, work for
clients, and be well managed. It would be necessary to develop and implement
regulations to cover all aspects of the system, as well as build the capacity of regulators
to supervise it. To help ensure that people and businesses understood the benefits of the
system and adopted and trusted it, a promotion/public education campaign would be
conducted. Finally, a mobile phone banking unit would be established under the MMA

                                             4
that would have the capability to implement and manage MIPS. This unit would be
established keeping in mind the longer-term objective of transitioning into a competent,
viable MIPS Business Unit after transaction volumes reached a reasonable level.

1.6     Revised Components

1.6.1. The components were not revised.

1.7     Other significant changes

1.7.1. The project was restructured twice during the implementation period:
    (i)   Extension of Closing Date: The project was restructured on May 8, 2012, to
          extend the closing date from June 30, 2012, to December 31, 2013, to
          overcome implementation delays due to political turmoil in the country over
          the previous few years. The extension was proposed to allow the completion
          of critical components of the MPS and of the ACH. However, the
          implementation of both the MPS and the Direct Debit part of the ACH remain
          incomplete as of March 31, 2014.
    (ii)  Partial Cancellation of Proceeds: The second restructuring letter was sent to
          the government on December 23, 2013, to cancel US$1.5 million in un-
          utilized funds. The project, therefore, closed after disbursing SDR 3.92
          million out of SDR 4.90 million (80 percent.)

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, whether risks and their
mitigations were identified, and the adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

2.1.1. Quality at Entry: The Minutes of the Quality at Entry Review (QER) indicate
that two principal issues were addressed with the project team. First, the peer reviewers
and management wanted to be convinced that there is buy in not only from the Maldives
Monetary Authority (MMA) but also from other stakeholders including the Ministry of
Finance. In addition, some of the participants reiterated that the private sector and the
other stakeholders need to be involved in the process from the inception. Second, the
project team was requested to update the RIW and also to identify indicators which can
be properly measured. In addition, the team was requested to have baseline data at least
before going to Board. Risks in the regulatory framework as well as sustainability beyond
the project period were highlighted as high risk. The team was requested not to have a
new component for monitoring and evaluation (M & E) but to ensure that data is
adequately collected to measure outputs and outcomes.

2.1.2. The ICR team’s judgment on quality at entry is based on the advice provided by
the QER, on a full review of project preparation and appraisal documents that provided
the analytical basis for the project design, as well as on the findings from a field visit and
interviews and discussions with all project stakeholders.


                                                5
2.1.3. Responding to the PDO to increase banking system transactions through mobile
phones, the design of the project focused on developing and implementing a single
interoperable payment system, ensuring the participation of banks and mobile network
operators, establishing agent networks, and putting in place an appropriate legal and
regulatory framework. The single interoperable payment system consisted of: (i) an
RTGS system; (ii) an image-enabled ACH system; (iii) an EFT/POS/ATM front-end
processing system; and (iv) a MPS. The broader scope of the project components - that
included establishment of a single interoperable system consisting of the RTGS, ACH,
EFT/POS - does not seem to be linked to the PDO nor to the performance indicators
provided in the Results Framework. Further, the ICR review does not find in the
preparation and appraisal documents, adequate explanations to assess the role that the
RTGS/ACH components play in fulfilling the stated PDO. In addition, there are no
indicators to measure any of these components, except the MIPS component. As a result,
even though the RTGS and parts of the ACH were successfully implemented, it was
difficult for the ICR team to accurately assess these components’ contribution to
achievement of the PDO.

2.1.4. Further, it is not clear why such a complex system integrating the settlement of
gross and retail value payments with an MPS was necessary to achieve the PDO. While
acknowledging that, if successfully achieved, the project would have represented the first
time a country managed to create a single, national interoperable payment and banking
system in which mobile phones and local banking agents were the main payment
instruments and devices, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) justified this choice on
the grounds that such an approach was “the best and most cost-effective way for financial
services to reach all the people in Maldives, given the country’s challenging geography,
thin financial sector, and relatively high mobile telephone penetration.”


2.1.5. Despite the assertion that the project design was the “best and most cost-
effective”, absent from the project preparation and appraisal documents was the type of
economic and financial analysis to justify the heavy investment in the RTGS to fulfill the
more limited project objective to expand financial inclusion through the use of mobile
phones. Also not found was an analysis of the costs and benefits to the commercial banks
to upgrade their core banking systems to be able to interoperate with the Interoperable
Payment System platform being developed under the project. Further, fee structures to
justify the Bank of the Maldives Ltd (the largest participating bank) sharing its ATM and
branching infrastructure and card acceptance business -- if analyzed, negotiated, and
agreed at an early stage -- might have provided the framework for an arrangement that
ensured all parties’ full participation in the project.

2.1.6. Because a simple mobile phone banking platform was all that was needed to reach
population groups in the outer atolls, a more modest Mobile Network Operator (MNO)-
led Mobile Financial System (MFS) model,2 or even a commercial bank-led MFS model3


2
  In a Telecom-led MFS model, the telecom company is the issuer of the product and handles all activities,
including responsibility for customer funds.

                                                    6
similar to those operating successfully in many other countries, would have been a more
appropriate design for achieving the project objectives. The Bank project team provided
assurances that they followed a consultative process and “conducted lengthy sessions
during missions where various options; Bank-led model, MNO led model, MMA led
model etc. were discussed”. The Bank project team, nevertheless acknowledges that these
discussions are not recorded in detail in any of the Aide Memoires. Hence the project
team asserts that the design was agreed upon in a democratic manner and was not a top
down approach. However, because the project did not succeed, banking and payment
services are still not available—especially to people in the atolls—even after 80 percent
of the project funds were utilized.


2.1.7. Soundness of background analysis:             A Vision Document and Project
Framework for “Developing a National Banking and Payment System with Mobile
Phones” developed jointly by CGAP and MMA in December 2006, found that a retail
payment system that relies primarily on mobile phones is feasible in Maldives, given
sufficient commitment by the government, banks, and mobile operators. However,
neither this study nor any other study conducted a cost-benefit analysis for the
participants. In fact, both the Bank of Maldives (BML) and Dhiraagu (the largest mobile
network operator) informed the ICR mission team that they had repeatedly requested
such an analysis over the implementation period, but none was supplied. If such a study
were carried out, the concerns of BML (such as cost and revenue-sharing arrangements)
may have been addressed upfront, thereby ensuring their participation when the MPS was
ready to be launched. This study also noted that “a Large Value Funds Transfer (LVFT)
system” or “an appropriately scaled Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system” was
“somewhat outside the scope of this project,” although it could be implemented by MMA
to facilitate business-to-business, government-to-government, and bank-to-bank payment.
This advice was not taken into account during the project’s design phase, thereby
resulting in a highly complex undertaking. Furthermore, no analysis was done to justify
the need to implement an RTGS system as an essential part of this project in achieving
the PDO. Even the outcome indicators do not reflect statistics on large-value transactions
or impact.

2.1.8. Lessons learned from previous World Bank Group-assisted projects: During
the preparation of this project, the World Bank admitted that it had not funded a
branchless banking project of any kind. The World Bank also admitted that no country
has yet developed a retail payment system that relies primarily on mobile phones, that is
open to all mobile phone operators and financial institutions, and that delivers basic
banking services to all citizens. However, the World Bank has considerable experience in
implementing payments system projects, including installation of ACH and RTGS
systems in many countries, which is perhaps one reason why those systems were added to

3
  In a Commercial Bank-led MFS model, the bank is the primary driver of the product or service, typically
taking the lead in marketing, branding, and managing the customer relationship. The customer has a
contractual relationship with the bank, which often outsources certain activities to one or more service
providers (such as a Mobile Network Operator – MNO) for the transmission of transaction details and
sometimes even the maintenance of clients’ sub-accounts.

                                                    7
the MPS in this case, albeit without a justification as to why RTGS was needed to
achieve the PDO under this project. The preparation team drew more on CGAP’s
experience. The work CGAP’s technology team had carried out on branchless banking
and on mobile phone banking in particular underscored the following key success factors:
(i) ease of use of the user interface; (ii) communicating clear benefits from the service to
potential users, especially as regards savings products (where take-up generally has
lagged behind bill payment and remittance services); (iii) ensuring security of
communications and transactions, and allaying public concerns in this regard; (iv)
providing clarity to agents on the economics of agent service provision and ensuring
adequate returns for them, to avoid undue turnover of agents; and (v) making account
opening requirements work for the poor.

2.1.9. While the preparation team carefully considered these aspects through the design
stage of this project, it could have done more to communicate with the main
participants—the banks and the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs)—about the costs and
benefits of participation so that BML could not withdraw on the reason that it never
received a concrete analysis of the benefits that would accrue to BML by participating.
The implementation reports for the project indicate that the lion’s share of blame falls on
BMLs shoulders for putting its commercial self-interest and its dominant market position
ahead of the legitimate objectives of the country to enhance financial inclusion in the
atolls. While this may be true, it can also be said - as a lesson learned with hindsight -
that the importance of BML’s participation and the potential of these constraining issues
could have been anticipated at an earlier stage and mitigation measures implemented to
address those risks.

2.1.10. In response to the second lesson, which clearly pointed to the lack of required
expertise to implement projects in Maldives, the proposal included a provision for
technical assistance, assigning competent international experts to MMA. However, in
spite of repeated requests by participating banks and MNOs, these experts failed to
provide them with a cost-benefit analysis. In addition, the need to include RTGS (or the
role it plays) in the planned mobile retail payment system was similarly neither justified
nor explained in an appropriate manner.

2.1.11. Risk Assessment: The overall risk of the project was rated as Moderate in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team
does not agree with this rating. Lack of Government of Maldives (GOM)/MMA
ownership was rated low and lack of ownership by key stakeholders was rated Moderate.
Clearly, both should have been rated high so that appropriate mitigation measures could
have been anticipated and applied from the very beginning, even before BML refused to
participate in the project, given that BML’s participation was critical to operationalizing
the project as it has been designed. Even at the QER, the peer reviewers and management
“wanted to be convinced that there is buy-in not only from the Maldives Monetary
Authority (MMA) but also from other stakeholders including the Ministry of Finance and
the private sector”.




                                             8
2.1.12. The project envisioned a single interoperable payment system that would have
combined the services of all the banks and mobile network operators operating in the
country. Such a total interoperable system, if fully implemented, would indeed have been
“an exemplar for other South Asian and Sub-Saharan African countries with some of the
same characteristics” as recorded in the PAD. However, what was overlooked was the
unusual situation proper to the financial sector of Maldives, with its unique geographical
dispersion of 300,000 people across 200 scattered islands in 26 atolls. Here, one locally
owned commercial bank—with more than 62 percent of the market share and the only
network of branches among the atolls—remains unwilling to share its core banking
system and card platform with the other banks and cellular companies operating in the
country. This apparent critical risk was not properly recognized at the outset, and no
mitigating action was planned or taken during the entire implementation period.

2.1.13. While mobile phone banking in general is not considered high risk, the project as
designed – with high levels of interdependency and interoperability between different
bank and telco business interests – represented a high aspiration. Interoperability is still a
subject of contentious debate today. Thus the design made the project higher risk than
would normally be expected of a simple mobile banking solution. More important,
because the project aimed to develop a solution that had not been possible anywhere else
in the world, it was explicitly described as a pilot. In the case of pilot projects, it would
have been prudent for the project team to consider putting in place, even at the design
stage a Plan B – i.e. alternative plans in case critical risks triggered remedial actions.
However, no Plan B was ever developed for this project.

2.1.14. Adequacy of participatory processes: Although the World Bank and MMA
teams held several discussions with the banks, MNOs, and other stakeholders, these
discussions did not succeed in building the necessary ownership and interest within the
largest domestic bank and MNO. Without a clear participation signal from BML, the
other banks had no incentive to participate in the project, as BML’s branch network is
critical for liquidity management purposes. Nor is it clear that BML’s expressed concerns
with respect to recovering its investment in its ATM network and ensuring a protection
period for its profitable card acceptance business were addressed in the design of fee
structures, revenue sharing, or in the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU). Perhaps greater background work on various issues—including a
schedule of charges by which participants must abide and cost implications for customers,
banks, and MNOs of the entire operation—could have led to more fruitful discussions
and elicited greater enthusiasm among the critically important participants. Again as
noted, the issue of adequate participatory processes was raised at the QER.

2.1.15. Adequacy of government commitment: Although the government initially
showed keen interest in the project, the level of interest appeared to wane after changes in
country leadership occurred during the presidential and parliamentary elections of 2009
which changed the leaders who had been the initial champions of the project and its
objectives. Thus, when the issue of non-participation by the government-owned bank
(BML) surfaced later on, it appears that the government was no longer keen to resolve
matters by perhaps enforcing BML’s participation for the sake of the country, and

                                              9
thereby bringing the project to operation. The project documents also show that the award
of the contract was delayed substantially after the change of the government and until the
Bank received written confirmation of the borrowers’ commitment to the project.
Accordingly, on July 6, 2009 the Deputy Governor of MMA informed the World Bank
that they had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with BML on July 2, 2009 and
MMA’s commitment to the project was reconfirmed. On the same day, the Minister of
Finance and Treasury (MOFT) also confirmed to the World Bank in writing that they
consider the project to be a top priority.


2.2.   Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project-at-Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

2.2.1. The implementation of the project has not been easy, not least because the
implementing agency—the MMA—had no prior knowledge, preparatory study exposure
to, nor experience in implementing such a novel and complex project. The project itself
was pioneering in the field of mobile financial services, with no instance at that time of
any other country having designed or implemented such a “Regulator-led model” of
mobile phone banking or mobile financial services in which all banks, as well as MNOs,
would interoperate, and whose system would additionally be linked to the RTGS and the
ACH. The then Governor, along with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT),
strongly supported this initiative and the leadership of implementation was given to a
Policy Steering Committee (PSC) and a Project Advisory Committee (PAC), both headed
by the Governor. The PAC consisted of representatives from the MMA, banks, MNOs,
and a representative from the Department of National Registration. Actual
implementation was carried out by a newly established Mobile Phone Banking Unit
(MPBU) at MMA, headed by a Senior Executive Director and supported by a Technical
Advisor recruited under the project. Although implementation could not be completed
according to the original schedule, due to various delays, most of the hardware and
software was ultimately procured and installed by the extended project closing date. As a
result, two of the subcomponents went live and are functioning successfully. The RTGS
went live in 2011, and one part of the ACH—i.e., Direct Credit payments—went live in
2012, after adequate user testing and training. However, the other two sub-systems of
ACH—the Direct Debit system and the electronic presentment of checks (check imaging
and truncation system)—are yet to be implemented. The Direct Debit system was delayed
due to the holdup in finalizing the Operational Guidelines, while the general setbacks in
operationalizing the project have meanwhile rendered obsolete the original scanners for
the check imaging system that were to be procured. Moreover, the two main
subcomponents, which are the MPS and the Interoperable EFT Switch, could not be
operationalized when the largest bank in Maldives (BML) refused to join the
interoperable system on the pretext that the system would erode its market share, allow
other banks to compete for its credit and debit card acceptance business, and access its
ATM and branch networks without a fee structure that it considered adequate to
compensate for its significant investment. Therefore, although BML had endorsed the
project concept at the consultations held in December 2007, and had further expressed its
willingness to support the project by signing, with the approval of its Board, the MOU
                                           10
with the MMA in November 2009 securing its participation in the interoperable system, it
nevertheless reneged on the MOU when the system was on the verge of being
operationalized.

2.2.2. As a result, the MPS could not be launched, and the expected outcomes of the
project could not be achieved. The project rating was downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory in June 2009, for a brief period of five months, and then upgraded to
Satisfactory again in November 2009 after BML signed the MOU. Subsequently, the
project was again downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory in December 2010, and
eventually further downgraded to Unsatisfactory in April 2013. This rating held until the
closing date.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

2.3.1. The design of the project included a transaction reporting capability, so that the
nature, volume, and purpose of electronic m-banking transactions could be recorded
automatically and reported regularly. This system would produce most of the required
monitoring data. However, the system could not be put to use, as there have been no
electronic m-banking transactions to date in the absence of an operational MPS. Although
MMA planned to collect information from banks on savings and credit balances by atoll
and by island size, as well as by type of account holder and by sector of economic
activity, the data collection process appears to be at a standstill, which has made it
difficult to ascertain the validity of such data produced by BML.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1. No social safeguard policies were triggered by the project. However, the project
did consider the need to ensure customer protection through a proper legal and regulatory
framework. Awareness campaigns to help users understand and value the proposed
system were planned and executed during the implementation period. The Safeguard
Compliance is rated as Satisfactory.

2.4.2. The project complied with most of the fiduciary covenants during implementation.
The MPBU maintained adequate records and accounts and furnished the interim
unaudited financial reports for the project within 45 days of each quarter and the audited
accounts within six months of the end of each year. However, the government failed to
call regular meetings of the PSC and the PAC, especially towards the end of the project.
Fiduciary Compliance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


2.5.   Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance (O&M) arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

2.5.1. An MPBU was set up in MMA in January 2008 to implement the project. This
unit was set up as a separate cost center to ensure that it functioned independently of the

                                             11
mainstream MMA. It was assumed that, as transaction volumes began to increase, this
unit would have generated more than enough revenues to meet its operating costs, thus
making it a sustainable business unit. At that time, a transition was planned from the
MPBU structure to a MIPS Business Unit structure. However, since the MIPS—
including the MPS and the EFT Switch—could not be operationalized due to the non-
participation by the largest bank in Maldives, the planned transition became redundant.

2.5.2. However, when the MPS could not be operationalized due to non-participation of
BML, MMA obtained its Board’s approval to sell the tested and ready MPS, called Keesa,
to an interested eligible party through a public bidding process. Although the largest
MNO, called Dhiraagu, initially showed interest in buying the MPS, the company later
informed MMA that it would not bid on the system, as it did not see a viable business
case for the MPS. As such, when bidding was opened, not a single bid was received. One
reason for this lack of interest is the absence of a regulatory framework within which an
MNO could operate the system as a non-bank institution.

2.5.3. The MPS platform called Keesa is technologically outdated4 and obsolete. Given
the major market innovations over the past seven years, there are low-cost, nearly
standardized, off-the-shelf platforms that are now available. The vendor’s opinion is that
the country should choose a less costly and more sophisticated, user-friendly, newer
solution rather than try to upgrade the older software.

2.5.4. MMA can consider opting for an MNO-led model and, specifically, an “MNO-led
custodial bank-based model,” as successfully launched in some countries provided that:
     Interoperability with banks is not made a precondition;
     The MNO platform is not linked to MMA’s RTGS or ACH switches in real time;
     A Tier-II banking license for either the MNO or for its agents is not made
       mandatory and MMA enables an MNO to operate the MFS system as a non-bank
       model; and
     A custodial bank arrangement is put in place to provide for the necessary
       supervisory, risk management, and consumer protections.

2.5.5. The MNO would have various options with respect to the technology platform.
    (i)   One option would be to use Keesa, invest in the necessary upgrades, and
          transform the codes to operate it as an MNO-led model. As described earlier,
          this option raises issues of cost and technological efficiency. Since the
          operating license would need to be transferred from MMA to an MNO, the
          pricing of the transfer would have to be negotiated, taking into account that
          the platform is now obsolete. Moreover, in order to operate this model, the
          MNO will have to obtain a banking license, a prospect that is not attractive to
          an MNO.
    (ii)  Another possible avenue would be to allow the MNO to develop its own
          platform.

4
 Keesa runs on the Enterprise Application platform version 5.6 and needs to be upgraded to at least the
5.12 version, with each version requiring over 30 patches for the upgrade.

                                                    12
     (iii)   Finally, a third option would be to obtain a multi-operator platform from a
             tried and tested solution provider.

2.5.6. In order to enable an MNO-led MFS model, MMA would need to create an
appropriate enabling regulatory environment, including the immediate enactment of the
Payment Systems Law. If an MNO-led MFS model is to be examined as a viable option,
MMA will have to issue regulations enabling non-bank providers to own and operate
MFS. The prudential regulations to govern non-bank mobile money providers would give
MMA the authority to issue guidelines and to effectively mitigate the risk of mobile
money customers losing the money they have stored in the system.

2.5.7. With regard to ACH operations, it is prudent to issue the finalized regulations and
start Direct Debit operations. With regard to check imaging, MMA should go ahead with
procuring new scanners, as planned.

2.5.8. With regard to the EFT Switch, MMA has not incurred any additional expenses
for the national switch. It may be prudent at this stage to evaluate this separately as a
longer-term payment reform option.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.     Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

3.1.1. The project’s objective clearly remains highly relevant to the development of the
Maldivian economy. It also remains relevant to the World Bank’s sector assistance
strategy of improving access to finance as part of an effort to enhance private-sector
development. Therefore, both Bank Management and MMA/MOFT are eager to find a
way to achieve the goal of reaching the unbanked by using mobile phones to carry out
banking and other financial transactions. It is, therefore, critical to find a way out of this
stalemate. The ICR team had provided some options for MMA and MOFT to consider in
this respect, along the lines suggested in the Next Phase section presented above (Section
2.5).

3.1.2. Design and Scope: Both the design and scope of this project may no longer be
relevant and must be changed along the lines discussed in the Next Phase section
presented above.

3.1.3. Implementation: The PDO and contribution to the CAS clearly focused on the
goal of reaching the unbanked and improving access to finance using mobile phone
banking as a retail payment platform and a lower-cost access channel to outlying atolls
than is normally provided by traditional banks. However, the rationale is not clearly
articulated in the PAD for complicating the project design to include implementation of
an RTGS and an ACH—major technical and implementation challenges by themselves—
that might have justified a free-standing technical assistance grant. An added layer of
complexity was inherent in the design requirement that the MIPS be managed by MMA
to interoperate with all banks and all MNOs, with their respective agents, as well as with
                                                13
the gross settlement and ACH systems. The two diagrams below display the complex
management process that MMA faced, having no precedent in the world from which to
borrow, replicate, or even mimic.




         MIP S - The Maldives Inter-operable P ayment S ys tem
                                                                                               MIPS
                                                                         Multilateral
                   Paying Bank                                              NSI
                  Collecting Bank
                       Value        High Value
                                                    RTGS     Reserves/
                    Customer        Payments
                         •Paying                              pledges
                       •Receiving
                                                                                        High Value
                                                                                        Payments
                                                            Settlement
                                    High Value               Accounts
                   Bank A           Payments                                                 Bank B
                                                                                 Intra and
                                                          Net                   Inter Bank
                                                                                Payments
                                                      Settlement
                                                      Instruction
                                                                                              Low Value
                                                          and
                                                                                               Payment
                                       Low Value       response
                                                                                                Files
                                        Payment
                                         Files      ACH
                                                                                         Refusals
                                                                                        for debits
                                        Refusals
                                       for debits
                                                     A B C D E F


        Page 10




3.1.4. Indeed, at the time of appraisal through the first stages of project implementation,
detailed operating guidelines and procedures for MIPS, associated staff training plans,
and an assessment of staff capacity within MMA to manage and operate such a

                                                     14
complicated back office were not provided to guide implementation of the centrally
important project element, without which the PDO could not be achieved.

3.1.5. In effect, MMA lacked the skills and expertise to implement a complex payment
system, which was further exacerbated by the changes in the leadership of MMA during
the implementation period. Although this risk was recognized in the Critical Risks
section, it was nonetheless rated as Moderate and mitigation measures consisted of
recruiting experienced consultants, building the cadre of staff for the MIPS, insisting on
close supervision by a technical working group, and training by international experts of
local staff in MMA. However, not even a study tour was planned to expose the
inexperienced MMA management and staff to a country that was successfully managing
non-interoperable systems at that time, such as Kenya and the Philippines.

3.1.6. If a future opportunity arises to support implementation of an MNO-led model,
MMA’s involvement as the regulator would be necessary with the authorities to issue e-
Money and mobile money regulatory guidelines under a Payment Systems Law. Hence,
capacity building within MMA would continue to be a crucial element for successful
implementation.

3.1.7. As the country’s monetary authority, MMA is de facto responsible for anything
having to do with the payment system, whether it be retail or large value, as it has a direct
impact on the money supply and monetary policy.


3.2.    Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDOs)
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

3.2.1. Unsatisfactory. The project was unsuccessful in achieving the PDOs. Almost
none of the Outcome and Output Indicators could be achieved as the MPS could not be
operationalized, even after the planned hardware and software systems were procured and
installed.5 Thus, 80 percent of the project funds amounting to US$6 million were utilized
to install and commission the three systems: the RTGS, the ACH, and the MIPS.
However, only the RTGS and the Direct Credit function of the ACH are in operation now.
Although these two systems are generating some benefits, they are unable to contribute to
increasing the use of banking system transactions via any mobile phone operator and
cashing out through any banking agent. Therefore, the population residing in remote
atolls is still forced to carry, hold, and exchange significant amounts of cash and have to
travel to Male to withdraw cash, collect payments, pay bills, or transfer payments. The
goal of expanding access to financial services through mobile telephones remains
unfulfilled as the MPS could not be operationalized.


5
 Already noted is the fact that output and outcome indicators relating directly to the RTGS and ACH were
never developed for the project. Given that expenditures on these two major software and hardware
systems represented the major portion of actual project expenditure, this can be considered a flaw in the
project results monitoring framework.

                                                   15
3.3.    Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

3.3.1. Since the main subcomponent, the MIPS, could not be operationalized, the
principal benefits envisaged during project design, and planned to be assessed through
the listed project outcome and output indicators, have not been achieved. Although most
of the systems were procured and installed and 80 percent of the funds (US$6 million)
were utilized for this purpose, the project has yet to achieve any of the benefits that could
be measured through the listed indicators. However, the fact that the benefits listed under
the indicators have not been achieved should not be construed to mean that no benefits
have accrued under the project. The benefits that have accrued so far include: (i) a fully
functioning RTGS system that is processing 100 transactions on an average per business
day. In 2013, a total of 22,059 transactions in Rf and 13,118 transactions in U.S. dollars
have been processed. The value of transactions processed are Rf 351.43 billion and
US$2.18 billion, respectively.

3.3.2. While it is tempting to calculate the per transaction or per unit of currency value
to determine the efficiency of the system, the current basis for determining the viability
of RTGS has shifted from such estimates to assessing the benefits of mitigating
settlement and systemic risk of interbank settlement process, and thereby avoiding
stresses to the system arising from a default of a large-value payment. Since such a
default could potentially trigger a financial crisis affecting the growth of the economy,
RTGS plays a major role in preventing such defaults, with substantial benefits; (ii) a fully
functioning Direct Credit service under the ACH that is processing 225 transactions on an
average business day. A total of 75,533 Maldivian rufiyaa transactions and 34,974 U.S.
dollar transactions have been processed since the system went “live” on February 2, 2012.
Moreover, the Cheque Truncation and Imaging system is expected to go “live” by June
30, 2014 and the Direct Debit service under the ACH is also expected to go “live” by
December 31, 2014, thereby adding further to the existing benefits. An additional benefit
is accruing by way of electronic transfer of pension payments of all retired government
officials directly to their bank accounts. These pensioners appreciate this benefit, which
spares them the trouble of traveling to Male from their resident islands to collect their
pensions.

3.4.    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.4.1. Relevance: As explained above, while the project objectives remain highly
relevant to Maldives, the design, scope, and implementation framework would need to be
changed going forward. Therefore, this is rated as Low.

3.4.2. Achievement of PDOs: As explained above, the PDOs were not achieved, as the
MIPS—including the MPS—could not be operationalized. The achievement of PDOs is
rated as Unsatisfactory.

                                               16
3.4.3. Efficiency: While some benefits have accrued from the project so far, the main
goal of expanding access to financial services through mobile phones has not been
achieved. Efficiency is rated as Minimal.

3.4.4. Based on the above factors and the discussion in Section 3 above, the overall
outcome is rated Unsatisfactory.


3.5.    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1. Poverty Impact: The project’s aim was to improve efficiency in the banking and
payment system and to make the financial services more cost-effective, thereby
increasing access to financial services by the unbanked and the poor. Therefore, the
project was intended to contribute to poverty reduction through: reduction in the cost of
banking transactions, especially for the poor and unbanked; reduction in the need to hold
cash, thereby increasing investable funds for industries as well as individuals; reduction
in cost and travel time to access banking services; and reduction in regional disparities
that affect the poor adversely. None of these benefits could be achieved, as the MPS
could not be operationalized. Nonetheless, the project has had some positive impact on
poverty reduction by operationalizing the payment of pensions and social transfers
electronically. Pensioners now have more time to engage in other productive pursuits,
rather than spending time pursuing and collecting pension payments. In addition, the
RTGS ensures real-time, large-value transfers that improve liquidity management for
businesses and industries. In addition, the RTGS system offers a powerful mechanism for
limiting settlement and systemic risks in the interbank settlement process.

3.5.2. Gender Aspects: While the project did not have a specific focus on gender, the
benefits accruing under the project would have been proportionately higher for women
than men, simply because it would have brought greater convenience to them. It is,
therefore, still very important to strive to achieve this project’s development objectives.

3.5.3. Social Development: The project did not have any social development objectives.
However, it could be surmised that increased financial access would have a development
impact, especially for the poor.




                                               17
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

3.5.4. The project resulted in substantial development and strengthening of MMA’s
capacity and skills through technological process-related interventions. By implementing
the RTGS, MMA has been able to limit settlement and systemic risk in the interbank
settlement process. It has also enhanced efficiency of the settlement process through the
installation of the ACH. MMA is planning to install the EFT Switch, which will increase
the efficiency of card payments in Maldives. Moreover, the project implementation
experience has been a huge learning-by-doing for MMA staff. They are now
concentrating on further increasing the availability and efficiency of banking transactions
in Maldives and focusing on expanding access to the poor and unbanked.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4.   Assessment of Risk-to-Development Outcome
Rating: High

4.1.   The ICR team considers that the risk-to-development outcome is high, as long as
the design, scope, and implementation arrangements are not changed to suit the current
circumstances.

5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1.1. The World Bank’s performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of
the project was Unsatisfactory. The World Bank responded to a request by the
MMA/government after they were encouraged to try mobile phone banking, having heard
about it at the regional microfinance workshop in December 2005. With no knowledge of
or experience in mobile phone banking, the government relied completely on the World
Bank Group to provide the best advice to successfully design and implement such system.
MMA invited CGAP to explore the viability of the project, undertake a situational
analysis, and compile a plan to drive the project forward to completion. CGAP responded




                                            18
enthusiastically and completed the study in December 2006 6 in conjunction with the
MMA, which found that a retail payment system that relies primarily on mobile phones is
feasible in Maldives, given sufficient commitment by the government, banks, and mobile
operators. During preparation and appraisal, the World Bank along with CGAP appeared
to be more focused on designing a project that would be the first of its kind in the world,
and hence an “exemplar for other South Asian countries with some of the same
characteristics, as well as countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the world,”
rather than assessing the applicability and acceptance of such a project in Maldives,
which is characterized by a single domestic bank that controls more than 62 percent of
the market share. A deeper discussion with BML management and customers would have
revealed that this bank had its own grand designs and targets that did not align with the
interoperable MPS offered under the project. For example, while the project was being
implemented, BML was, in parallel, investing heavily in its own brand of credit and debit
card systems and in the 26 ATMs outside Male, in addition to the 21 ATMs in Male itself,
which they did not plan to share with any of the competing banks operating in Maldives.
BML’s commitment to participating in an interoperable payment system was clearly
lukewarm from the very beginning. Moreover, a review of the MMA Act and the
Banking Act would have indicated that the MMA did not have the legal jurisdiction to
mandate that BMA join the interoperable system for the overall growth and development
of the country.7 Moreover, MMA did not have a Payments Systems law that would have
given them explicit and enhanced legal and regulatory powers to effect such action.

5.1.2. The two alternatives that were considered were both narrowly focused on other
sources of funds, such as trust funds, institutional development funds, a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL), or an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Alternative designs—such
as a simple MNO-led MFS model or a commercial bank-led MFS model that would have
been more suitable for a small economy such as that of Maldives and which were gaining
popularity in Kenya and the Philippines—were not considered, and no reasons were
offered for this oversight.

5.1.3. In addition, the broader scope of the project’s components—to establish a single
interoperable system consisting of RTGS, ACH, EFT/POS was not adequately linked to
the PDO or the performance indicators. The rationale for including an RTGS system and
interlinking it to such a highly complex, ambitious, and interoperable MPS is similarly
not discussed; and none of the project outcome and output indicators even reflect the
contributions of the large-value payment system or the ACH components. As a result, it
was difficult to accurately assess project achievements and ratings (even though the
RTGS and parts of the ACH were successfully implemented).


6
  “Developing a National Banking and Payment System with Mobile Phones – Vision Document and
Project Framework,” CGAP and MMA, Maldives, December 2006. Authored by Gautam Ivatury (CGAP
technology specialist), Bill Donges (Payment Systems and Banking Technology- CGAP consultant), Peter
Goldfinch (Mobile Phone Payment Systems - CGAP consultant), Keith Smith (Banking and Payment
Systems Regulations - CGAP consultant), and Jenny Hoffman (Mobile Phone Banking - CGAP
consultant). Ibraheem Naeem (MMA) made important contributions
7
  Under the Banking Act, Section 37, MMA could ask the banks to participate in such schemes however,
enforcement is questionable.

                                                 19
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.4. The World Bank team included experienced staff with expertise in relevant areas,
including payments systems, legal and Anti-Money Laundering (AML)/Combating the
Financing of Terrorism (CFT), environment, procurement, and financial management.
There was considerable continuity in the project team; particularly the Task Team Leader
(TTL) and the Lead Counsel remained involved from the beginning to the end of the
protracted implementation period. Moreover, CGAP technical specialists (consultants)
were on board for the entirety of the project; they designed and wrote the technical
documents, as well as handled the regulatory and operational aspects of banking and
mobile payments. The strong legal expertise in the team spotted the need for MMA’s
legal mandate and suggested amendments to the MMA Act to mandate that all banks
participate in nationally important projects. Furthermore, the legal team drafted the
payment systems law that would have given MMA broad explicit powers in all matters
pertaining to payment systems. However, this was stuck in the political turmoil even to
date. Moreover, even the draft payments regulations were drastically revised by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and recommendations that would have transformed
MMA into a central bank were watered down by IMF amendments.

5.1.5. Also, notably, the legal team achieved under the project rubric several noteworthy
improvements to Maldives’ legal and regulatory framework with respect to the country’s
financial system. When the project commenced in 2008, the legal framework for the
financial system was at a rudimentary stage. Apart from the MMA law, no major law
existed other than the financial institutions’ regulations. The team worked with MMA to
develop the anti-money laundering regulations, the payment system regulations, the
consumer protection regulations, and the agency regulations for MPS. Legal technical
assistance was provided through continuous interaction and collaboration with not only
the legal officers but officers from various departments of the MMA. Consultancy
support was also provided for the system rules relating to RTGS and the ACH. The
project was a catalyst for the drafting of the AML Law and the Payments Law.

5.1.6. Further, the World Bank team conducted regular half-yearly implementation
support missions from 2008 until 2013. In 2009, three missions were conducted. The
March 2009 mission first flagged the possibility that BML may not participate in the
project, as it was delaying the signing of the MOU with MMA concerning participation.
The June 2009 mission then downgraded both the DO and IP to Moderately
Unsatisfactory for the first time when MMA was still unable to get BML to sign the
MOU. The World Bank also held up the clearance of the contract for implementation of
the MIPS. The November 2009 mission then upgraded the project to Satisfactory once
again after BML signed a conditional MOU. The World Bank cleared the contract for
implementation of the MIPS and implementation proceeded as usual. This corresponds to
a period during which there were leadership changes in government, in MMA, and in
BML; the task team noted that the strong commitment and ownership of the government
                                            20
and MMA was now less certain. The leadership changes tilted the balance of power in
favor of BML, and since then, MMA has been unable to convince BML to participate in
the project.

5.1.7. At this time, constraints to further project implementation occurred within a
changed political landscape. Given BML’s legitimate commercial interests and MMA’s
relative powerlessness to mandate this major bank’s participation in the project for the
overall benefit of the economy and the country, it is unclear what, if any, leverage the
task team or bank management in fact held to resolve the impasse.

5.1.8. At this critical juncture, the task team urged the sale of the MIPS platform to
BML or to either MNO. However, BML had already concluded investment initiatives in
its own card platform, which it considered to be more advanced than Keesa. Without
BML’s participation, the MNOs could not identify a business case that made the
approximately US$700,000 investment in Keesa worthwhile,8 especially since the highly
customized platform was now considered technologically obsolete and would require an
additional upgrade investment of more than US$200,000.

5.1.9. Once these efforts failed, neither the MMA nor the MOFT could do anything
more to bring the project back on track.

5.1.10. Although the World Bank and CGAP provided high quality and continuous
technical inputs throughout the lifetime of the project, additional due diligence during
supervision would have allowed the project task team to early identify triggers for critical
events, to stop those events from happening, to change course, or, indeed, to undertake
restructuring actions, including consideration of cancellation when project development
objectives seemed unlikely to be realized. However, despite clear signals that BML’s
collaboration was hesitant and that neither the Government nor MMA were willing or
able to persuade BML to participate, no proactive action was taken during the entire 6
year supervision period. The borrower’s and World Bank management’s decision to
undertake a Level I restructuring would have allowed a recalibration of the project in
order to achieve some degree of development effectiveness.

5.1.11. As a result of the inadequate focus on achieving results with respect to the Project
Development Objective, the quality of supervision is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall World Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.12. Based on the Unsatisfactory rating for quality at entry and the Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating for project supervision, overall World Bank Performance is rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory in accordance with the Independent Evaluation Group’s
(IEG) harmonized rating criteria.


8
    See Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report for the value of investment in the Keesa platform.

                                                    21
5.2.   Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.2.1. During the appraisal and effectiveness of the project, the government’s
commitment to it was strong. However, with the changes in the government that occurred
in 2009, that commitment appeared to wane. Therefore, when BML dragged its feet in
signing the MOU with MMA to secure its participation in the project, the government did
nothing to change the bank’s decision, despite the fact that two government Directors sat
on BML’s Board and the government owned 51 percent of BML’s shares. The Minister
of Finance had reiterated its inability to advise the BML to join the MPS, as it would be
construed as an intervention in bank operations. In the interest of benefits that would
accrue to the general population, the government should have directed BML to go along
with the project, since MMA had offered certain incentives. Overall, one notes a lack of
commitment from both the MOFT and MMA senior management. This may have baffled
the World Bank team, which was relying on the government’s commitment and majority
ownership of BML to ensure that the largest bank participated fully in the project. The
government’s performance during the project is, therefore, rated as Unsatisfactory.

5.2.2. Nevertheless, on a very positive note, the Government deserves strong credit for
showing commitment to the overall objective of providing financial access to the people
of Maldives through the use of mobile phone banking. This commitment is demonstrated
by the fact that the government, even after the project has closed, is actively exploring
with the World Bank Country Director advice for how to pursue a simple, straightforward
and low cost mobile money solution that would allow for greater financial access while
ensuring consumer protection.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.2.3. The implementing agency, MMA, worked closely with the World Bank Group
staff from the design of this project until its closing. MMA appointed highly motivated
and committed counterparts to work with the international advisors financed under the
project. The Authority also deserves very positive recognition for its successful
implementation of the RTGS and part of the ACH system, and its efforts to strengthen the
legal and regulatory framework for the financial sector.

5.2.4. However, with hindsight, it appears that MMA’s inexperience was a big
hindrance in its ability to steer the project successfully towards its stated objective to
extend financial access through mobile phone banking. The Authority was overly
dependent on CGAP and the World Bank for the scope and design of the project and on
the international experts that were hired by CGAP and the World Bank to assist in the
implementation of this overly complex project. Moreover, the leadership changes in the
MMA also appeared to diminish their commitment and ownership. As the regulator of all
banks in the country, it was expected that MMA could have exercised moral suasion to

                                           22
secure BML’s participation in this project. However, as discussed above, as a monetary
authority MMA lacked legal authority over the financial and payment system; the
Ministry of Finance, as the 51 percent owner of BML, chose not to mandate BML’s
participation in the project by negotiating terms that might have been more attractive to
its commercial interests.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.2.5. Considering that both the government Performance and the Implementing Agency
Performance are Unsatisfactory, the Overall Borrower Performance is rated as
Unsatisfactory.

6.    Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

6.1.1. The first lesson to be learned from this experience is the critical importance of
having a committed and reform-minded leadership and senior management, as well as a
capable project team for implementing and sustaining complex technology-related
projects. Payment systems are considered to be even more complex than IT projects.
Payment systems implementation is composed not only of ICT, but also includes the
application of payment rules, central banking and settlement, and risk management
aspects. Hence, for the World Bank, it is important to ensure that the organization’s
management is fully committed to reform, that it has the support of senior policymakers,
and that there is likely to be policy continuity over the project’s lifecycle. The project
design team should always keep in mind that government’s commitment is likely to
change over the implementation period as it proved to be in this case and, therefore, plan
mitigating actions to be invoked if and when this commitment should waver. While at
project inception there appeared to be a strong commitment among the parties involved in
the MPBP, several changes in leadership occurred. The political instability that prevailed
in the country from 2009 until recent times impacted the decision making process as well
as the MMA’s and MOFT’s commitment. That softened commitment clearly impacted
the implementation of the project.

6.1.2. Another lesson relates to the need to recognize early (at the planning and design
stage) the technical complexity, substantial risks, and required mitigation measures
associated with implementing large-scale technical programs, especially in an institution
that has limited in-house technical knowledge and capacity. Furthermore, BML’s
participation was critical to operationalizing the project as it had been designed; hence,
BML’s role and participation in the project should have been addressed and managed as a
critical event. The World Bank did not properly identify these substantial risks.

6.1.3. When undertaking a complex design that has not been previously tested,
especially, when the project is recognized as a “pilot”, it is essential for alternative plans



                                             23
to be included in the project design as a Plan B that can be put in place in case critical
risks trigger the need for remedial actions.

6.1.4. This project has once again validated the “Keep it Simple” (KIS) principle for
designing World Bank projects. While it is often tempting to opt for a complex model
that could represent a “first” in the world, practicality and pragmatism dictate that such
attempts should be avoided, especially in developing countries with limited capacity and
a shortage of skills. The unique Regulator-led MFS model with total inter-operability,
was clearly an overly ambitious effort that over engineered the goal to introduce simple
mobile phone-enabled banking services in a country with high mobile phone penetration.

6.1.5. Another key lesson is the importance of defining the Project Development
Objective and to link it closely with a Results Framework (outcome and output
indicators) that allows accurate measurement of progress towards achieving the project
goal. Some project components were not adequately linked to the PDO or the
performance indicators. As a result, it was difficult for the project team to accurately
assess project achievements and ratings (even though these components were
successfully implemented).

6.1.6. During project implementation and supervision, ongoing due diligence by the
project team, combined with careful monitoring of achievement of project development
objectives are keys to recognizing (a) when achievement of the PDO is off-track, (b) the
appearance of “show stopper” risks and events; and (b) the need to change course by
proactive restructuring. In the case of this project, it seems that the focus on
implementing the RTGS and ACH systems drew attention and resources away from the
main project objective and the main project component which was to develop the
interoperable mobile phone solution that would enable the population to access their
accounts using their mobile phones. As a result, it seems that due diligence and focus on
PDO achievement was diluted and opportunities to change course were missed.

6.1.7. Shifting course during project implementation, when a critical event that
significantly impacts project completion is triggered, is an essential element of good
project management. In this project it seems that the project team never attempted to
change course during the six years of the project period. Often there are different paths
that can be taken to achieve the same goal and this project might have had a more
successful end if the project had been restructured when it was facing challenges.

6.1.8. This project has also demonstrated the need for meaningful consultations with all
stakeholders at all times. Simply relying on the power and influence of the government to
force the participation of an unwilling participant did not work in this case. On the other
hand, continuous and regular consultations at every step of the project, and listening
carefully to the needs of the participants, could have been more effective in ensuring
greater commitment and ownership from the stakeholders.

6.1.9. Another important lesson from this project is that technology-ingrained projects
should be implemented quickly, before the selected technology becomes obsolete. This

                                            24
also reinforces the need to keep the design and scope of such projects extremely simple
so that they can be implemented quickly.

6.1.10. This project also reinforces the fact that changing the legal framework is time-
consuming and fraught with risks. Although the World Bank team incorporated a legal
expert in the design and implementation of this project and drafted important regulations,
even today (post project closing) the crucial Payment Systems Law that would give
authority to MMA to manage electronic and mobile phone-enabled banking has not been
passed by Parliament.

6.1.11. Government’s role in mobile banking operations should be re-examined, and a
better delineation of government and private sector roles should be developed. Mobile
banking or innovations in financial services, more broadly, is cross-sectoral. Innovations
span the financial sector (including payments, commerce, retail, and in some cases,
microfinance) and the ICT sector (including, telecom services and in some cases postal).
Today, the limited growth of mobile banking globally is due, in part, to a silo-led
approach pursued by stakeholders, including by operators and donors. There is
something to be learned from countries that have cross-sectoral strategies and approaches
as they enable the development of widely used mobile banking and other electronic
payment services to expand financial access by their populations.

6.1.12. Finally, a successful system for mobile money or mobile financial services should
pass the 3Cs test for effective implementation: Control, Coverage, and Cost. Control
refers to the regulator’s ability and jurisdiction to inspect, supervise, and mandate all the
participants of the systems. It also includes the regulator’s powers and effectiveness to
effect compliance with all regulations and guidelines. This can be done either through an
adequate legal framework or through power and influence originating from an authority.
Coverage involves inclusivity and the technical capacity to include the targeted
beneficiaries at a reasonable price. Cost refers to the need to make the services affordable
and demanded by the target beneficiaries. It can be ensured through competition,
efficiency, and proper regulations.

7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                             25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
            Components                                  Estimate
                                    (US$ million)                          Appraisal
                                                      (US$ million)
1. Establishment of Maldives
     Interoperable Payment                 6.85              5.71                 83
     System (MIPS)
2. Build an enabling
     environment and capacity –
     legal and regulatory, public          1.50              1.50              100
     awareness and project
     implementation.
3. Technical expertise and
                                           1.25              1.25              100
     support
4. Market Survey and impact
                                           0.25              0.25              100
     measurement
              Total Baseline Cost          9.85              8.71              88.4
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00                 0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies
                                         0.70                 0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs        10.55                 8.71             82.6
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                 0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                 0.00             0.00
     Total Financing Required            9.20                 8.71             94.7




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of                                 Percentage of
          Source of Funds                            Estimate      Estimate
                                    Cofinancing                                 Appraisal
                                                  (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                          1.35          1.35          100
Consultative Group to Assist the
                                                  1.50         1.50          100
Poorest (CGAP)
International Development
                                                  7.70         5.86          76
Association (IDA)




                                           26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project had two main components:

Component 1 - Create, establish, and operationalize the Maldives Interoperable
Payments System (MIPS): (US$6.00 million). The payment system was designed as a
single-currency system operating in Maldivian Rufiyaas (Rf) that would be capable of
interoperating with all local mobile network operators (MNOs) and integrating all the
banks. The main elements of the MIPS would be the Mobile Payment System (MPS), a
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system, an image-enabled Automated Clearing
House (ACH) system, and an Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)/Point of Sale
(POS)/Automated Teller Machine (ATM) front-end processing system. These elements
would be integrated into a single system, backed up by a disaster recovery system.

The intermediate outputs of this Component were:
    75 percent of the adult population will have a mobile phone account.
    100 percent of the populated islands by the end of the project will have at least
       one local agent at which mobile phone accounts can be opened.
    70 percent of the adult population will have a regular bank account.
    70 percent of salaries paid by resort owners will be deposited electronically and
       directly into employees’ bank accounts, which in turn can be accessed through
       mobile phone accounts.
    60 percent of the fishing boat load purchases by processing plants and official
       trading companies will be paid electronically.
    Amount of cash in circulation will decrease.

Component 2 - Building an enabling environment and the capacity to support
successful mobile phone banking systems – (US$1.00 million) It would be necessary to
develop and implement regulations to cover all aspects of the system, as well as build the
capacity of regulators to supervise it. To help ensure that people and businesses
understood the benefits of the system and adopted and trusted it, a promotion/public
education campaign was to be conducted. Finally, a mobile phone banking unit was
established under the MMA with the capability to implement MIPS.

The intermediate outputs of this Component were:
    An appropriate legal and regulatory framework covering all necessary topics for
       mobile phone banking and a national payments system will be designed and
       adopted by the end of 2008.
    Detailed implementing regulations for mobile phone banking and payment system
       are completed.
    100 percent of the populated islands will have a local agent with cash-in and cash-
       out facilities.
    The number of customers who report that they often cannot deposit or withdraw
       the amounts they need when they are at their local agent’s store will be less than
       100 per month.
    A promotion and public education campaign is designed and implemented.

                                           27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) and the Direct Credit system under the
Automated Clearing House (ACH) have been launched and are operating successfully.
The benefits that have accrued so far include:

      (i)     A fully functioning RTGS system that is processing 100 transactions on
              average per business day. During the busiest months of 2013, which are April
              and July, the RTGS processed 2,873 and 2,959 transactions respectively. In
              2013, a total of 22,059 transactions in Maldivian rufiyaa and 13,118
              transactions in U.S. dollars were processed. The values of transactions
              processed are Rf 351.43 billion and US$2.18 billion, respectively.9 Currently,
              a majority of the government payments above Rf 10,000.00 and US$5,000.00
              are channeled through the RTGS. While it is tempting to calculate the per
              transaction or per unit of currency value to determine the efficiency of the
              system, the current basis for determining the viability of RTGS has shifted
              from such estimates to assessing the benefits of mitigating settlement and
              systemic risk of interbank settlement process, and thereby avoiding stresses to
              the system arising from a default of a large-value payment. Since such a
              default could potentially trigger a financial crisis affecting the growth of the
              economy, RTGS plays a major role in preventing such defaults, the benefits of
              which are substantial. If large-value payments for all banks are left to be
              settled at the end of the day, the interbank exposures will build up, thereby
              increasing the risks from any bank’s inability to meet its obligations. If such a
              risk were to materialize and a bank was unable to meet its total obligation at
              the end of the day, its default would cause a ripple effect in the banking sector
              as the liquidity position of all banks would be affected by the default and
              many banks would be unable to meet the cash withdrawal requests of their
              customers. Thus, the RTGS reduces that risk by effecting actual settlement of
              funds between the banks in the MMA’s books in real time before the
              interbank exposures get too high, and also helps banks to manage their
              liquidity effectively.
      (ii)    A fully functioning Direct Credit service under the ACH that is processing
              225 transactions on average per business day since the system went “live” on
              February 2, 2012. During the year 2013, ACH has processed a total of 81,947
              transactions, which includes 51,895 Maldivian rufiyaa transactions and 30,052
              U.S. dollar transactions. Moreover, the Cheque Truncation and Imaging
              system is expected to go “live” by June 30, 2014 and the Direct Debit service
              under the ACH is also expected to go “live” by December 31, 2014, thereby
              adding further to the existing benefits. An additional benefit is accruing by
              way of electronic transfer of pension payments of all retired government
              officials directly to their bank accounts. These pensioners appreciate this



9
    Source: Payment Systems Department, MMA, obtained during the ICR mission.

                                                  28
benefit, which spares them the trouble of having to travel to Male from their
resident islands to collect their pensions.




                               29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                    Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Nagavalli Annamalai          Lead Counsel                            LEGPS
Sriyani M. Hulugalle         Senior Economist                        SASFP
Manoj Jain                   Lead Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Kadija A. Jama               Program Assistant                       CPFCF
Sashikala Krishani Jeyaraj   Program Assistant                       SASFP
Luwisdura Lohitha Sanjee
                             Private Sector Development Specialist   SASFP
Karunasekera
Sumith Pilapitiya            Lead Environmental Specialist           SASDI
Stephen F. Rasmussen         Lead Specialist                          CGP
Miriam Witana                Procurement Specialist                  EASR1
Supervision/ICR
Nagavalli Annamalai          Lead Counsel                            LEGPS
Paul Joseph Breloff          Consultant                               CGP
Ludmilla Butenko             Country Manager                         LCCPA
Gautam J. Ivatury            Consultant                               CGP
Manoj Jain                   Lead Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Sashikala Krishani Jeyaraj   Program Assistant                       SASFP
Luwisdura Lohitha Sanjee
                             Private Sector Development Specialist   SASFP
Karunasekera
Robert Keppler               Consultant                                FFIFI
Karunakaran Krishnaswamy     Consultant                               SASSP
Timothy Lyman                Lead Policy Officer                       CGP
Ignacio Mas                  Consultant                               LCSPF
Sumith Pilapitiya            Lead Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Stephen F. Rasmussen         Lead Specialist                           CGP
Najfa Shaheem Razee          Consultant                              SACMV
Ala Michael Tarazi           Senior Regulatory Specialist              CGP
Supul Chamikara Wijesinghe   Financial Management Specialist         SARFM
Miriam Witana                Procurement Specialist                  EASR1




                                              30
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ thousand (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                      43.53                    165.30
                          Total:                                     165.30
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                     0.35                        1.19
 FY09                                     26.97                      120.25
 FY10                                     18.63                      114.62
 FY11                                     13.95                       87.88
 FY12                                     15.06                       88.26
 FY13                                     17.7                        89.82
 FY14                                     27.45                      157.93
                          Total:         120.11                      659.95




                                       31
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                       32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Project consists of two major components: (i) Establishment the Maldives
Interoperable Payment System (MIPS); and (ii) Building an enabling legal and regulatory
framework and enhancing the capacity of the MMA to manage the MIPS. The MIPS has
four components: (i) Real Time Gross settlements (RTGS); (ii) Automated Clearing
House (ACH); (iii) Mobile Payment System (MPS); and (iv) Electronic Fund Transfer
(EFT) Switch. The technical aspects of all four components except Switch have been
completed, including the user acceptance tests of three major components: ACH, RTGS,
and MPS. The RTGS has been operational since April 2011 and is functioning as
planned. One of the sub-components of the ACH, i.e. Direct Credit payments, has been
launched successfully and is meeting commercial bank and customer needs. The majority
of government payments are carried out through the RTGS and ACH, while aiming to
discontinue the usage of cheques to make government payments by the end of this year.
The government plans to make all payments through the automated payment system
introduced under the MPBP project. The MPS, which would have enabled the citizens
living outside Male Atoll to access finances services, has not been launched due to lack
of interest by the participating stakeholders.

1) The RTGS processes large-value and time-critical or urgent inter-bank transactions in
real time on a gross basis. For example, a customer’s large-value payment to a third-party
account held in a different bank can be processed immediately between the banks,
reducing the processing time, rather than settled at the end of the day. If left to be settled
at the end of the day, the interbank exposures will build up, increasing the risk if a
participant is unable to meet these obligations to other banks that a ripple effect could
occur, as the liquidity position of all banks will be affected, ultimately resulting in the
inability to meet customers’ demands. Thus, the RTGS system will reduce the risk in
payment systems and also help banks to effectively manage their liquidity. It reduces risk
by effecting actual settlement of funds between the banks in the MMA’s books in real
time before interbank exposures get too high.
Overall performance The MRTGS has been operational since April 2011 and has
processed a total of 35,177 transactions in the year 2013. This includes 22,059 Maldivian
rufiyaa (Rf) transactions and 13,118 U.S. dollar (US$) transactions. On average, MRTGS
processes 100 transactions per day. July and April 2013 were the busiest months to date,
with MRTGS processing 2,959 and 2,873 transactions during these months, respectively.
The system experienced downtime of seven hours during this period.
All the banks have signed the system rules. Currently, a majority of the government
payments for amounts above Rf 10,000.00 and US$5,000.00 are channeled through the
MRTGS.

2) The ACH, on the other hand, is a session-based interbank automated clearing system
for cheques, direct debits, and direct credits for small-value payments sent in batches. For
example, direct credits, which are payments such as payroll and pensions sent to multiple
recipients by a single party, can be sent in one file to the ACH instead of processing these
payments one by one. Banks and businesses can reap huge benefits from this ACH
system, as it provides a cheaper and easy alternative to sending and collecting payments

                                             34
from the use of direct debits and direct credits. The collection of payments (direct debits)
such as pension contributions, taxes, utilities, but also the disbursement of payments
(direct credits) such as salary and payroll, pensions, etc. will be made much easier.
Overall performance The ACH direct credit service has operated successfully since it
went live on February 2, 2012. During the year 2013, ACH has processed a total of
81,947 transactions, a figure that includes 51,895 Maldivian rufiyaa transactions and
30,052 transactions in U.S. dollars.

The other sub-system of ACH, the direct debit system, is yet to be implemented. This has
been delayed due to the delay in finalizing the Operational Guidelines. The MMA has
obtained the industry’s feedback and is in the process of finalizing the Guidelines. In
addition, MMA is planning to seek technical support from the Reserve Bank of India
during the initial implementation stage to address operational issues.
Meanwhile, MMA is finalizing the Payments System Law to provide a broader and
sounder legal framework for the payments system. The Law is expected to be submitted
to the Parliament before the end of this year. Given the delays in enactment by Parliament
(Majlis), it is difficult to establish an indicative timeline. This component is supported by
all the banks.

3) Mobile Payment System (MPS)/Keesa:
Keesa is a branchless banking service that will allow subscribers to open bank accounts
without visiting a bank branch simply by using mobile phones. This account allows
subscribers to make payments from and receive payments to these accounts via mobile
handsets and the Internet very conveniently.
Overall performance:
Final testing of the system commenced in November 2011 and was expected to be
completed by December 4, 2011 under the revised Project Plan. However, testing was
delayed as the software vendor rectified various issues in the MPS platform. During this
time, the software vendor addressed connectivity issues with the Dhiraagu SMS server.
The vendor resolved this issue on February 8, 2012. However, the platform experienced
another SMS encoding issue, which again prevented testing. The issue was resolved on
February 26, 2012. Some pending decisions within MMA regarding functionalities were
made and communicated to Fundamo based on their protocols on new changes at that
point in time. After resolution of the issues, the MMA team started testing the MPS in the
test environment on March 13, 2012 with a plan to start production environment testing
after a week. Deployment of the production system began on March 22, 2012. After
correcting several more database-related issues, the project team commenced testing on
the production system on April 5, 2012. MMA completed the initial user acceptance
testing of MPS on August 22, 2011.
Issues:
The design and commencement of the MPS was based on the MOU signed between the
banks and MMA. However, due to the non-participation of the only national bank in
Maldives (Bank of Maldives – BML), even though the system has been technically
completed, it cannot be made operational. Halfway into the project, BML adopted the
view that this system would erode its market share and allow other banks to be more
competitive, despite the fact that most other banks are more interested in serving their

                                             35
niche clientele. Given that BML accounts for more than 50 percent of the market share of
customers and has 26 branches, most in all Atolls Capital islands, its market share would
not have been affected. In fact, MPS would have helped to further widen its outreach to
the outer Atolls and would have attracted the unbanked population to the banking system.
Many attempts were made to assure BML and accommodate its requests. MMA even
brought in added functionalities at the technical level to minimize the cost of interfacing
for the participating banks, such as various reporting systems and “Converter Gateway.”
However, BML insisted that it would affect their card business adversely and refused to
participate, despite the MOU.

It is unfortunate that both the regulator (MMA) and the major shareholder (MOFT) were
unable to convince the national bank to participate in a national system that was designed
to help provide access to a large portion of the society. After the unsuccessful attempts to
find a buyer for the MPS, the current Board of the MMA has decided that it would
explore other options for utilizing the system to achieve its objective of reducing physical
cash in the country and providing access to financial services in the outer Atolls. The
mission is pleased to note that concerted efforts are being made to utilize the technical
solution that was developed under the project.

Sale of Keesa (MPS):

MMA, with approval from its Board of Directors, had decided to sell the tested and ready
MPS to an interested eligible party via a public tendering process, with the selected party
taking over the role of MPS Operator and working with the bank(s) and mobile network
operator(s) (MNOs) to offer this service to the public. The party that buys the system will
then need to establish a call center, undertake a comprehensive marketing campaign, and
establish an agent network. MMA had also received approval from the Ministry of
Finance and Treasury regarding the sale of MPS. MMA announced the Request for
Expression of Interest (EOI) for the sale of Keesa MPS on May 31, 2012. Interest was
shown by several parties who attended the information session held on June 7, 2012. The
EOI has been evaluated by MMA and the shortlisted parties were invited to submit bids
after signing Non-Disclosure Agreements. The deadline for submission of bids was
extended to October 21, 2012.

The only potential bidder, Dhiraagu, informed MMA that they were ultimately unable to
bid for the MPS as they could not see a viable business case for implementing the system,
and the financial viability of this product appeared to them quite unattractive. The
estimated customer base and transactional volume does not come close to covering the
investment of the Keesa system and operating costs. Therefore, according to Dhiraagu,
the likelihood that Dhiraagu will launch mobile money as a stand-alone product is
unlikely.

4. Interoperable EFT Switch:

The EFT Switch will establish interoperability of all card transactions in Maldives, by
connecting all banks card systems to the Switch. The Switch will allow banks to provide


                                            36
services to their customers using a widespread network of ATM and POS infrastructure
throughout the country at a lower cost.

        Issues:

There are many issues in implementing this component of the project. Banks showed
little interest in running the EFT Switch as a common switch. Hence, the Switch could
not be launched according to plans. Without the clear legal authority to mandate that all
banks connect to the Switch, it became difficult for MMA to pursue its implementation.
Some of the delays in connecting to banks’ switches occurred because this required
connecting to overseas systems managed in banks’ head offices, and there are layers of
communication channels involved in the process. In spite of this, MMA began testing the
EFT Switch application using simulators.

The UAT commenced in March 2011. The Switch UAT proceeded reasonably well until
issues in the system were identified and Montran’s subcontractor Clear2Pay (C2P)
became unwilling to provide the necessary support. C2P acquired Jware during 2010; in
the second quarter of 2011 it stopped all its support to MMA due to a dispute between
C2P and Jware/Aconite, from whom C2P took over the contract. Due to a difference of
version between the MMA Switch and the banks’ Switch, Gateway, a third-party protocol
converter was introduced to overcome the obstacles in connecting with the MMA Switch.
Resolving the issues that arose during the UAT took time, as issues had to be forwarded
between the Switch and Gateway vendors.

The World Bank’s May 2011 supervision mission noted in its Aide-Mémoire that the
absence of the Switch would not compromise the basic features of the MPS.
Implementation of the Switch requires careful planning by banks, the technical ability to
connect to the Switch, as well as the MMA’s clear legal authority to mandate
participation by all banks.

Given the considerable investment made in this component, MMA made one last attempt
by speaking with the banks to assess the possibility of using the Switch as a consortium
of banks. The Governor met with all banks operating in the country, with the exception of
BML and HSBC, and the bank representatives promised to speak with their management
and return with responses. Following these negotiations with stakeholders, not a single
positive response has been received to date, as none of the parties expressed an interest in
the Switch system.

MIPS IT Infrastructure and Network:

The MIPS network was redesigned and reconfigured in December 2010 as the network
proved to be unstable and did not conform to Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards. This
change caused a three-month shift in the project plan. The network has proven to be stable
since the changes were made. MMA IT staff completed User Acceptance Testing of the
upgraded network and system architecture in March 2012 with a formal sign-off on March
24.



                                            37
This complex network is designed to support four major applications, each used by
multiple banking institutions. The vendor advised that MMA IT is currently not equipped
to handle 24/7 systems given MMA’s limited staff and breadth of knowledge. Hence,
building the IT Team’s capacity to support and manage the MIPS infrastructure was
identified as an important area under this component. To this end, a three-month support
and training program was conducted by HWG, an Italian Cisco Certified company, from
June to September 2011. Furthermore, two staff from the project’s IT team attended a
short-term technical training course in Malaysia in October 2011.

MMA also sought assistance from Montran in developing an Operations Plan for ACH
and RTGS under a Change Request, as internal project staff has limited resources and
experience with real-time interbank operations. RTGS and ACH are business-critical
systems, and these two systems require a proper operational plan to be in place to ensure
business continuity and to eliminate service disruption. A draft Operations Plan was
delivered to MMA in March 2012.

Disaster Recovery System:

The Disaster Recovery (DR) Data Center was relocated from the temporary location to its
permanent location in January 2012. The DR Data Center setup is now ready, and data
replication between Primary and DR Center began on March 15, 2012.

Regulatory Framework: Building an enabling legal framework to support the operation
of the new systems is an element of the second component of the project. In view of
achieving this, MMA issued the Payment Systems Regulation on April 7, 2011 and the
Financial Transaction Reporting Regulation on July 20, 2011.

Payments Systems Regulation: The main purpose of this regulation is to recognize the
RTGS, ACH, and Switch as “systems as such,” so that the transfer orders within such
systems are considered as final and irrevocable, provided that they were entered into prior
to the opening of insolvency proceedings against the said banks. The regulation also
protects the netting arrangements underpinning the ACH and Switch, and organizes the
truncation of the cheques in connection with the processing of the latter within the ACHs.
The regulation is issued under section 65 of the Maldives Banking Act.

Payments Systems Regulation is an interim solution that secures the overall legal
soundness of the above-mentioned systems until such time as the Payment Systems Law
is enacted. The regulation paved the way for RTGS to go live in April 2011 and the ACH
to go live in February 2012.

Financial Transaction Reporting Regulation:

This Regulation is issued under sections 38 and 65 of the Maldives Banking Act, to
prevent Maldives financial and payment systems from being used to promote Acts of
Terrorism and Money Laundering, or financial services and products from being used to
conceal Proceeds of Crime. Section 14 of this regulation covers mobile bank accounts.



                                            38
Mobile Bank Account Agent Regulation has been drafted and is under review. Given
that the future of MPS is uncertain, the issuance of this regulation has been postponed.
Once MPS has been divested to a third party, MMA will issue this regulation in due time
for MPS to go live.

Consumer Protection Regulation has been drafted and is under review.

Note:

The above-mentioned are the issues, challenges, successes, and experiences the MMA
faced and gained in brief for the MIPS Project. We thank the World Bank, CGAP for the
technical, legal, and financial support and assistance rendered for this national project
that aims to establish at financial inclusion for Maldives.




                                           39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not Applicable




                                    40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Developing a National Banking and Payment System with Mobile Phones:
       Vision Document and Project Framework. Developed Jointly by the Consultative
       Group for Assistance to the Poor and Maldives Monetary Authority, December
       2006.
   2. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR4.9
       million (US$7.7 million equivalent) to the Republic of Maldives for a Mobile
       Phone Banking Project, South Asia Region, March 11, 2008.
   3. Financing Agreement: Mobile Phone Banking Project between Republic of
       Maldives and International Development Association, June 23, 2008.
   4. Project Agreement: Mobile Phone Banking Project between International
       Development Association and the Maldives Monetary Authority, June 23, 2008.
   5. The Maldives Mobile Phone Banking Project: Interim Report, Price Waterhouse
       Coopers, July 2009.
   6. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Maldives Mobile
       Phone Banking Project, May 4, 2012.
   7. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Maldives Mobile
       Phone Banking Project, December 15, 2013.
   8. Maldives Mobile Phone Banking Project, Financial Monitoring Reports as at
       December 31, 2013.
   9. Maldives Mobile Phone Banking Project, Aide Mémoire by Implementation
       Support Missions, 2008 to 2013.
   10. Implementation Status and Results Reports on Maldives Mobile Phone Banking
       Project (P107981), Sequence 1 to 13, 2008 to 2013.

List of PowerPoint Presentations made by the Bank Implementation Support missions to
various stakeholders from 2008 to 2013:
    1. Maldives Inter-Operable Payment System (MIPS) – Concept and Overall
        Architecture, December 2007 (for discussion with Participant Banks and MNOs).
    2. Financial Inclusion and Access to Finance through Mobile Phone Banking
        (Keesa).
    3. Keesa Banking, It’s Mobile.
    4. Maldives Branchless/Mobile Banking Project – February 24, 2009. Presentation
        made by Nagavalli Annamalai, Lead Counsel, LEGPS, World Bank, at the FPD
        Forum, 2009.
    5. Mobile Phone Banking. Presentation made to the Board of the Bank of Maldives
        Ltd., on June 20, 2010.
    6. Maldives MPS: Business Issues Review, August 12, 2010 (for circulation).




                                         41
MAP




      42
