              Document of
           The World Bank


                                       Report No: 68059-MV




        RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                 ON A

   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                  OF
MALDIVES MOBILE PHONE BANKING PROJECT

  BOARD APPROVAL DATE APRIL 17, 2008

                TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES


              May 4 , 2012
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ACH    Automated Clearing House
MIPS   Maldives Interoperable Payments System
MMA    Maldives Monetary Authority
MOFT   Ministry of Finance and Treasury
MPBP   Mobile Phone Banking Project
MPS    Mobile Payment System
MRF    Maldivian Rufiyaa
RTGS   Real Time Gross Settlements System




          Regional Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                 Country Director:        Diarietou Gaye
         Sector Manager / Director:       Ivan Rossignol/Sujatha Lamba
                Task Team Leader:         Sriyani M. Hulugalle




                                      2
          MALDIVES — MALDIVES MOBILE PHONE BANKING PROJECT
                                P107981
                        CREDIT NUMBER 4393-MV

                                   Restructuring Paper

1.     The closing date for MALDIVES MOBILE PHONE BANKING PROJECT,
Credit No 4393-MV, P107981 will be extended from June 30, 2012 until December 31,
2013.

2.       The Mobile Phone Banking Project (the “Project?) is a pilot to provide a national
inter-operable payments system that facilitates access to financial services to a larger
segment of the population in Maldives. The Project is implemented by the Maldives
Monetary Authority (MMA) and consists of two components: (1) establishing and
operationalizing the Maldives Interoperable Payments System (MIPS); and (2)
institutional strengthening and capacity building for the MIPS. The first component has
four sub-components: (a) Real Time Gross Settlements System (RTGS), (b) Automated
Clearing House (ACH), (c) Mobile Payment System (MPS), and (d) Electronic Fund
Transfer switch. The RTGS was launched in April 2011 and has carried out transactions
amounting to the $ 1.4 billion during the past 11 months. The ACH has launched the
direct credit payments in February 2012, however the cheque clearing and the debt
payments still have to be implemented in a phased manner during 2012. The MPS is
nearing technical completion by end of June 2012, however in order to become
operational it needs to be handed over to a third party operator and user testing needs to
completed and be supported during the initial implementation stage. Under the second
component, the legal and regulatory framework has been almost completed. Payments
System regulations and the Financial Transactions reporting regulations were issued
during 2011. The Agents regulations and the Consumer protection regulations have been
drafted and need minor changes before being issued. The capacity of the legal
department of the Maldives Monetary Authority has also been upgraded. However, more
capacity building is necessary for the MMA staff and implementing agencies to ensure
smooth implementation of the system. The disbursement rate as of April 24, 2012 is 84%
and the Project Objectives continue to be achievable.

3.      The proposed extension is necessary to overcome implementation delays due to
the political turmoil in the country over the past few years, which hampered the decision
making process. The extension would allow the completion of critical components of the
Mobile Payment System and of the Automated Clearing House, as well as further
capacity building for the MMA staff and implementation support to ensure smooth
functioning of the system after its launch. Once implemented, the Project would also
provide learning experience for the Bank to replicate in other similar geographically
challenged countries. In order to achieve the completion of activities and supporting the
implementation during the initial implementation stage, an 18 month extension is
requested to the closing date. The Recipient has an action plan to implement the Project
during the proposed extension of the project.

4.     This will be the first extension of the Project.


                                              3
