Doci=nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONlY
Report No. 12437
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SECONI) ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2214-ZA)
(SUPPLFMENTAL CREI)]TS 2214-1-ZA AND 2214-2-ZA)
NOVFMBER 2, 1993
M^F<l 7FjFH 74-N  CIS  }1
Type: rtNc. 
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used b, recipients onlN in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Vorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kwacha (K)
Initial Year (March 1991)                    Completion Year (June 1992)
US$1 = K 53.3                                      USS1 = K 1'4&.9
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ              -    Bank of Zambia
CG               -    Consultative Group Meeting
DBZ              -    Development Bank of Zambia
DCA              -    Development Credit Agrecment
ERC              -    Economic Recovery Credit
ERP              -    Economic Recovcry Program
ESAF             -    Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP              -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP              -    Gross National Product
IDA              -    International Development Association
IMF              -    International Monctary Fund
MMD              -    Movement for Multi-Party Democracy
NAMBOARD    -    National Agricultural Marketing Board
NGO              -    Non-Goverment Organization
ODA              -    Overseas Development Administration of the UK
OGL              -    Open General License
PER              -    Public Expenditure Review
PFP              -    Policy Framework Paper
RPA              -    Regional Procurenient Advisor
ZCCM             -    Zambia Consolidated Coppci Mines
ZESCO            -    Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahimngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operions EvaluaJon
November 2, 1993
MEMQRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTl'ORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUTBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zambia - Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Credit 2214-ZA. Supplemental Credits 2214-1-ZA and 2214-2-ZA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zambia - Second Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) (Credit 2214-ZA and Supplemental Credits 2214-1-ZA and 2214-2-ZA) prepared by the
Africa Regional Office. Part II, consisting of a brief Government endorsement of PCR findings,
is included at the end of the PCR.
The Second ERC was initiated in February, 1991, upon completion of the First ERC (Credit
1720-ZA) which had a difficult history. By the time of effectiveness, the reform program supported
by the First ERC was not credible for three basic reasonis (1) the Government's attitude toward
"excessive' profits; (2) the perception that the program was externally imposed; and (3) powerful
interests opposed to change.
The Second ERC was to support economic reform s aimed at macroeconomic stabilization,
agriculture and trade liberalization, private sector development and publiz sector restructuring. The
operation also supported the Government's Social Action Program. This PCR contends that the
program was implemented as planned, with the exception of the maize price component.
Achievements have been mixed. The main shortcoming has been the failure to control inflation.
Progress on public sector reform and the social action agenda has also been slower than expected.
Overall, the operation is rated marginally satisfactory,  with uncertain sustainability and limited
impact on institutional development.
The PCR provi- _s an adequate summary of program implementation. In the planned audit,
OED will focus on the various constraints on formal sector adjustment policy initiatives. OED will
also look at the extent to which problems in the First ERC (noted above) were addressed.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authon.ation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBL4
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVER% CREDIT
(Credit 2214-ZA and Supplemental Credits 2214-1-ZA, 2214-2-ZA)
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                                i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECMIVE
A  The Economic Recoverv Program (ERP)                                             I
B.ackg.-ound                                                           1
Mac;roeconomic and Sectoral Objectives of the ERP                     2
Other Adjustment Programs and Complementarity with the ERP            2
B. Role of IDA                                                                    2
C. Performance and Accomplishments of the ERP                                     3
Design of the Operation                                               4
Assessment of Risks                                                   5
Lessons Learned for Subsequent Adjustment Programs                    6
D. lmplementation and Monitoring of Credit                                        7
Compliance with Conditions for Second Tranche Release                 7
Sustainability of Reforms and Remaining Policy Agenda                 7
Disbursements                                                         8
Audits                                                                9
Procurement                                                           9
Bank Supervision                                                      9
ANNEX 1 - Second Tranche Release Memorandum                                11
ANNEX 2 - Borrower's Comments                                              17
PART II - REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (Not submitted)
PART III - STATISTICAL DATA SUMMARY                                              19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofFicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2214-ZA and Supplemental Credits 2214-1-ZA, 2214-2-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Economic
Recovery operation in Zambia, for which Credit 2214-ZA in the original amount of SDR
149.6 million was approved on March 5, 1991. In addition, through the reflows program
two supplemental amounts, SDR 19.4 million (Cr. 2214-1-ZA) and SDR 7.6 million (Cr.
2214-2-ZA) were approved in support of the program. Credits 2214, 2214-1, and 2214-2
have been fully disbursed. Under the original Credit, cofinancing was provided by Finland
(grant agreement signed on February 26, 1992, in the amount of FM 9.5 million), Norway
(grant agreement signed on January 13, 1992, in the amount of US$1.2 million), and the
Netherlands (grant agreement signed on March 13, 1991, in the amount of DG 10.0
million). The original Credit and the two Supplemental Credits closed on June 30, 1992,
as estimated at appraisal.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Countrv Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department. Part II (Review from Borrower's
Perspective) has not been received. Parts I and III were sent to the Govemment with a
request for their comments, which were received and attached at the end of this report as
Annex 2.
Preparation of this PCR began during a mission in October 1992 and is
based, inter a, on the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, internal
IDA and Government documentation, and discussions with some of the key participants
during the implementation of the operation.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by John Todd, Principal Economist, and
Carolina Machado, Operations Analyst, from the managing division, AF6CO. The Task
Manager at the time of project appraisal and throughout implementation was John Todd.
The managing Division Chief and Country Director are Praful Patel (AF6CO) and
Stephen Denning (AF6DR).



ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2214-ZA and Stipplemental Credits 2214-1-ZA, 2214-2-7ZA)
PROJECr  COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) addressed the macroeconomic and sectoral
objectives of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in Zambia for the period 1991-93,
developed by the Government in collaboration with IDA and the IMF. On the
macroeconomic level, the key objectives of the ERP were to: (a) achieve an average annual
real GDP growth of at least three percent, with positive real per capita GDP growth in the
later years; (b) reduce progressively the rate of irnfation from 75 percent in 1990 to ten
percent or less in 1993; and (c) increase non-traditional exports by 20 percent in 1991 and by
at least ten percent per annum in real terms thereafter. On the sectoral side the ERP aimed
at (a) reducing the role and increasing the efficiency of the public sector; (b) removing
constraints to private sector growth; and (c) alleviating the burdens on the poor by enhanced
social services and special safety net programs.
2.    On May 1, 1987, IDA had suspended operations in Zambia due to non-payment of
debt service. An early objective of the ERC was the clearance of Zambia's arrears to the
World Bank, to regularize its debt relations with other creditors and to bring Zambia back
into the international financial community. This would help in getting the adjustment
program back on track and promoting the structural changes needed in the economy.
Clearance of arrears took place on March 13, 1991, about a week after Board's contingent
approval of the ERC, with the help of a bridge loan from the Bank of England. This was
immediately repaid with the proceeds from IDA disbursements, including the first tranche of
the ERC. Beyond this clearance, the financial support was aimed at permitting a modest
growth in imports while meeting Zambia's high debt service obligations.
3.    The main objective of the ERC was to support economic reforms aimed at:
(a) macroeconomic stabilization implemented under IMF monitoring; (b) liberalization of the
agricultural sector; (c) implementation of measures to support the Government's Social Action
Program; (d) trade liberalizatiG.,; (e) expansion of the role of the private sector in the
economy; and (f) restructuring the public sector, with particular emphasis on civil service and
parastatal reform.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.    In general the program and the operation were implemented as planned, except for
the maize price component. IDA supervision was done on a regular basis with continuous
monitoring of key macroeconomic areas by the Resident Mission staff. Release of the second



- ii 
tranche was delayed from August '1991 to January 1992, as required policy actions concerning
maize pricing were only implemented after a new government took office in November 1991.
As expected with this type of operation, the Credit disbursed quickly and in accordance with
relevant procurement guidelines.
RESULTS
5.    Achievements under the credit have been mixed. Overall, the measures it
implemented have been sustained, except in controlling inflation. Results can be reen in
structural reform with steady liberalization of the -econd window and OGL system; markcet
determination of the official exchange rate; ready access to foreign exchange for sma;l
transactions; launching of an ambitious privatization program; and an end to price conitrols.
6.    Progress in parastatal and civil service reform and on the social action side has been
slower, but reforms are underway. Many parastatals have improved their efficiency and are
operating on a more commercial basis, but the privatization program only achieved its final
sales in June 1993, and the modality for attracting private capital to ZCCM (the copper
sector) is stil under cdvelopment. The retrenchment part of civil service reform remains on
track, but Cabinet only approved the management improvement proposal in March 1993. On
the social action side, there has been little improvement in the quantity or quaiity of basic
social services so far.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.    Implementation of the ERC has shown that:
(a)   program design and degree of specificity in conditionality were appropriate;
and
(b)   the program gave a boost to the economic reform effort, while at the same
time bringing other donors to fully participate in the Zambia program.
8.    By demonstrating its commitment to the policy reforms and the conditionalities
attached to release of the second tranche, the Bank became stronger in its dealings with the
Government and increased its credibility with the donors.
9.    The innovative (and risky) approach to arrears clearance (by which the IDA Board
was asked to consider the credit before the arrears were actually cleared) was in the end
justified as it got the Zambia program restarted, both from a policy and a financial support
point of view. This enabled the new Movement for Multi-Party Dermlocracy (MMD)
govemment to move quickly in reaffirming and intensifying the existing policy direction, and it
allowed the Bank and the donors to move quickly in providing the necessary financial support
to that renewed program, including the extra support required by the 1992 drought.



ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREOIT
(COrdit 2214-ZA and Supplemental Credits 22141-ZA, 2214-2-ZA)
PROTECT COMPLMION REPORT
PAT I -        W         BANICS PERSPE
A. 3IUo ic  ecoveiy PrrMM  (ERPJ
Backffound
1.    The Zambian economy suffers from severe and long standing distortions requiring
a major structural adjustment effort. Its dominant characteristic is the heavy dependence
on a single commodity -- copper -- and the dualistic economic structure that has evolved
around this dependence. The vulnerability of the Zambian economy due to its heavy
dependence on copper was vividly demonstrated in the mid-1970s, when the commodities
boom of the previous decade came to an end.
2.    During most of the 1970s and early 1980s, economic policy was aimed at trying to
maintain consumption levels and living standards, despite declining real resource
availability. Subsidies were increased sharply and when combined with declining budgetary
revenues resulted in growing fiscal deficits. External borrowing increased, and when new
loans became difficult to obtain from abroad, increasing reliance was placed on domestic
banks to finance the fiscal deficits. Price controls were tightened, and the exchange rate
adjustment was resisted in an effort to contain inflation.
3.    Zambia's real per capita GNP fell by an average of 2.3 percent per annum during
the 1970s. In the following decade, real growth exceeded the rate of population growth in
only two years (1981 and 1988). As a result, GNP per capita declined by a further 50
percent during the 1980s. A number of factors account for the low growth in this past
decade, but the two most important causes were: (a) the foreign exchange shortage,
associated with the drop in mineral exports and the depressed copper prices, adversely
affected all sectors of the economy and (b) inappropriate economic policies, including
excessive public sector controls, resulting in misdirection of resources and poorly
conceived public investments.
4.    Several attempts at reforning the economy were made by the Government during
the 1970s and 1980s, some with support froin the Bank, the IMF, and bilateral donors, but
none was sufficiently comprehensive to bring about the structural changes required in the
economy. Probably the most ambitious attempt at reform was the Bank-IMF supported
program in 1985-87, the main pillars of which were adoption of a foreign exchange auction
to establish a market based exchange rate and a substantial liberalization of trade. Poor
implementation of this auction in an environment of continuing fiscal deficits and
monetary growth and insufficient donor support led to a collapse of this effort in May
1987.



- 2 -
macronoomc  nd Sectoral Objectives of the ERP
5.    The main macroeconomic targets for the period 1991-93 included:
(a)   achieving an average annual re.,! GDP growth of at least 3 percent. with
positive real per capita GDP growth in the later years;
(b)   reducing progressively the rate of inflation from 75 percent in 1990 to 10
percent or less in 1993; and
(c)   increasing non-tradiuonal exports bv 20 percent in 1991 and by at least 10
percent per annum in reai terms thereafter.
6.    Sectoral objectives of the ERP were to reduce the role and increase the efficiency
of the public sector, to remove constraints to private sector growth, and to alleviate the
burdens on the poor by enhanced social services and special safety net programs.
Reducing the role of the public sector involved initiating a program of privatization and
reducing government regulatory controls, esnecially in setting prices. Increasing efficiency
within government involved reducing the sn of the civil service (to permit a
rationalization of salaries), improving government operating procedures, and enhancing
high level capacities through technical assistance in the short-term and training and salary
enhancement in the longer-term. The private sector would benefit from the increased
reliance on markets to set prices, a more appropriate exchange rate, elimination of most
import and export licenses, less domination by parastatals, less credit requirements from
the public sector, and improved infrastructure.
Other Adjustment Programs and Complementarity v 'th the ERP
7.    The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was expected to be the first in a series of
adjustment operations. Subsequent operations include the first Privatization and Industrial
Reform Credit (PIRC I) in FY92, PIRC II in FY93, and a multi-sector adjustment
operation, Social Service and Economic Policy Reform Credit (SSEPRC), scheduled for
FY94.
8.    A Fund-monitored program was approved by the IMF Board in June 1990. In
April of 1991, the Fund Board approved the first ever rights accumulation program with
Zambia which established conditions under which Zambia would gradually accumulate
rights to withdraw IMF resources such that after three years, the accumulated rights could
be used to withdraw sufficient resources to clear completely Zambia's arrears to the IMF,
which were over US$1 billion in mid-1990. Due to poor fiscal performance, Zambia did
not qualify to accumulate rights in 1991. A revised rights accumulation program was
approved by the IMF Board in July 1992. The end-1992 benchmarks were subsequently
revised and approved by the Fund Board in December 1992. The Board approved the
first rights accumulation in April 1993.
B. Role of IDA
9.    After May 1, 1987, when Zambia abandoned the previous adjustment program and
IDA suspended operations due to non-payment of debt service, economic and sector work



was focussed almost exc'usively on the macroxconomic policy dialoguc The objective
during this period was to get the adjustment program back on track so that the structural
changes required in the economy could go ahead. On the ;na2roeconomic side, this earlier
work included the design of the adjustment program, particular, the undertak,:ng of
studies related to the development of the foreign exchange systlm, and completion of a
Public Expenditure Review. On the sector side, it included the development of a muster
plan for agricultural research and extension, plus considerahle policy anal,1sii (e.g., on
producer prices) and an institutional review (e.g., stru  'e and functions of tie Mlinistry
of Agriculture) in the agricultural sector. It also intluded a studyr of various operations for
protecting the poor from the adverse effects of the adj'ustment process, which event .al,-
led to the adoption of the maize meai coupon systein. An energy sector assessment was
completed, as was an in-depth review of the industrial sector, both of which contained
considerable material of use in designing the Economic Recovery Credit.
10.   The Bank has worked closely with the Government and the Fund to assess the
needs for improved publi sector capacity and to arrangc financing for technical assistance
in economic management and program implementation. A first Policy Framework Paper
was agreed by mid-1989 and approved by the Bank Board in September 1989.
Considerable attention was then given to working out ways to manage the debt service
arrears, to get Zambia back on a bath of meeting the debt service obligations, and to
resume external support from the Bank and other donors. Consultative Group meetings
were held in April and July 1990 where the broad outlines of an external financing
package were agreed. This enabled the work on the Economic Recovery Credit to go
forward, and by November 1990 the policies were largely agreed. It took until February
1991, to work out the final details, largely because additional external resources were
required. It was agreed to add $35 million to the size of the ERC, along with a deferral
of $35 million in arrears clearance by the IMF, and on that basis the external financing
gap was closed, and the Memorandum of the President was finally released.
11.   In addition to the macro-economic work and the Pubiic Expenditure Review
(PER), sector work resources were allocated to trade policy, parastatal reform, civil service
reform, social safety nets, and maize policy prior to the development of the Economic
Recovery Credit. This work helped the government to articulate specific policy objectives
in these areas which the ERC could support. The government established a negotiating
team under the Minister of Finance consisting of the Governor of the Central Bank, the
senior advisor to the Minister of Finance, and t} Permanent Secretary of the National
Commission for Development Planning. This group ccordinated government inter-action
with the Bank on the economic and sectDr work program.
C, Performance and Accomplishments of the ERP
12.   In designing the economic recovery program during the 1989/1990 period, the
government was hoping to make rapid progress across a broad front in order to change
the atmosphere in the Zambian economy, but they were also mindful of the constraints on
the speed of reform represented by the limited implementation capacity of the
government and by the political/social opposition that could paralyze the program's
implementation and seriously damage the economy. Tlhe result was a series of
compromises about how broad the initial program should be and of how fast some reforms
should be made. For example, fast progress on privatization was not expected, and it was



- 4 -
decided not to pursue rc6ormn% ia the finaiv ia; sector at the outset. Sirm..Jarly, the
introduction cf an open gene-ral license system was to be on a gradual hasis as d'inor funds
becanme available (remenbnU-irng th_ collapse of t;re previr.us Foreign exchange auttion
systLm caused in part by the slow arrival of dorn.*r fur.ds). 1t was also decided to phase out
maize siubsidWs gradual!y over tt- e period of the Pr .
13.   At the same time, goverrn.mepv had cec,ded ito huld a xeferenduir, on the queation
of one pay rmle versus multi-party democraciy. Later this rcfereodum was abandoneJ as
government decided to move direc,tcy lJ rmulti-party elecuons on October 31, 1991. The
campaigning for this electior consi;erab!y compli] ated government's economic decision-
making and ultimately proved the uiudci!ng of the program as the government decided not
to phase out maize subsidies as originally agreed, leading to a delay in release of the
second tranche, equivalent delays in other support, inability to pay debt service, and
eventually to suspension of Bank disbursements in September 1991.
Design of the Operation
14.   The major policy reforms to be supported by the ERC were:
(a)   the macroeconomic stabilization program implemented under IMF
monitoring;
(b)   the liberalization in the agricultural sector;
(c)   the implementation of measures to support the Government's Social
Action Program;
(d)   trade liberalization;
(e)    expansion of the role of the private sector in the economy; and
(f)   restructuring of the public sector, with particular emphasis on civil service
and parastatal reform.
15.   Macro stability is an essential ingredient for any adjustment program, particularly
in Zambia where the flexibility of price and wage adjustments has been limited. In
addition, the Government strategy was to remnove the bias against agriculture by freeing
prices and removing the public sector from most commerciai activities, followed by trade
and foreign exchange market reforms to increase the incentives for non-traditional exports
and to improve the allocation of imports. Government felt that the plimary source of
growth should be the private sector, *vith the public sector reoriented to more
complementary activities (such as infrastructure and the delivery of vital social service).
16.   Before the ERC could become effective, however, it was essential to clear
Zambia's arrears to the World Bank. This would then have the added benefit of helping
Zambia to regularize its debt relations with other creditors and thus to permit Zambia to
rejoin the international financial community. This was not an easy task because Zambia's
arrears to the Bank were approaching $300 million and to the IMF were over $1 billion.
The strategy that was adopted was two-fold. For the IMF, the level of arrears would be



brought down to the level as of January 1, 1990, (later changed to June 30, 1990). The
remaining arrears would be handled through a rights au-umulation program under which
Zambia would gradually accumulate the right to withdraw IMF resourr- until (afier about
three years) enough rights would be accumulated to repay the arrears a; which time
Zambia's arrears would be replaced by new IMF resources (prima. ily on ESAF terms).
For clearing the arrears to the World Bank, funds would be from three sources. First
donor funds would be accumulated in trust funds. Second, a bridge loan would be
arranged (with the Bank of England as it turned out) against the potential IDA
disbursements. Third, government would accumulate its own funds. Once the sum of
these three sources was equal to the total arrears to the Bank, the sequence would be for
the Board to approve the adjustment operation contingent on actual clearance of arrears,
the donor and government funds would be made available for payment, the bridge loan
granted, arrears cleared, suspension waived, credit effectiveness declared, disbursement by
IDA, and repayment of the bridge loan. These arrangements were discussed first in the
Operating Committee on January 25, 1991 and by the Joint Audit Committee on February
20, 1991. The Board approved the ERC on March 5, 1991, and the arr;ars clearance
sequence described above took place on March 13, 1991. The bridge loan from the Bank
of England was repaid 42 minutes after it was disbursed. The approximate financial
amounts involved were as follows:
ZAMB3L- Fimal Bank Clearance
(Milions of US$)
Amount Owed (3/13/91)                          319
Zambia paid (before 3/5/91)                     22
Donor funds available                           97
Recent Zambia Deposits                          16
Available                                      135
Left to pay                                    184
Bridge Loan                                    200
Excess Available                                16
Assssment of Risks
17.   At the time of appraisal, the ERC was considered an unusually risky operation,
with a high possibility of political setbacks. Other risks were that the :eform program
might not be managed effectively or that there could be a lack of sufficient financial
support for the program, due to lower donor disbursements or unforeseen extemal shocks
such as another oil crisis.



- 6 -
18.   In the event, one of the anticipated risks, specifically that domestic political
considerations would cause important parts of the program to be delayed, did occur, and
the result was a significant interruption in the program and eventually the suspension of
Bank disbursements. Most of the program was being implemented as agreed, but
government was unwilling to increase domestic mealie meal prices fast enough to reduce
maize subsides to agreed levels. After extersive discussions in June and July (including
two meetings with the country's President), the government would not make the required
changes, citing the possible domestic unrest that could result which they felt could imperil
the transition to multi-party democracy. The Bank was not willing to recommend a waiver
of this condition, however, and the policy impasse was reported to an informal donor
meeting in Paris in July 1991. Very little donor funds were disbursed after that, the
government was unable to meet its debt service obligations, and Bank disbursements were
suspended again on September 13, 1991.
19.   Unlike the May 1987 episode, however, the program was not repudiated. The
Government kept on with all but the maize and fiscal elements of the program. None of
the steps already taken were reversed. As a result, when the new Government came to
power in November 1991 and set abut improving the fiscal balance and increasing the
maize price, it was possible to release the second tranche of the ERC in January 1992,
with a smaller version of the Bank of England bridge loan (this time from Citicorp),
making possible the clearance of the approximately $40 million in debt service arrears that
had arisen over the previous six months.
Lessons Learned for Subsequent Adjustment Programs
20.   The design of the program was appropriate in terms of the topics covered and the
speed of reforms. The degree of specificity in the conditions was also appropriate. When
government resisted the price increases needed for the second tranche, there was no
ambiguity that those policies would hold up second tranche release. The clarifying letter
which was made part of the agreed minutes of the negotiations spelled out this condition
in even more detail. The program gave a boost to the economic reform effort and
brought the donors fully into the Zambia program. The Consultative Group (CG)
meeting in March of 1991 marked the real beginning of donor support for the program.
Unfortunately, the Minister's death immediately after the CG and the growing political
pressure leading up to the elections brought an interruption in some aspects of the reform
and a corresponding interruption in donor support, but without this beginning in early
1991, support for the renewed reform efforts by the new government in early 1992 would
have been much more difficult.
21.   The process of arrears clearance was very complicated and time consuming, but
the basic logic worked. Even when a country has substantial arrears, the Bret,:)n Woods
institutions were shown to have sufficient flexibility to enable international support to
resume, provided the country has an acceptable reform program and strong donor support.
This model has been useful in subsequent arrears clearing efforts.
22.   The delay in releasing the second tranche and the resulting suspension shouild not
be viewed as a sign of failure in the design or the implementation of the credit. On the
contrary, the Bank's unwillingness to release the second tranche affirmed our commitment
to these reforms and our unwillingness to support a program with fundamental



- 7 -
weaknesses. This experience strengthened our hand in dealing with the Zambians and
increased our credibility with the donors.
D. Implementation and Monitoring of Credit
Compfiance with Conditions for Second Tranche Release
23.   The conditions for second tranche release were to be met in the summer of 1991,
and the government and donors were informed that the Bank would not be releasing the
tranche until significant actions were taken in the area of increasing maize prices and
decreasing maize subsidies. These actions were not taken until after the new government
took office in November 1991. The tranche was released in January 1992. The second
tranche release memorandum, dated January 21, 1992, is attached as Annex 1.
Sustainabilitv of Reforms and Remaining Policy Agenda
24.   The measures implemented under the Economic Recovery Credit have been
sustained except for the control of inflation, which continued at near 100% in 1991 and
increased to over 200% in 1992. Fiscal and monetary discipline (especially control of
public sector wages and parastatal losses) have been a weakness of the Zambia program
for many years. Fiscal control has been good for periods but not for long enough to show
a significant turnaround in inflation. This will be a major test of the program in 1993.
25.   Far better progress has been made on the structural reforms. Progress in these
areas has been steady and in several cases ahead of schedule. The second window/OGL
system has been steadily liberalized. Now the official exchange rate is fully market
determined. The OGL covers 95 percent of base period imports on a negative list basis.
The export retention system permits 100 percent retention, and a bureaux de change
system has been introduced, with virtually unrestricted access to foreign exchange for small
transactions. All price controls have been abolished. (Even the Prices and Income
Commission is gone.) Fertilizer importation and marketing are fully liberalized. Private
traders can buy and sell all agricultural products with no public monopolies. The
NAMBOARD structures have been disbanded. Producer prices for all crops are set by
supply and demand (although there is still a producer floor price for maize). For maize,
Government was forced to buy up much of the crop this past year because the drought
meant that it had a near monopoly position as the recipient of all the donor maize.
Nonetheless, the price Government paid was consistent with world market prices and
plantings in 1992 remained good. As a result, the good rains of 1993 have produced what
appears to be a solid crop in 1993. The privatization progiam has made steady progress
after a delay caused by the new government's decision to seek a mandate from Parliament
for the program (which it received) and the setting up of a quasi-autonomous Zambia
Privatization Agency.
26.   The record on parastatal reform is mixed. Many parastatals have improved their
efficiency and are ornerating on a more commercial basis (e.g, ZESCO) while others have
been slow to move (e.g., Posts and Telecommunications). The new management of
ZCCM (copper) has discontinued their involvement with nearly all of the non-mining
activities and improved the efficiency of copper production. However, less progress has
been made toward clarifying the manner of attracting private capital to this vital sector.



- 8 -
Losses at Zambia Airways have been reduced, but until a way can be found to restructure
the composition and financing arrangements for the airplanes, even a break-even outcome
is unlikely.
27.   The retrenchment part of civil service reform remains on track with over 12,000
employees retrenched in 1992, but the more important management improvement part has
been slower in coming despite two successful workshops in 1991 that seemed to generate
a genuine commitment to some management reforms. In March 1993, Cabinet approved a
Public Service Reform Program designed to begin a process of management reform.
Work on a full package of retrenchment benefits, including counseling and retraining
services where appropriate, has also lagged behind schedule but should be in place this
year.
28.   On the social action side, the Government has tried to increase budget allocations
for these critical areas and has had some success in that regard, but there has been little
improvement in the quantity or quality of basic social services so far. There have been
some notable successes in this area, however. With the very generous assistance from the
international community, the government succeeded in avoiding food shortages during the
recent drought. A portion of the funds generated by the sale of donor maize was used to
assist with village improvement schemes related to water supply and food storage.
Through the Programme to P event Malnutrition, maize has been distributed free or at
high discount to vulnerable groups, and a labor-intensive Food for Work Programme has
been effective in feeding people, providing employment, and helping to rebuild roads,
schools, and clinics. The government made very constructive use of the NGO community
in designing and implementing those programs. In a related area, the Bank-assisted Social
Recovery Fund has assisted local communities in the building and rehabilitation of social
infrastructure. Efforts in 1993 will need to focus on improving the delivery of health,
eduction, water, and sanitation services where improvements have been slower in coming.
Disbursements
29.   The credit was disbursed in two tranches. The first one was disbursed in full on
the same day the credit was declared effective. The second tranche was released late in
January 1992 and also disbursed quickly, due to the fact that most of the Credit and its
two reflows were used for retroactive financing. Not all of the supporting documentation
could be found at BOZ. These documents, mostly in the case of imports by the Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM), were in the offices of a procurement agent in
London. To expedite matters and to allow for quick disbursing under the Credit, the
documents were sent to the Disbursement Division at the World Bank directly from
London.
30.   Disbursements were made in accordance with Bank procurrment guidelines and
Schedules 1 and 4 (Special Accounts) of the DCA. Some exceptions to these rules were
sought and obtained from the Regional Procurement Advisor (RPA), in order to disburse
US$70 million immediately upon release of the second tranche on January 31, 1992. A
waiver from using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in favor of more
simplified procedures (limited international bidding and selective bidding) was granted by
the RPA for various contracts.



-9 -
Audits
31.   In accordance with the DCA, the credit's linancial rccords, including thc special
account and statements of expenditures, were to be audited annually by independent
auditors and a certified copy of their report submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each year.
32.   As several IDA credits in Zambia were late with their audits, it was agreed that an
independent firm of auditors be hired by the Government to do all the overdue audits.
An auditing firm was hired by Government on June 15, 1992, and started work soon
afterwards. As regards the ERC, draft audit reports have been submitted to the Bank, for
comments, for the first and second tranche and covering the years 1991 and 1992. In this
draft reports, the auditors have indicated that there are funds disbursed under the credit
in 1992 which have not yet been audited due to unavailability of the supporting
documentation. The 1991 audits are clean and carry an unqualified opinion on the part of
the auditors, which has been accepted bY the Bank. The final audit report for 1992 is
expected on July 23, 1993.
Procurement
33.   Procurement was limited to eligible imports on the basis of a negative list in
accordance with Schedule 2 of the Developpment Crcdit Agreement and in accordanrce
with IDA procurement guidelines.
34.   Bank of Zambia staff was in charge of issuing irnport licenses to prospcctive
importers, of advising them of procurement procedures, and of keeping track of ensuing
disbursements. There was no lack of counterpart monev for obtaining import licenses and
covering import fees; under the OGI, system the demand for funds to finance imports
averaged US$5 million per week.
35.   Procurement activities and related disbursements under the Credit were managed
by staff at the Bank of Zambia (BOZ), but there was no formal monitoring system in
place during credit implementation. Although Zambia had been the recipient of IDA
financing for many years and procured goods and scr-vices in accordance with IDA's
guidelines, there had been little procurement activity for the years preceding the ERC, as
a result of the suspension of disbursements. In addition, staff at BOZ were relatively new
and were to a certain extent unfamiliar with IDA's procurement guidelines. All this
explained some of the delays in the utilization of funds, particularly for the second
tranche.
]ank Supervision
36.   Supervision missions were conductcd in April, June, August, and November of
1991 in addition to meetings held in Washington in December. The Resident Mission also
provided continuous monitoring of the key macro-economic areas. It was usually quite
clear to both sides what was intended, what was actually happening, and what would need
to happen to keep the program on track. In addition to the Consultative Group meeting
in March 1992, informal donor consultations took place in June and July to keep donors
abreast of developments concerning release of the ERC's second tranche.



- ii -
Sec M92-
January 21, 1992
From: The President
ZAMBIA: Economic Recovery Credit (2214-ZA)
Release of Second Tranche*
I.    Introduction
1.           Zambia is currently under suspensicn because the Government
owes US$51 million in debt service arrears to the Bank dating back to July
15. As discussed with the Joint Audit Committee on December 18, 1991, we
are issuing this second tranche release memorandum prior to our arrears
being cleared because this indication of Bank management support of the
policies and actions of the new government will be critical in securing the
donor support necessary for Zambia to clear its arrears with the Bank.  We
will not disburse any funds until our arrears are cleared and the
suspension lifted.
II.   Background
2.           Credit  2214-ZA, in the amount of US$210 million equivalent,
was approved by the Board on March 5, 1991, and was declared effective on
March 13, 1991, at which time the first tranche of US$130 million was
disbursed.  This credit is designed to provide import financLng in support
of Zambia's economic adjustment program, and, in particular, to assist
Zambia with the foreign exchange cash flow during the year in which the
arrears to the World Bank were being paid.
3.           As outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) 1991-93, the
overall aims of the adjustment program are to stabilize the economy through
fiscal and monetary restraint and to restore sustainable growth
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates                  *Questions on this
Office of the President                             document may be
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA             referred to
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA                 Mr. J. Todd (Ext. 3-5056)
Directors and Department Heads, Bank
IFC and MIGA



- 12-
in the medium term through policies of structural realiqnment and improved
incentives. The main structural objectives are to reduce the dependence on
copper by encouraging non-traditional export growth, to lower the capital
and import intensity of production and consumption, to increase savings and
investment levels, and to help reduce poverty by expanding employment and
income opportunities. Since achieving these objectives will mean
substantial restructuring of the economy, a complementary goal is to
protect vulnerable groups from the adverse impact of the adjustments.
4.          The requirements for release of the second tranche were
discussed frequently over this past summer. While policy performance in
most structural areas remained good, serious policy slippage was occurring
in the reduction of maize subsidies in particular and in budget deficit
control in general. The previous Government could not take the remedial
actions in these areas which we considered necessary because they felt the
public reaction could threaten the process of transition to multi-party
democracy. Other donors also refused to disburse balance of payments
assistance, and arrears on external debt worsened. Zambia was declared in
suspension by the Bank on September 13, 1991. Elections were held on
October 31, 1991. They were considered fair. The opposition party won
over 80 percent of the vote and captured the Presidency and over 80 percent
of Parliament. A new Government was appointed and moved quickly to restore
confidence and political stability. The new Government is also eager to
restore good relations with the donors, as well as the Bank and Fund, and
is strongly comrmitted to the policy agenda of the ERC and the PFP.
5.          The staff have continuously reviewed progress under the
adjustment program since the ERC was first approved.  Supervision missions
visited Zambia inl April, June, September, and December, and donor
consultations were held in Paris in March and July, with informal briefings
in June and December.  This memorandum summarizes progress under the
program.  It concludes that progress in most areas of the program has been
satisfactory.  Seven of the eight conditions for release of the second
tranche have been met. The condition relating to maize meal pricing can no
longer be achieved because it was written in terms of containing the 1991
cost of maize-related subsidies below a specific figure long since
exceeded. However, the new Government has moved quickly and decisively in
this area. It has already increased consumer prices by over 100 percent
and has agreed to monthly increases in 1992 that will eliminate all
subsidies on breakfast meal by the end of the year and will reduce
subsidies on roller meal to 20 percent of production cost. The subsidy on
breakfast meal (the higher-cost product) has been reduced from 405 Kwacha
per 25Kg bag to 50 Kwacha as a result of the recent price increases.
Subsidies on the transport of maize and the sale of fertilizer will also be
eliminated by mid-1992. This memorandum concludes that policies now
adopted are a reasonable adaptation to current circumstances and, given the
overall progress of the program, the condition on maize subsidies should be
waived and the second tranche released. Finishing the agenda on maize
market liberalization should be included as a specific component of the
next structural adjustment credit, scheduled to be appraised in February
and presented to the Board later this fiscal year.
6.          Other donors have also maintained an interest in monitoring
prcgress on this program. Germany and Japan (through OECF) are committed
to co--financing the ERC. The German co-financing has been approved by
their Parliament and is expected to be disbursed once we have indicated we
are prepared to recommend release of this second tranche, subject to the
arrears being cleared. The Japanese co-financing is less well advanced, in
part because of the broader concerns OECF has had over the applicability of
"Trinidad Terms" to their debt. Many other donors have provided balance of
payments assistance to Zambia in support of the adjustment program,



- 13- -' 
including the UK, Sweden, Norway, the USA, the Netherlands, Canada, the EC,
Finland and the African Development Bank.
III. Proaress Under the ProQram
7.          The current reform effort began in late 1988/early 1989.  The
policies are described in two PFPs, the first of which was reviewed by the
Committee of the Whole in September 1989 and the second in March 1991.
Because of the high level of arrears to the Bank and the Fund and the
continually shifting external environment, an external financing plan was
not agreed until early in 1991. With the considerable assistance of the
donor community and from Zambia's own resources, the Bank arrears were
completely cleared and the Fund arrears were reduced to the agreed level in
March of that year. This allowed the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) to be
approvpd by the Board on March 5, 1991. An innovative "rights accumulation
program" was approved by the Fund Board in April.
8.          In general, progress under the program has been gcod in most
structural areas, but there have been serious slippages in fiscal policy,
which are being corrected in the 1992 budget, and difficulties were
experienced in adjusting maize meal and fertilizer prices fast enough to
contain the cost of Government subsidies. Progress in this area has
resumed, but the target for total subsidy cost in 1991 will not be reached.
9.          The overall program will not succeed unless macroeconomic
stability is established and maintained.  The original program called for a
reduction in the fiscal deficit (on an accrual basis, excluding grants and
interest) from 4.3% of GOP in 1990 to 0.7% in 1991. Performance in the
first quarter was good, and the IMF target for bank financing of the
deficit was met. Fiscal performance deteriorated in the second quarter,
however, in part because of the increasing cost of subsidies but also
because of lower than expected tax payments from ZCCM. Fiscal performance
continued to deteriorate in the second half of 1991 primarily because of
continued low ZCCM tax payments, crop financing to the cooperatives, and
escalating maize subsidy costs. The final primary deficit (excluding
grants) is likely to exceed 6 percent of GDP for 1991. The recent IMF
mission worked with the Government on a 1992 budget that would reduce the
deficit to 2 percent of GOP. The primary reductions in spending are in
maize and fertilizer subsidies and crop financing. The budget will also
contain some tax increases; in particular, all fringe benefits, including
the housing allowance, will be subject to income tax. As a result of their
satisfaction that macro-economic balance is being restored, IMF management
has notified Bank management that they have no objections to the Bank
releasing the second tranche of the ERC.
10.         The liberalization of foreian trade through ending of
restrictive import licensing, the closing of FEMAC, and the establishment
of the second window on an open general license (OGL) basis has been one of
the major accomplishments of the reform program. In April of this year (8
months ahead of schedule), the first and second windows were merged. The
percentage of imports available on an OGL basis has been steadily increased
to its current level of about 90 percent. We had hoped they would achieve
95 percent by mid-year, but this has not been possible because of the
shortage of donor disbursements and consequently the very low level of
reserves. The pent-up demand for the still excluded categories would not
be sustainable at this time. It was also h<,)ed that the OGL system could
be shifted from a positive to a negative list for administrative ease.
Clearly this could be done at any level of coverage. However, the
Government has decided to wait until they reach the 95-96% level currently
available in the export retention market which already uses a negative list
system. Then the OGL system can adopt the same negative list as the export
retention market. This is now expected in 1992, provided donor flows
resume. One other consequence of the nearly non-existent balance of



.\NNEX I
-14 -                       P      of 6
payments assistance over the las3t eight months of 1991 has been the
periodic accumulation of unsatisfied foreign exchange applications in the
OGL. These delays have been the direct result of a shortage of foreign
exchange due to lower than expected copper receipts and donor flows. With
the anticipated resumption of donor support, the OGL should be able to
resume timely clearance of these letters of credit.
11.         The trade regime has been liberalized in other ways as well.
No-funds import applications can now be processed by commercial banks.   A
number of exemptions from import tariffs and sales taxes were announced
with the 1991 Budget, and the structure of tariffs has been compressed by
raising the minimum and lowering the maximum rates, Progress in this area
han been steady and on schedule.
12.         Good progress has been made in the areas of parastatal reform
and privatization. The contract for the study of .1MCO (the parastatal
holding companv) has been signed, and work has started.   Terms of
reference for the study of the major parastatals (e g. PTC, ZESCO, Zambia
Airways, and Zambia Railways) have been agreed and funding arranged.
Funding has also been secured for the follow-up study of 13 of the ZIMCO
parastatals once the preliminary report of the ZIMCO study itself is
completed late this year. The announcement of sale of the first seven
parastatals appeared in the papers in late July, and 42 requests to bid
have been received. The first sales are expected in early 1992. Strategy
documents on the medium term privatization plan are being prepared for
cabinet review. This is clearly an area that the new Government will
emphasize strongly. The 1992 budget will contain a major commitment of
local resources to staff the effort. we expect rapid progress in 1992.
13.         Early emphasis in the civil service reform program has been on
eliminating "ghost workers." After a slow start in getting the personnel
inventory questionnaires completed and the necessary consultants in place,
progress has been good. The computerlzation of the payroll records and pay
system for certified daily employees has already produced considerable
savings in many ministries where payments had been done largely in cash.
Physical pay parades for the disbursement of checks to employees with
proper identification have begun, and early savings are encouraging.
Programs to reduce redundancies have not yet borne fruit and will probably
not do so until the 1992 budget when the Government hopes to achieve an
initial reduction of 10,000 employees through the elimination of
redundancies.
14.         After a slow start, good progress is also being made in
implementing the Social Action Program. Six working groups have been set
up with donor involvement to review proposals and to formulate medium-term
policy, including budget priorities for 1992. The first implementation
report has been prepared. The study of the maize coupon system was
completed, and action was taken on some of the recommendations. However,
the new Government has decided that the problems of inefficient targeting
are endemic to the coupon program, which has therefore been discontinued.
In its place, the Government is increasing budget allocations for purchase
of medical and educational materials, strengthening the administration of
the existing social action program, and providing a block grant of 1
billion Kwacha (compared to a total cost of the coupon program in 1991 of
1.2 billion Kwacha) in 1992 to augment the resources of the social welfare
program for aid to the indigent.   The micro-projects unit has been
expanded and is now being supported by the Social Recovery Credit approved
by the Board of Directors in June. This Unit will provide support to
smaller projects with significant community involvement. A household
survey was recently undertaken to establish a baseline for key social
indicators and has submitted a preliminary report.



-15-                                    ,
15.         The most serious problems have arisen in the area of maize meal
subsidies, All prices were decontrolled in 1989, except maize meal and
fertilizer prices. The previous Government periodically tried to phase out
these remaining price controls, but political pressures prevented this.
The program for 1991 called for full decontrol of maize meal prices by mid-
year unless ava lable supplies fell short of projected demand, in which
case, we were worried that a panic could push the market clearing price
well above that needed by suppliers. In the event, supplies have fallen
short, and therefore full decontrol was not expected. In that eventuality,
however, the program called for increasing the controlled price so as to
keep maize-related subsidies to the level agreed with the Fund in the 1991
budget. When that goal was set, the expectation was that the producer
price would be 500 Kwacha per 90 Kg bag, and domestic inflation would be
40%. In fact, the producer price was raised to 800 Kwacha, a move we
supported given the rapidly increasing price in contiguous countries and
the rise in (illegal) maize exports from Zambia. In addition, domestic
inflation is now expected to be nearer 100 percent in 1991. Thus the price
increases necessary to contain the subsidy bill turned out to be much
larger than expected.
16.         However, the previous Governmnent found itself unable to
increase prices at all. As a result, the new Government inherited a
rapidly escalating subsidy bill and consumer prices that were still 20
percent below the levels of June 1990 in nominal terms. After an intensive
review of the options, the Cabinet adopted a plan which has increased
consumer prices immediately (by 100 percent for roller meal and 165 percent
for breakfast meal) and which will increase prices monthly in 1992 in order
to end the subsidy on breakfast meal by end-1992 and to bring the subsidy
on roller meal to 20 percent of production cost. This final subsidy will
be phased out by mid-1993. Although these increases cannot restore the
1991 subsidy cost to the previously agreed level, it does return prices and
subsidy amounts to levels previously agreed upon and will contain the total
subsidy bill to the original PFP target of 1.9 percent of GDP in 1992.
IV.   Summary of Second Tranche Release Conditions
1 .         All of the conditions have been met in substance, except for
the limitation on maize subsidies. A listing of those conditions is
attached as Annex A. The present status of those conditions is as follows:
(a) The first quarter fiscal performance was satisfactory although
problems developed in the rest of the year that have required
extensive corrective measures for 1992. The actual figure used in
the release condition was taken from the IMF draft memorandum of
February 1. When the program was approved by the IMF Board, the
benchmark for increase of net banking credit in the first quarter had
been changed. It was stated clearly in the minutes of negotiations
that the intent of our condition was to reflect the fiscal benchmark
of the IMF program (although we would interpret their fulfillment for
our purposes). The revised benchmark was met and in fact was well
exceeded if we count the ZCCM tax check for March which was not
deposited until April 1. Met (see para. 9).
(b) The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in expanding the use
of the OGL system, covering over 90 percent of imports, other than
petroleum and fertilizer. The postponement in adopting a negative
list until OGL coverage matches that in the no-funds market is
primarily an administrative matter. Given the shortage of donor
funds and hence the absence of a reserve cushion, they have expanded
this list as quickly as has been prudent. Met (see para. 10).



ANNEX I
-16 -                         Page b *f 6
(c) All export bans have been removed except white maize and maize
products, petroleum, fertilizer, and ivory, and no new import duty
exemptions have been added since January 1, 1991. Met
(d) The Borrower has adopted a satisfactory Public Investment
program and has not undertaken any significant public investment
projects outside that program. Met
(e) The Borrower has carried out a phy'sical survey of public
employees to eliminate "ghost worker's" and has also computerized
payroll records and completed the initial phase of a physical check
pick-up system. Met (see para. 13).
(f) The Borrower has offered for sale to the private sector seven
parastatals and has done preliminary work to offer five more soon.
The first sales are expected in early 1992. Met (see para. 12).
(g) The Borrower has completed, under agreed terms of reference, an
evaluation of the efficiency of the maize meal coupon system. Met
(see para. 14).
(h) The maize condition was in two parts. Complete decontrol was
not achieved, but the side letter clearly exempts the Borrower from
achieving full decontrol if supplies are not adequate, which they
were not. However, the Borrower did not contain maize subsidies
within the 1991 budget which was the second part of the condition.
(Techr cally, the condition refers only to maize handling subsidies.
The overrun on maize subsidies will come from a new subsidy given
directly to the mills. Renaming the subsidy does not change the
logic, however, since the condition refers to adjusting the price of
maize and maize meal to contain these subsidies.) Maize meal prices
have recently been increased and are scheduled to continue increasing
in 1992, but maize subsidies in 1991 will still be well above the
level specified in the 1991 budget. Not met (see paras. 15-16).
Conclusion
18.          The second tranche of the ERC should be released once arrears
are cleared even though one condition has not been fully met, because the
program is making good progress and because recent actions have brought the
subsidy removal operation back on track. The new Government has shown
strong commitment to the policies supported by the ERC and described in the
PFP and has demonstrated this by implementing early actions. We are
scheduled to bring to the Board a second adjustment credit later this year.
The completion of maize price decontrol will be handled in that operation.



- I7 -          :N  .K
C"W. ca#1i'V *AO&d" b' atUdio                          in repuY pec.u qoiw
go Ow PeFramr  SeCTWa,-
TejephooM. LUSAKA  211991, 211M1, 21 ISV,               NO
211747,                                      ND0/ i)
r               ,-9                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCDP,'/6/7/lC0
RFVPlU3C OP ZAMBIA
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY INISER
10th June, 1993        NATIONAL OOMMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
NATIONALISTiNfBilTA ROAD
Mr. Stephen Denning,                                  P.O. BOX 50268
Director                                                   LUSAKA
Southern Africa Department
The World Bank
WASHINGTON DC.
Dear Mr. Denning,
RE: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT.
I wish to inform you that the Government of Zambia
has significantly benefitted from the Second Economic Recovery
Programme, despite its interrupted history. The Credit provided a
focal point for the resumption of the economic dialoguF between the
Government of Zambia and the international donor community which
occurred during the 1990/1991 period.
Beyond this general observation, the Government has
no other comments to offer on the pertinent Project Completion
Report which states with clarity the issues and problems
encountered and addressed.
Dean N  Ag7omba, MP
Deputy  inister
Planning and Development Cooperation
Office of the President
LUSAKA.



- 19 -
PART III - Statistical Data Summary
ZAMBIA: ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
As of:        30-Jun-92
Amounts in SOR Million ---    Original          ActuaL      Disbu;sed    Cance;Led         Repaid      Outstanding
IDA Credit 22140-ZA                 149.6         149.6         149.6            0.0                       149.6
22141-ZA                 19.4          19.4           19.4           0.0         -               19.4
22142-ZA                                7.6            7.6           0.0                          7.6
OriginaL Date                  Actual Oate
Initiating Memorandum                         16-Aug-90                   16-Aug-90
Negotiations                                  01-Feb-91                   01-Feb-91
Letter of Development Policy                  01-Feb-91                   01-Feb-91
Board Approval                                05-Mar-91                   05-Mar-91
Credit Agreement                              13-Mar-91                    13-Mar-91
Effectiveness                                 13-Mar-91                    13-Mar-91
Second Tranche Release                        30-Aug-91                   31-Jan-92
Credit Closing                                30-Jun-92                   30-Jun-92
ACTUAL CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(SOR Million)
FY91          FY92          FY93
C22140-ZA                              92.6         149.6
X of total                     62X           100X
C22141-ZA                              19.4
X of total                     100%
C22142-ZA                                  -          6.9            7.6
X of total                                    90%          100%
MISSION DATES
No. of        No. of        Staff        Date of
Month/Year      Weeks        Persons         Weeks         Report
Appraisal                                        Aug-90              2             8             16    19-Sep-90
Supervision I                                    Apr-91              1             2             2        n.a.
Supervision il                                   Jun-91              1             2             2        n.a.
Supervision III                                  Aug-91              1             2             2        n.a.
Supervision IV                                   Nov-91              1             2             2        n.e.
Supervision V/CompLetion                         Jan-93              1             2             2    18-Jun-93



