Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                       Agreement
                        between
            GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          for
          the Administration of Certain Funds
               to be made available by
          GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
                  in conjunction with
     Special Program of Assistance for Low Income,
               Debt-Distressed Countries
               (The Republic of Zambia)
                Date February 26, 1991
                       AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT dated as of February 26, 1991, between the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN represented by the
Swedish International Development Authority (hereinafter
referred to as SIDA) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as the Association).
     Whereas: (A) the Association intends to enter into
an agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Development
Credit Agreement) with the Republic of Zambia (hereinaf-
ter referred to as Zambia) in which the Association will
make available to Zambia a credit for an Economic
Recovery Program (hereinafter referred to as the Pro-
gram);
     (B)  SIDA wishes to make available a grant in an
amount equivalent to fifty million Swedish Kronor (SEK
50,000,000) to assist Zambia in servicing its debt to the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter referred to as the Bank);
     (C)  SIDA further wishes the Association to adminis-
Page  2
ter said funds until the debt service concerned has been
settled by Zambia, and the Association has agreed to
administer them upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
              Administration of the Funds
     Section 1.01. For the purpose of this Agreement SIDA
shall deposit in U.S. dollars an amount equivalent to SEK
50,000,000 (the Grant) into the "T" Account maintained in
the name of the Association with the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York (hereinafter referred to as the Trust
Account). The funds in the Trust Account shall be freely
exchangeable by the Association with other currencies as
may facilitate their administration hereunder.
     (b)  The Grant shall be deposited into the Trust
Account promptly after the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment. To facilitate the administration of trust fund
assets, the Association may deposit other trust fund
assets into the Trust Account.
     Section 1.02. SIDA hereby appoints the Association
as administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Associa-
tion to: (a) hold and disburse the proceeds of the Grant
thereof towards making the payments of debt service owed
by Zambia to the Bank; and (b) do any and all such acts
and things as may be necessary or appropriate to fully
accomplish the foregoing. The Association shall so apply
the proceeds of the Grant only after the Board of
Executive Directors of the Association has approved the
Development Credit Agreement for the Program.
     Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the
same care in the discharge of its functions hereunder as
it exercises with respect to the administration and
management of its own affairs and shall have no further
responsibility to Sweden in respect thereof.
     Section 1.04. The Association may invest and
reinvest the Grant in the Trust Account pending its
withdrawal pursuant to Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
The Association shall deposit any such investment income
in the Trust Account and apply it towards repaying debt
service owed by Zambia.
                      ARTICLE II
                   Records, Accounts
     Section 2.01. The Association shall: (a) maintain
separate records and ledger accounts of the Grant
withdrawn from the Trust Account; and (b) when all the
Grant has been withdrawn from the Trust Account, prepare
a financial statement duly authorized by the Associatio-
n's external auditors with respect to the Trust Account
and forward a copy to SIDA.
                      ARTICLE III
                     Consultation
     Section 3.01. SIDA and the Association shall consult
from time to time at the request of each other on all
matters arising from this Agreement and other matters of
common interest to them in fulfilling the objectives of
the Grant.
Page  3
                      ARTICLE IV
              Effectiveness, Termination
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective
upon signatures by the parties.
     Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either
party that the purposes of this Agreement cannot effec-
tively or appropriately be carried out, the arrangements
set forth herein may be terminated at the initiative of
such party on thirty days' notice in writing to the
other. Upon such termination, unless SIDA and the
Association otherwise agree, any of the Grant funds held
hereunder by the Association shall be returned to SIDA
and the Association's administration shall be considered
terminated.
     Section 4.03. The Agreement shall terminate when the
Grant amount has been withdrawn and applied by the
Association as provided in Section 1.02 of this Agree-
ment.
                       ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous
     Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by
written agreement of the parties hereto.
     Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or mail, telephone, cable,
telex or rapidfax to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
     For SIDA:
          Swedish International Development
            Authority
          S-105 25 Stockholm
          Sweden
                                   Telex:
                                     11450 SIDA STHLM
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS               197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.      248423 (RCA),
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                      82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
Page  4
names as of the day and year first above written.
               GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
               By /s/ Sven-Olof Peterson
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Stephen Denning
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
