Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
between
THE MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by 
THE MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
(The Republic of Zambia)
Dated March 13, 1991
- 5 -
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of March 13, 1991, between the MINISTER FOR 
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS (hereinafter referred to as 
the Minister) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter 
referred to as the Association).
Whereas (A) the Association intends to enter into an agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) with the 
Republic of Zambia (hereinafter referred to as Zambia) in which the 
Association will make available to Zambia a credit for an Economic 
Page  2
Recovery Program (hereinafter referred to as the Program);
(B)
the Minister wishes to make available a grant in an amount 
equivalent to Dutch Guilders 10,000,000 to assist Zambia settle its 
arrears to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(hereinafter referred to as the Bank) and the Association; 
(C)
the Minister further wishes the Association to administer 
said funds until the arrears concerned have been settled by Zambia, and 
the Association has agreed to administer them upon the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Administration of the Funds
Section 1.01. For the purpose of this Agreement the Minister shall 
deposit an amount of Dfls 10,000,000 (the Grant) into the "T" Account 
maintained in the name of the Association with De Nederlandsche Bank 
(hereinafter referred to as the Trust Account). The funds in the Trust 
Account shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with other 
currencies as may facilitate their administration hereunder.
(b)
The Grant shall be deposited into the Trust Account promptly 
after the effectiveness of this Agreement. To facilitate the 
administration of trust fund assets, the Association may deposit other 
trust fund assets into the Trust Account.
Section 1.02. The Minister hereby appoints the Association as 
administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Association to: (a) hold 
and disburse the proceeds of the Grant thereof towards making the 
payments of arrears owed by Zambia to the Bank and the Association as 
soon as possible but not later than March 31, 1991; and (b) do any and 
all such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to fully 
accomplish the foregoing. The Association shall so apply the proceeds of 
the Grant only after the Board of Executive Directors of the Association 
has approved the Development Credit Agreement for the Program.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in the 
discharge of its functions hereunder as it exercises with respect to the 
administration and management of its own affairs and shall have no 
further responsibility to the Minister in respect thereof.
Section 1.04. The Association may invest and reinvest the Grant in 
the Trust Account pending its withdrawal pursuant to Section 1.02 of 
this Agreement, and may retain for its own account the income from such 
investment or reinvestment to assist in the defrayal of the costs of 
administration of the Grant.
ARTICLE II
Records, Accounts
Section 2.01. The Association shall: (a) maintain separate records 
and ledger accounts of the Grant withdrawn from the Trust Account; and 
(b) when all the Grant has been withdrawn from the Trust Account, 
prepare a financial statement duly authorized by the Association's 
external auditors with respect to the Trust Account and forward a copy 
to the Minister.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Consultation
Section 3.01. (a) The Minister and the Association shall consult 
from time to time at the request of each other on all matters arising 
from this Agreement and other matters of common interest to them in 
fulfilling the objectives of the Grant.
(b)
If disbursement of the Grant as provided in Section 1.02 of 
this Agreement does not take place on or before March 31, 1991 the 
Minister and the Association shall consult each other on the further 
disposition of the Grant.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon 
signatures by the parties.
Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the 
purposes of this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately be 
carried out, the arrangements set forth herein may be terminated at the 
initiative of such party on thirty days' notice in writing to the other. 
Upon such termination, unless the Minister and the Association otherwise 
agree, any of the Grant funds held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to the Minister and the Association's administration shall be 
considered terminated.
Section 4.03. The Agreement shall terminate when the Grant amount 
has been withdrawn and applied by the Association as provided in Section 
1.02 of this Agreement or has been otherwise disposed as provided in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written 
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or mail, telephone, cable, telex or rapidfax to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  5
For the Minister:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Bezuidenhoutseweg 67
P.O. Box 20061
2500 EB The Hague
Netherlands
Telex:
   31326 BuZa NL
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names as of the day and year first above written.
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE
  NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Onno Ruhl
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
