Page  1
32866 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Project Name:
 
PAKISTAN: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC II) 
Region:
 
South Asia 
 
 
 
   
Project ID: 
 
P090690 
Borrower(s):
 
Government of Pakistan 
Implementing Agency:  
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government of Pakistan 
 
Contact Person:
 
Mr. Asif Bajwa 
 
Additional Secretary 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category:
 
U (Not required) 
Date PID Prepared:
 
June 9, 2005
 
PID Revised: 
 
Projected Appraisal Date: 
July 15, 2005
 
Projected Board Date: 
 
September 6, 2005
 
1.  Country Background 
 
Pakistan
’s economic and social performance is improving. Macroeconomic balances have 
improved, economic growth has picked up, social indicators are starting to improve, and 
structural reforms are continuing to advance.  However, poverty is widespread and sustaining 
growth in the context of macroeconomic stability has proved challenging in the past.  
 
2.  Objectives and Description 
 
The PRSC 2 supports the second year of implementation of the Government of Pakistan’s 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).   
 
The proposed operation is the second annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 2) to 
support the implementation of Pakistan’s poverty reduction strategy.  This strategy is 
summarized in the Government of Pakistan’s 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), 
entitled “Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The Road Ahead”.  It 
emphasizes sustained, rapid growth as the main vehicle for poverty reduction and is grounded on 
four pillars: (i) achieving sustained high and broad-based economic growth, while maintaining 
macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving governance and consolidating devolution, both as a 
means of delivering better development results and ensuring social and economic justice; (iii) 
investing in human capital, with a renewed emphasis on effective delivery of basic social 
services; and (iv) targeting the poor and vulnerable, to bring the marginalized sections of the 
population and backward regions into the mainstream of development, and to make marked 
progress in reducing existing inequalities. 
 
Page  2
2
Pakistan’s PRSCs are  one-tranche programmatic operations to support the next phase of the 
Government of Pakistan’s medium-term reform program, laid out in the PRSP.  The PRSC 
program would monitor the key areas of the PRSP, and each credit under the PRSC program 
would be disbursed against a selected set of prior actions.   
The PRSC Reform Program 
 
The Bank supported the first phase of implementation of the PRSP with a first PRSC, which was 
approved by the Bank’s Board and disbursed in September, 2004.  The first year of the PRSC 
program overlapped with and complemented the last year of implementation of the macro 
stabilization program supported by the IMF with a PRGF, which ended in December of 2004.  
PRSC 1 was closely aligned with the PRSP’s four pillars.  Because Pakistan’s poor growth 
performance was at the root of worsening poverty in the 1990s, the PRSC program emphasizes 
policy reforms to help accelerate and sustain rapid growth.   
 
While economic growth is expected to be the main driver of poverty reduction, the PRSP for 
Pakistan also recognizes the need to strengthen Pakistan’s safety nets targeting the poorest and 
the vulnerable.  An analysis of the country’s safety nets and steps towards strengthening the 
country’s main safety net programs are being supported under the PRSC program.  The PRSP 
also emphasizes policies to accelerate progress in education and health indicators, in which 
Pakistan lags behind nearly all South Asian countries.  Because in Pakistan the responsibility for 
improving service delivery in education, health, and water and sanitation rest primarily with 
provincial and local governments, and the PRSC program focuses on those critical policy and 
institutional reforms that are in the domain of the federal government.  Subnational operations, 
such as the Punjab Education DPCs and the NWFP and Sindh DPCs support improvements in 
the delivery of these services by provincial governments. The PRSC program does support a 
public expenditure framework that prioritizes not only increased expenditures on key 
infrastructure for growth, but also a significant increase in education and health expenditures.  
 
The PRSC program also supports key steps in improving governance.  The Government of 
Pakistan is making progress in strengthening its financial management and procurement systems, 
and significant steps in this process are being supported by the PRSC program. 
 
3.  Rationale of Bank’s Involvement 
 
The Bank’s assistance to Pakistan is guided by the Bank Group’s 2002 Country Assistance 
Strategy, which was developed to support the Interim PRSP.  Since then, the Government 
completed a full PRSP; the 2004 CAS Progress Report confirms that this strategy remains valid 
in light of the full PRSP.  Lending for the balance of the CAS period reflects Pakistan’s 
continued strong overall progress in reforms and economic outcomes.  As discussed in the CAS 
Progress Report, the lending program will continue to feature a mix of policy-based, fast 
disbursing operations, programmatic sector lending, and investment projects.  Reflecting 
completion of the full PRSP and Pakistan’s strong record of reform implementation, the PRSC 
program will take the place of the series of one-tranche adjustment credits envisaged in the CAS.  
The program of provincial adjustment credits initiated in the CAS is also expected to continue, as 
these are fully aligned with achieving PRSP objectives at the provincial and local levels.  Indeed, 
delivery of key services by subnational governments is critical for attaining several of the 
Page  3
3
MDGs.  Investment lending will continue to emphasize support for high impact governance 
reforms, such as those in tax administration and financial management, and for key 
infrastructure.  IFC is expanding its presence and engagement in Pakistan.  As a result of 
Pakistan’s improved creditworthiness, IBRD financing is now increasingly possible and will 
provide Pakistan with alternative financing options to meet Pakistan’s considerable infrastructure 
needs.   
 
A
new Country Assistance Strategy is being prepared. 
 
Page  4
4
4.  Financing 
 
The IDA credit, in an amount equivalent to US$300 million, will be disbursed in one tranche 
upon effectiveness. 
 
5.  Risks and Mitigating Measures 
 
Risks include: (i) lack of sustained implementation and coordination due to capacity constraints,  
(ii) political risk; and (iii) exogenous shocks.  These risks remain relevant, but some have 
diminished somewhat as a result of the demonstrated ownership of the reform program by the 
elected government and the continuity of economic and social policies over the past 4 years.  The 
Bank is mitigating these risks by sustaining and deepening its policy dialogue, supporting 
capacity building of key government institutions, and disbursing against a set of prior actions.  
 
6.  Monitoring arrangements 
 
A
PRSP Secretariat has been established in the Ministry of Finance, Government of Pakistan for 
the overall coordination and monitoring of the reform program laid out in the PRSP.   The 
secretariat has institutionalized a mechanism for the quarterly tracking of anti-poverty 
expenditures, and in collaboration with donors and civil society, identified a set of intermediate 
and outcome indicators in Education, Health, and Population Planning sectors.  The government 
has also collected the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) household survey to 
provide yearly social sector intermediate data representative at the district level and is finalizing 
collection of a Household Income and Expenditure Survey.  Data on both surveys will be 
available during 2005. Regular supervision of the PRSC will also be carried out by the Bank in 
partnership with the Government of Pakistan.   
 
7.  Contact Points 
Ms. 
Manuela 
Ferro 
     
Lead Economist 
The World Bank 
South Asia Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C., 20433   
Telephone: 202- 473-8290 
Fax: 202-522-0356 
 
Mr. Zahid Hasnain 
Economist 
World Bank Pakistan Country Office 
South Asia Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
20-A Shahrah-e-Jamhuriyat, G-5/1 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
Telephone: (9251) 9090207 
Fax: (9251) 2279649
Page  5
5
