Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2325 
Operation Name 
PAKISTAN:  Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC II) 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (20%);General public 
administration sector (20%);Other social services (20%);Central 
government administration (20%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P090690 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Pakistan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of Pakistan 
Date PID Prepared 
June 23, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 19, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
June 22, 2006 
1.  Country Background 
 
Pakistan’s economic and social performance is improving.  Macroeconomic balances have 
improved, economic growth has picked up, social indicators are starting to improve, and 
structural reforms are continuing to advance.  However, poverty is widespread and sustaining 
growth in the context of macroeconomic stability has proved challenging in the past.  
 
2.  Operation Objectives and Description 
 
The proposed operation is the second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC II) to support the 
implementation of Pakistan’s poverty reduction strategy.  This strategy is summarized in the 
Government of Pakistan’s 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), entitled 
“Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The Road Ahead.”  It emphasizes 
sustained, rapid growth as the main vehicle for poverty reduction and is grounded on four pillars: 
(i) achieving sustained high and broad-based economic growth, while maintaining 
macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving governance and consolidating devolution, both as a 
means of delivering better development results and ensuring social and economic justice; (iii) 
investing in human capital, with a renewed emphasis on effective delivery of basic social 
services; and (iv) targeting the poor and vulnerable, to bring the marginalized sections of the 
population and backward regions into the mainstream of development, and to make marked 
progress in reducing existing inequalities.  The government is currently in the process of 
preparing a second PRSP.  This strategy is expected to draw upon outcomes and data that have 
become available since the 2003 PRSP was prepared, and also take into account developments 
on the economic front that require an adjustment in the macroeconomic framework.  A strategy 
for recovery of earthquake-affected areas is expected to be part of PRSP II. 
 
Page  2
Pakistan’s PRSCs are one-tranche programmatic operations to support the next phase of the 
Government of Pakistan’s medium-term reform program, laid out in the PRSP.  The PRSC 
program would monitor the key areas of the PRSP, and each credit under the PRSC program 
would be disbursed against a selected set of prior actions.   
The PRSC II supports selective reforms by the government that will contribute to sustain rapid 
growth
by: (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving the management and 
effectiveness of public expenditures; (iii) implementing the government’s Power Sector Action 
Plan; (iv) supporting the privatization program and improving the regulatory framework for 
competition; (v) enhancing female labor force participation and labor market flexibility; and (vi) 
improving the management of water resources.  The PRSC II will also support improved 
governance
through reforms to improve financial reporting and budget execution.  Service 
delivery of public health and education is largely a provincial and local government mandate.  
However, the proposed credit will support accelerated progress in human development
by 
(i) creating additional public resources for education and health, (ii) strengthening the health and 
education national sector policies; and (iii) piloting innovative education and health programs, 
focusing on the poor, to enhance demand for these services.  The PRSC II also supports 
improved support to the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population
,
through 
targeted programs aimed at addressing poverty and vulnerability directly. 
 
The PRSC Reform Program 
 
The Bank supported the first phase of implementation of the PRSP with a first PRSC, which was 
approved by the Bank’s Board and disbursed in September, 2004.  The first year of the PRSC 
program overlapped with and complemented the last year of implementation of the macro 
stabilization program supported by the IMF with a PRGF, which ended in December of 2004.   
PRSC I was closely aligned with the PRSP’s four pillars.  Because Pakistan’s poor growth 
performance was at the root of worsening poverty in the 1990s, the PRSC program emphasizes 
policy reforms to help accelerate and sustain rapid growth.   
 
While economic growth is expected to be the main driver of poverty reduction, the PRSP for 
Pakistan also recognizes the need to strengthen Pakistan’s safety nets targeting the poorest and 
the vulnerable.  An analysis of the country’s safety nets and steps towards strengthening the 
country’s main safety net programs are being supported under the PRSC program.  The PRSP 
also emphasizes policies to accelerate progress in education and health indicators, in which 
Pakistan lags behind nearly all South Asian countries. While in Pakistan the responsibility for 
improving service delivery in education, health, and water and sanitation rest primarily with 
provincial and local governments, the PRSC program focuses on those critical policy and 
institutional reforms that are in the domain of the federal government only.  Sub-national 
operations, such as the Punjab Education DPCs and the NWFP and Sindh DPCs support 
improvements in the delivery of these services by provincial governments. The PRSC program 
does support a public expenditure framework that prioritizes not only increased expenditures on 
key infrastructure for growth, but also a significant increase in education and health 
expenditures. The PRSC program also supports key steps in improving governance. The 
Government of Pakistan is making progress in strengthening its financial management and 
procurement systems, and significant steps in this process are being supported by the PRSC 
program. 
Page  3
3.    Rationale of Bank’s Involvement 
 
The Bank's assistance strategy to Pakistan is guided by the Bank Group’s Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on June 11, 2002.  The Bank is currently preparing a 
new CAS to cover FY06-09, which is expected to be presented to the Bank’s Board in June 
2006. The elements of the draft CAS focus on three pillars, aligned with the strategic priorities of 
the government’s PRSP: (i) sustaining growth and improving competitiveness; (ii) improving 
government effectiveness and service delivery; and (iii) improving lives and protecting the 
vulnerable.  
 
4.  Financing 
 
The IDA credit, in an amount equivalent to US$300 million, will be disbursed in one tranche 
upon effectiveness. 
 
5.  Institutional, Implementation, and Monitoring Arrangements 
 
The implementation of the PRSC’s ambitious, multi-sectoral reform program requires effective 
coordination between Government Ministries and agencies.  The PRSP Secretariat in the 
Ministry of Finance will remain the focal point for the PRSC and will oversee the 
implementation of reforms. Progress toward PRSP objectives is being supported by 
improvements in government systems to collect, analyze and disseminate data.  The Secretariat 
also collates information from various sources, identifies information and data gaps, and 
produces progress reports, based on a set of indicators agreed upon by federal and provincial 
governments as well as the international donor and domestic community.  Since PRSP’s 
completion in December 2003, the government has regularly prepared Annual and Quarterly 
PRSP Progress reports, which are available on the web.  Progress reports track and analyze pro-
poor public expenditures and their sectoral composition and provincial patterns within the 
context of the macroeconomic situation in the country.  In addition, the reports also monitor 
PRSP intermediate indicators, PRSP and social sector performance, employment, non-budgetary 
expenditures, and special programs for poverty reduction.  
 
6.  Benefits, Risks, and Mitigating Measures 
 
Benefits 
 
The PRSC’s support for the reform program is expected to contribute to sustaining rapid per 
capita growth for an extended period of time.  This, along with policy reforms and public 
investments to increase the poor’s participation in economic growth, is expected to contribute to 
the reduction in poverty incidence. 
 
Risks and Mitigation  
 
(i) 
Risks to the fiscal outlook due to expenditure pressures resulting from the October 8, 
2005 earthquake and to external balances due to a rising trade imbalance. 
Page  4
(ii) 
Implementation risks stemming from technical and institutional capacity constraints. 
Weaknesses in implementation capacity and institutional coordination are expected to 
decline as institutions are strengthened and local capacity is built. 
(iii) 
Risks of exogenous shocks and natural disasters. The Bank is working with the 
government to strengthen hazard risk management and capacity to minimize exposure to 
exogenous shocks and natural disasters. 
(iv) 
Political and security risks.  
 
The Bank is mitigating some of these risks by sustaining and deepening its policy dialogue, 
supporting reforms and capacity building of key government institutions.  While implementation 
delays could arise, the Bank’s program mitigates against this risk by disbursing against an agreed 
set of prior actions.   
 
While overall risks to the operation remain relevant, they have diminished as a result of a 
demonstrated ownership of the PRSP’s reform program by the elected government and the 
continuity of economic and social policies over the past five years. 
 
7.  Environment Aspects 
 
The specific country policies proposed in the proposed PRSC II are unlikely to cause significant 
environmental impact.  It is possible, however, that the indirect effects of these policies will 
generate environmental benefits by promoting economic diversification and a less resource-
intensive economic structure.  
 
8.  Contact Points 
 
Ms. 
Manuela 
Ferro 
     
Lead Economist 
The World Bank 
South Asia Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C., 20433   
Telephone: 202-473-8290 
Fax: 202-522-0356 
 
Mr. Zahid Hasnain 
Economist 
World Bank Pakistan Country Office 
South Asia Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
20-A Shahrah-e-Jamhuriyat, Ramna 5 
G-5/1 Islamabad 
Pakistan 
Telephone: (92-51) 2279641-6 
Fax: (92-51) 2279649 
 
Page  5
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
