Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4301 A-PAK 
CREDIT NUMBER 4302 B-PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 22, 2007 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4301 A-PAK 
CREDIT NUMBER 4302 B-PAK 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 22, 2007, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF PAKISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has 
decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the 
Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the Association, therefore, hereby 
agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in two portions in the following 
amounts: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to one hundred eight million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 108,000,000) (“Portion A of the Credit”); and  
(b) 
an amount equivalent to one hundred twenty five million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 125,200,000) (“Portion B of the 
Credit”)  
(Portion A of the Credit and Portion B of the Credit collectively referred to as the 
“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the amount of Portion A of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to four 
percent (4%) per annum. Such interest shall accrue from the respective dates on 
which amounts of Portion A of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable 
semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Such interest shall be computed 
on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary to the Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Statistics. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 Islamabad, 
Pakistan 
 
Telephone  
Facsimile 
 
92-51 9210629   
92-51 9210734   
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at the Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Credit Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
In order to improve the efficiency of direct tax collections, the Recipient has 
established a large tax payers unit in Lahore and medium taxpayer units in 
Karachi, Peshawar and Rawalpindi. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has announced and implemented tariffs for Unbundled WAPDA 
Distribution Companies. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has brought to a point of sale the following companies:  
(a) National Refinery Limited; (b) Karachi Electric Supply Corporation; and  
(c) Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation Limited. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has enacted legislation amending existing labor legislation to 
improve labor market flexibility, reduce compliance costs for businesses and 
increase female labor force participation.  
 
5. 
The Recipient has: (i) adopted and implemented a gas pricing framework which 
provides for the periodical adjustments of gas wellhead and consumer prices; and  
(ii) notified through the official gazette a reduction of the household sector first 
lifeline slab from 100 m
3
to 50 m
3
.
6. 
The Recipient has included its Ministries of Education, Food, Agriculture and 
Livestock, and Women Development, in its medium term budgetary framework 
(MBTF) for the Fiscal Year 2006/2007 budget.  
 
7. 
In order to enhance accountability and transparency in accounting and auditing, 
the Recipient has: (a) developed and adopted a cash flow statement in a format 
consistent with IPSAS 2; and (b) established an electronically integrated link 
between MoF’s budget module and CGA’s payments processing and accounting 
module.  
 
8. 
In order to improve access to, and the quality of, education services, the 
Recipient’s consolidated education expenditures for Fiscal Year 2005/2006 were 
consistent with the nominal targets set forth in the PRSP. 
 
9. 
In order to improve the quality of teaching in primary schools, the Recipient has 
raised the entry qualifications for primary school teachers at the federal level to 
Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Sciences degree level. 
Page  7
-
6
-
10. 
The Recipient has designed and launched a pilot conditional cash 
transfer/voucher scheme to increase school attendance in areas of low school 
enrollment. 
 
11. 
In order to improve health monitoring, the Recipient has approved the National 
Action Plan for Integrated Disease Surveillance.  
 
12. 
The Recipient has designed and launched a pilot conditional cash 
transfer/voucher scheme to increase TB (tuberculosis) daily observation therapy 
sessions (DOTS) coverage. 
 
13. 
The Recipient has: (i) made budgetary allocations for the Food Support Program 
in Fiscal Year 2006/2007 in the amount of four billion three hundred and eighty 
million Pakistani rupees (Rs. 4,380,000,000); and (ii) designed and launched a 
pilot conditional cash transfer scheme to for chronically poor households (the 
Child Support Program) in a total of five districts, one each, in Punjab, Sindh, 
NWFP, Balochistan and AJK.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Credit Proceeds
A.
 General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B.
 
Allocation of Credit Amounts.
 
The total amount of the Credit shall be 
withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to 
this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocation 
Amount of Portion A of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR)
 
Amount of Portion B of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
108,000,000 
125,200,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
108,000,000 125,200,000 
C.
 
Deposits of Credit Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
i
nto this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Credit shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was used to make a payment 
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2008. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of 
Portion A of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a 
percentage)* 
Principal Amount of 
Portion B of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a 
percentage)* 
On each March 15 and 
September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 
2017 to and including March 15, 
2027 
1.25% 1.25% 
commencing September 15 
2027 to and including March 15, 
2042 
2.50% 2.50% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AJK” means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir. 
 
2. 
“Balochistan” means the Province of Balochistan. 
 
3. 
“CGA” means the Recipient’s office of the Controller General of Accounts. 
 
4. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account (as hereinafter defined). 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Credit proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning on July 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next following calendar year. 
 
7. 
“Food Support Program” means a social safety net program launched in  
August 2000 by the Recipient, designed to supplement the weak purchasing 
power of the poorest of the poor segment of society in Pakistan. 
Page  12
-
11
-
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. 
“IPSAS 2” means the International Public Sector Accounting Standard issued by 
the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).  
 
10. 
“Karachi” means a city located within the Province of Sindh. 
 
11. 
“Karachi Electric Supply Corporation” means the electric utility established and 
operating as a public limited company under the laws of Pakistan, registration 
number 376/19130907, dated September 13, 1913, for the generation, 
transmission and distribution of electric power in Karachi. 
 
12. 
“MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
13. 
“National Action Plan for Integrated Disease Surveillance” means the 
Recipient’s plan dated May 4, 2006, that sets out the actions taken or to be taken 
to strengthen its public health surveillance system. 
 
14. 
“National Refinery Limited” means the oil utility established and operating as a 
public limited company under the laws of Pakistan, registration number 
1463/19630807, dated August 19, 1963, for the petroleum refining and the 
productions of petrochemical derivatives. 
 
15. 
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province. 
 
16.  “Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation Limited” means the 
telecommunication utility established and operating as a public limited company 
under the laws of Pakistan, registration number I-01886/19951201, dated 
December 31, 1995, for the provision of telecommunication services throughout 
the country. 
 
17. 
“Peshawar” means a city located within the Recipient’s North West Frontier 
Province. 
 
18. 
“Portion A of the Credit” means the portion of the Credit specified in  
Section 2.01(a) of this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Portion B of the Credit” means the portion of the Credit specified in  
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“PRSP” means the Recipients 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
21. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty as set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 4, 2007, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
22. 
“Punjab” means the Province of Punjab. 
 
23. 
“Rawalpindi” means a city located within the Recipient’s province of Punjab. 
 
24. 
“Sindh” means the Province of Sindh, a political subdivision of the Recipient.  
 
25. 
“Unbundled WAPDA Distribution Companies” means, collectively: 
 
(i) Faisalabad Electric Supply Company (FESCO), registration number 
 
L-09460/19980302; (ii) Gujranwala Electric Power Company (GEPCO), 
registration number L-09498/19980402; (iii) Hyderabad Electric Supply 
Company (HESCO), registration number L-09496/19980402; (iv) Islamabad 
Electric Supply Company (IESCO), registration number L-09499/19980402;  
(v) Lahore Electric Supply Company (LESCO), registration number 
 
L-09415/19980202; Multan Electric Power Company (MEPCO), registration 
number L-09522/19980502; Quetta Electric Supply Company (QESCO), 
registration number L-09520/19980502; and Peshawar Electric Supply Company 
(PESCO), registration number L-09497/19980402, all of them electricity utilities 
established and operating as public limited companies under the laws of Pakistan. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  14
-
13
-
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Credit until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Credit is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The definition of “Financing Payment” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Financing Payment’ means any amount payable by the Recipient to the 
Association pursuant to the Financing Agreement or these General 
Conditions, including (but not limited) any amount of the Withdrawn 
Credit Balance, the Service Charge, interest and the Commitment 
Charge.” 
Page  15
-
14
-
(d) 
The definition of “Payment Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Payment Date’ means each date specified in the Financing Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Financing Agreement on which 
Service Charges, interest and Commitment Charges are payable.” 
 
(e) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Credit is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
