Report No. 366a-ME
Mexico: Appraisal of an
Airports Development
Project
May 28, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean
Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                 a Peso (Ps)
US$1.00                      -  Ps 12.5
Ps 1                          -  US$0.08
Ps 1 million                 -  US$80,0
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                       British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         -  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASA     -     Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares
DGA     -     Direccion General de Aeropuertos
DGAC    -     Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil
DIGAS   -     Distribuidora de Gasolina, S.A.
DME     -     Distance Measuring Equipment
GNP     -     Gross National Product
ICAO    -     International Civil Aviation Organization
IDB     -     Inter-American Development Bank
NACOA   -     Nacional de Combustibles de Aviacion
NAP     -     National Airport Plan
PEMEx   -     Petroleos Mexicanos
RANSA   -     Radio Aeronautica Mexicana, S.A.
SCT     -     Sbecretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
SOP     -     Secretaria de Obras Publicas
VOR     -     Very high frequency Omnidirectional Radio range



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSi.ONS ........................    i - Ui
1.   INTRODUCTION .................,... 1.........     ..*.....        2
2.   BACKGROUND                                                        2
A.   General       ....     ...2........                          2
B.   The Transportation Sector           .........                2
C.   Transportation Policy and Coordination                      3
3.   MEXICAN AVIATION .................................. .             4
A.   National Airport Plan....... . .....                        4
B.   Airlines .       .4
C.   Traffic Forecasts                                           5
D.   Aviation Administration                                      7
4.   THE PROJECT . ....... ......                                      9
A.   Description of the Project   ......... ........              9
B.   Special Provisions of the Project ................           9
C.   Technical Assistance ...                                    10
D.   Ecology .......*....                                        10
E.   Design and Supervision                                      10
F.   Cost Estimate ...........10
C.   Construction Employment .....11
H.   Procurement .....................                           12
I.   Disbursement .        .12
J.   Execution of the Project ............                       13
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .......           ..........                13
A.   General .                                                   1 3
B.   Economic Analysis..................                         14
C.   Project Airports   .      ... . ........15
D.   Total Project Return ..............16
E.   Air Route Analysis      .       ............16
F.   Additional Advantages .....17
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Zetterstrom (aviation
engineer), Bostrom (aviation economist), Chapman (financial analyst), Parker
(financial analyst), Skocz (financial consultant) and Ms Foster (editor).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ........................                  17
A.   Existing Situation of ASA ........................        17
B.   User Charges and Financial Objectives ......O......       19
C.   Income and Expenditure Projections ...0.....0....         20
D.   Financing Plan .........  .    .     ...........   . .  ... .  22
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    -.................    23
TABLES
1.   Anmual Departing and Arriving Passengers
2.   Aircraft Traffic Development
3.   Detailed Cost Estimates (excluding Land) and Project Investment
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Economic Return (Sensitivity Analysis)
6.   Summary Revenue and Expenditure Accounts, 1965-1973
7.   Summary Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1965-1973 (Audited)
8.   Cash Flow, 1968-1973 (for ASA as a whole)
9.   Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Campeche)
10.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Guaymas)
11.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Los Mochis)
12.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Minatitlan)
13.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Poza Rica)
14.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Tapachula)
15.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Tuxtla Gutierrez)
16.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Villahermosa)
17.  Summary Operating Accounts, 1971-1985 (Total Project Airports)
18.  Summary Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1972-1985, ASA
19.  Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1972-1985, ASA
20.  Projected Cash Flow, 1972-1985, ASA
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Participation in the Transportation Sector
2.   Aircraft Equipment for Mexican Airlines
3.   Transportation Coordination Committee - Participants
4.   Organization Chart of ASA and List of Airports
Presently Operated by ASA
5.   Description of the Project
6.   Economic Background of Individual Airports
7.   Landing Fees at Class 4(a), 5(a) and 6(a) Airports
8.   Financial Position, ASA
9.   Notes Regarding Current Landing Fees.
10.  Calculation Assumptions for Forecast Revenues and Expenses
MAPS
1.   10803 - Project Airport Locations
2.   10804 - Typical Airport Layout Plan



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORTS ])EVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Ilexico is a country of widely dispersed low growth communities plus
some rapidly growing urban centers, primarily Mexico City. To help draw the
country together and promote a more even urban development, the Government
is attempting to create a dependable air transportation system at a reasonable
cost to the users. The two major Mexican airlines have been encouraged in their
attempts to acquire more efficient aircraft, and a national system of airports
and airways has been planned to accommodate them. Several of the larger
airports have already been reconstructed, and the proposed project would
continue this process of upgrading airport facilities. During the last
decade, aviation has been one of the fastest growing modes for passenger
travel. The appraisal is based primarily on the work of the Secretaria de
Obras Publicas (SOP), which will perform the engineering and construction
supervision for all but the navigational aids (to be conducted by the Secre-
taria de Communicaciones y Transportes, SCT).
ii.       This will be the eleventh Bank transportation project in Mexico,
and, not counting an airport being provided as infrastructure for the
Zihuatanejo Tourism Project (793-ME), it will be the first aviation project.
It will consist of the construction of seven new regional airports and the
expansion of one existing regional airport, and will include runways; air-
craft aprons; terminal, fire and control buildings; fueling systems and
visual and navigational aids. Additionally, accounting consultants will be
engaged to assist the airport operators, Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares
(ASA), in establishing a modern cost accounting system.
iii.      The project will allow the airlines to utilize their more efficient
aircraft along the affected routes and will enable traffic at the project
airports to grow in an unrestrained manner. It will also assist in strength-
ening the operating organization so that it will be capable of efficient and
cost-conscious operation of the entire Mexican airport system.
iv.       The energy crisis took place in the middle of the preparation of
this report, and its potential impact on the project has been reviewed. The
effects of the recent world-wide fuel shortages and price increases are not
expected to change the various project rates of return significantly because
of the conservative methodology used.
v.        Of the total project cost, estimated at US$59.3 million equivalent,
US$21.0 million of the proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of approximately 35% of total project costs. A further US$4.0
million is provided to finance interest during construction, totaling US$25.0
million in all. The loan would be to Nacional Financiera, S.A. The Government
would provide the local cost component.



'Ji.      At the present time, ASA is financially viable, primarily because
it provides only a reduced share of its capital investments. With the
completion of the project and the introduction of full cost accounting, ASA
is a whole will still be viable, but, in the early years of operation, the
project airports will be able to pay only for their operating expenses. This
situation will be improved with the introduction of higher user charges,
%lhich will also assist ASA in contributing substantially to future investment.
vii.      The main benefits of the project derive from Cost savings to the
>exican airlines through the use of better aircraft and a safer, faster and
?,ore reliable service to the traveling public. Valuable land occupied by the
existing airports will be released for better usage. In addition, there are
unquantifiable benefits such as increased reliability of flights, improved
air safety, expanded tourism and better regional integration of the country.
The economic rates of return for the individual project airports, exclusive
of passenger time savings, range from 11% to' 30% while, for the project as
a whole, the rate of return is 22%. If passsnger time savings are added,
the rate of return for the project rises to 29%. If land values are excluded,
the overall project return is 16% based on aircraft cost savings alone.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a loan to Nacional Financiera,
S.A. in the amount of US$25.0 million for a term of 24 years, including a
four-year grace period.



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested the Bank to help finance
a project consisting of the construction of seven new regional airports
and the expansion of one existing regional airport.
1.02      This will be the first Bank aviation project in Mexico, although
one airport was financed as part of the Zihuatanejo Tourism Project (793-ME,
US$22.0 million). Annex 1 gives details of previous Bank projects in the
transportation sector (highways, railways and ports); the total amount of
the loans is US$422.8 million. Implementation of the Bank-financed projects
has been generally satisfactory. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
has also assisted in the development of the Mexican transportation system
through eight loans totaling US$181.0 million: five for feeder roads
(US$101.0 million), one for federal highways (US$33.5 million), one for the
purchase of maintenance equipnient (US$25.0 million) and one for construction
of an airport as part of a totrism project (US$21.5 million).
1.03      This project is part of the Government's continuing attempt to
upgrade the airports serving the various regions of the country. The existing
airports in the project have short runways with aeronautical obstructions
which limit aircraft size and require higher than normal meteorological
operational minimums, causing flight delays or cancellations.  The project
will enable the domestic airlines to improve schedule reliability and to
utilize larger, more efficient aircraft, resulting in better and, in the
long run, cheaper service to the traveling public.
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$59.3 million, of
which US$21.0 million (42% of the construction costs and about 35% of the
total costs) is the foreign exchange component, and, together with interest
during construction of US$4.0 million, makes US$25.0 million the amount of
the proposed loan.
1.05      This report is based on the technical and economic studies prepared
by the Secretaria de Obras Publicas (SOP) and on the findings of the appraisal
mission, comprising Messrs. Zetterstrom (aviation engineer), Bostrom (aviation
economist), Chapman (financial analyst), Parker (financial analyst) and Skocz
(financial consultant), which visited Mexico in October 1973. The report has
been edited by Ms Foster.



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A.  General
2
2.01      Mexico covers an area of nearly 2 million km . Much of the country
cs sparsely populated because of its difficult topography and inadequate
rainfall, and, although extensive schemes for agricultural development have
increased the areas under irrigation, the population is urbanizing rapidly -
a matter of concern to the Government. Close to 60% of the population of
34 million is now urban; this proportion was 52% in 1960 and 43% in 1950. In
1972, about 18% of Mexico's population lived in the district centered by
Mexico City.
2.02      Although overall population growth has been 3.5Z per annum since
1960 - one of the highest rates in the world - urban population growth was
higher than 5% per annum, while rural growth was only about 1.5% per annum.
2.03      Since 1960, the growth rate of the Mexican gross national product
(GNP) has been about 6.7% per annum, one of the highest in Latin America.
GNP per capita was estimated to be US$744 for 1972.
B.   The Transportation Sector
2.04      The Mexican transportation sector in its inception was designed
primarily to link, by road and rail, the major seaports with the industrial and
urban centers of the interior; secondly, an intricate network of roads and
railways was constructed within the central plateau to link Mexico City with
the main surrounding centers; and, finally, road, rail and air connections
were provided for foreign trade with the USA through a dozen border points
along the frontier and international airports within the country. Most of
the major towns and cities also have domestic airports. As a result, Mexico
has a comprehensive transportation infrastructure, with seaport facilities
to complement the other modes. The highway network has about 46,000 km of
paved roads, the rail network has about 25,000 km and the domestic air system
covers about 48,000 km.
(i) Freight Traffic
2.05      The main traffic flows for agricultural products are located between
the northeastern and northwestern principal centers of production, the main
cities and the US border. The raw materials move from all over the country
to the industrial centers of Monterrey, San Luis Potosi, Guadalajara and
Mexico City, where finished industrial products originate, in turn, and are
destined for local consumption or for export, mainly to the USA. Although
the railways have a clear-cut advantage over road transportation for the
carriage of bulk over medium and long distances, road transportation is
carrying about half o- international transportation and a much more substantial
part of national transportation. Seaports account for less than half of the
total import/export trade of Mexico, although they are very important for
coastal trad2. Recently, the construction of several new seaports has been
started, including Madero on the Pacific coast at the sputherDDpst point of



-3.
Mexico near Tapachula. The potential for air transportation of high value/
perishable goods is just beginning to emerge.
(ii) Passenger Traffic
2.06      Although short and medium distance passenger travel is almost
completely monopolized by road transportation, rail and air transport are
important for distances over 200 km.  While the overall growth of the
transport fleet has been about 9% per annum, a comparison of fleet vehicle
type growth with fuel type usage would indicate that private automobile
utilization has not been keeping pace with the automobile fleet's growth,
but that the utilization of larger vehicles has increased. Over the last
twelve years, there has been a rapid growth in air traffic, but little or
no growth in rail passenger traffic, with the result that these two systems
are now about equal in terms of pass-km (4.5 billion/yr).
C.   Transportation Policy and Coordination
2.07      Three Secretariats are directly involved in transportation policy
and planning: SOP, SCT and the Secretaria de la Presidencia. SOP is
responsible for subsector planning and project preparation and construction
of the transportation infrastructure, except for ports and pipelines. It is
also responsible for maintaining the road network and paving of airports.
It deals directly with the Presidencia and has very few official contacts
with SCT. SCT regulates the operation of the systems by fixing tariffs,
granting licenses, etc. SCT also deals directly with the Presidencia, which
approves all transportation investment and is also involved in other important
transportation matters.
2.08      These three Secretariats have recognized the lack of transportation
coordination and have elaborated proposals to coordinate and program the
transportation sector. During negotiations for the Second Railway Project
(Loan 825-ME), the Government agreed to strengthen the Planning Department of
SCT, and a new structure for this Department has recently been introduced.
The new organization will have a much larger staff than the present one, and,
with the help of external consultants, SCT will prepare a long-term transpor-
tation program. The proposed new structure has been reviewed by the Bank and
judged acceptable. In 1973, a Transportation Coordination Committee respon-
sible for planning and coordinating investments, including all the entities
dealing with transportation, was created uhder the Presidencia.
2.09      Since 1965, about 23% of total public investment has been devoted
to the transportation sector, about 31% of which has been financed by internal
credits and 20% by international credits. Of the total investment, 56% has
been devoted to roads, 26% to railways and 18% to other transportation modes.
2.10      All infrastructure investments for roads, railways and airports
are directly programmed and carried out by SOP, which has juzL updated a
six-year investment program for 1971-1976. The revised program for the last



-4-
four years (1973-1976) totals 36.8 billion pesos (about US$2.9 billion), of
which 7.1% is for railways, 86.0% for highways and related rural development
tnvestment and 6.9% for airports.
3. MEXICAN AVIATION
3.01      The Government's aviation policy is based on the premise that air
transportation plays an important role in national development. Domestic
aviation has been one of the fastest growing transportation modes. The
Government is attempting to use aviation to encourage a more even urban devel-
opment. It is felt that, by creating a dependable air transportation system
at a reasonable cost to the users, the widely dispersed communities of the
nation will be drawn closer together and assisted in their development. An
easy mode of travel to the larger population and trade centers is part of the
development process, which has previously been limited mainly to Mexico City
and a few other large cities (paras 2.01 and 2.02). Aviation will also
sustain a growth of freight traffic of perishable goods and help divert
Mexican tourists from other countries.
A.   National Airport Plan
3.02      A National Airport Plan (NAP) was developed in 1964 by a Government-
wide committee which provided for a total of 75 airports in Mexico, 37 of
which are managed by ASA (para 3.20). Nine of these airports, catering to
long range aircraft, have already been completed, while two more are under
construction; 22 others are for medium range aircraft and the rest are for
short range. Except for those already improved (about 20), the existing
facilities are substandard for the types of aircraft now being added to the
air carrier fleets. The NAP envisages improving all of these facilities to
meet present and future demands and includes lengthening and strengthening
of runways, taxiways and aprons; constructing or enlarging terminal, fire and
air traffic control buildings; providing navigational aids (navaids) and
communication equipment and providing improved utilities and fueling systems
(see Map 10803 for project and other airport locations).
3.03      The eight airports under consideration for this project presently
exist but are unsuitable for modern air carrier aircraft. Either the runways
are too short, the pavements are too weak, the flight paths lie directly over
heavily populated areas, terrain or man-made obstructions to flight exist,
or combinations of all of these factors are present at each airport. With
one exception, the existing sites cannot be improved to alleviate these
deficiencies, and the airports must be relocated (see Map 10804 for typical
airport layout plan).
B.   Airlines
3.04      In recent years, air transportation has become increasingly
important for passenger traffic. The two principal Mexican airlines -



-5-
Aeromexico, nominally the international carrier (100% Government ownership),
and Mexicana de Aviacion, the domestic carrier (10% Government ownership) -
jointly increased the number of domestic pass-km from 1.0 billion to 4.5
billion between 1962 and 1972. Freight transportation is not yet a major
factor (about 40,000 tons/year), but several areas of the country have a
good potential, especially the northwest perishable vegetable producing
areas and the southeast shrimp and fish producing areas. The heavy industrial
areas are also potential air freight producers.
3.05      As traffic developed, the two airlines were able to think in terms
of larger, more efficient and more productive aircraft. Aeromexico began to
substitute Douglas DC-9 aircraft for older or smaller aircraft such as the
DC-6 or the Hawker Siddley 748. It presently has six DC-9's on order for
delivery in 1974, making a total of 16 DC-9's for its domestic fleet. It has
also ordered two DC-10's with a 1975 delivery for its international routes.
3.06      Mexicana is also upgrading its fleet by substituting Boeing 727
aircraft for its Douglas DC-6's. Given the same frequencies, this substitution
more than doubles the airline's capacity and would completely remove any
restraints to traffic growth if Mexicana could use the new aircraft through-
out its route system. Mexicana is expecting delivery of three more B-727's
in 1974, making a total of 19 for use in its domestic and close-by inter-
national route system (see Annex 2 for the total fleet makeup of both airlines
and comparative operating costs).
3.07      In addition to the principal carriers, there are eight small feeder
airlines (alimentadores) operating in specific regions of the country; some
of these are affiliated with Aeromexico. They generally operate with smaller
aircraft such as Douglas DC-3's and de Havilland DHC-6 Twin Otters. Non-
scheduled airlines of the air taxi category abound, as do privately owned,
small, general aviation aircraft. Government (non-military), semi-Government
and corporate aircraft add many pass-km to the totals reported by the
scheduled airlines and reflect the importance of aviation to the activities
of such organizations.
C.   Traffic Forecasts
3.08      Domestic air traffic has grown very rapidly in Mexico over the
past few years, partly as a result of improved air services. The passenger
traffic forecasts, prepared primarily by SOP, Direccion de Programacico,
therefore took two factors into account: (a) the general traffic trend
based on such factors as future population and income growth and (b) the
additional growth as a result of service improvements at the individual
project airports. For the latter purpose, an analysis was made of previous
traffic development at other airports after the introduction of jet service.
The forecasts were developed up to 1985 and correlated against air traffic
forecasts made by other entities such as SCT and the two airlines.
(i) Passenger Forecast
3.09      The SOP passenger forecast growth rates were used as given or
modified to reflect lower airline projections. Until airport completion,



-6-
the growth was generally based on the current traffic trend after using the
,3o0t recent traffic data (1972-1973). This methodology was also used for
Lransit traffic at project airports not generated by other project airports.
The actual average growth rate has been about 17% per year. The forecast
.owers this to about 11% by 1985 (Table 1).
(ii) Cargo Forecast
t.10      Since cargo at the project airports is comparatively minor, no
epecial air cargo forecasts were made. There are, however, two exceptions
vwhere more positive development is likely to become an important factor, i.e.,
Los Mochis and Campeche. Since these shipments would need a fairly long time
to develop, any impact on aircraft movements has not been included.
(iii) Aircraft Movements
3.11      Aircraft movement forecasts were primarily developed by SOP,
Direccion de Aeropuertos. The commercially important part of the movements
was revised to be in line with the passenger forecasts. For other parts of
the traffic , the forecasts were correlated against projections made :,y SCT
for air traffic control purposes and are considered reasonable. The iActual
and forecast traffic is shown in Table 2.
(iv) Possible Effects of Fuel Shortages and Higher Fuel Prices
3.12      The basic aircraft movement forecasts were made prior to the current
world-wide energy restrictions which occurred after the appraisal mission.
The forecasts were modified as indicated above. One element of a fairly
conservative approach for aircraft forecasts was the continued use of current
relatively high load factors, due to the fact that both Aeronexico and
Mexicana have had a recent shortage of aircraft which will be remedied when
new aircraft are delivered in 1974. The other element concerns the avail-
ability of fuel in Mexico. It is obviously very early to assess all aspects
of possible fuel limitations. Regarding the fuel supply, Mexico obtains 92%
of its requirements from the Government oil company, PEMEX. Proven oil
reserves are also high, but development of these has been lacking; this means
that, in the short term, a rather high proportion of the increased demand
will be met by imports at higher prices. It is therefore likely that aviation
fuel cost, which in 1972 was about 13% of the total costs of the two Mexican
airlines, will rise substantially.
3.13      The effects of fuel prices on the traffic forecasts are complicated.
At the existing cost of fuel, a rise in load factor of 10 points, as from
50% to 60%, could accommodate a 100% rise in fuel costs without affecting
the profitability of the airline because, in the past, the fuel component of
airline costs has been a relatively small factor. Apart from fewer flights,
the fuel problem is not likely to affect traffic seriously. If fuel does
become short, it will affect the surface transportation of individual units
long before it will affect mass transportation in the air. The use of private
automobiles, for instance, would decrease, and trips that normally were taken
by automobile would be diverted to the mass forms of transportation. This has
already occurred within the United States system. If air passenger traffic



-7-
increases for this reason, there would be less of a tendency for the airlines
to decrease their number of flights. This, in turn, would mean that the
financial projections would not be affected adversely.
3.14      An increase in fuel price does not distort the relative costs for
different aircraft for domestic services and therefore leaves the economic
justification unaffected, apart from traffic growth. Increased airline
tariffs, such as the 7-12% increases in January 1974, due to inflation, are
also less likely to change the relative competitiveness of aviation compared
to the other modes of transport. Any further modification of the traffic
forecasts has therefore not been considered necessary at this time, since
the positive aspects mentioned above are likely to compensate for the negative
influences of the fuel restrictions.
D.  Aviation Administration
3.15      Theoretically, the administration and operation of aviation in
Mexico is the responsibility of the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y T ens-
portes (SCT), but, in practice, it falls under four organizations which, in
the past, had little or no inter-agency coordination. The Direccion General
de Aeronautica Civil (DGAC), within SCT, is in charge of establishing air
routes And procedures, licensing, negotiating bilateral air agreements and
other policy-type matters; it also provides air traffic control services at
some of the smaller airports.  The design and supervision of construction of
airports and their buildings are the responsibility of the Direccion General
de Aeropuortos (DGA) of SOP. After construction, the maintenance of the
airfield operational surfaces (runways, taxiways, aprons, drainage, etc.) is
the responsibility of SOP. The responsibility for the operation and main-
tenance of the terminal buildings, maintenance of the field llghting and
collection of landing and rental charges at 37 airports is that of Aeropuertos
y Sorvtcios Auxiltares (ASA), an autonomous Government agency which reports
directly to the Secrotaria de la Presidencia.
3.16      Radio Aeronautics Mexicana, S.A. (RAMSA) is responsible for the
operation and MAintenance of the navaids, communication gear and RANSA's
operational areas (control towers, etc.) and is in complete control of
enroute air traffic and most terminal traffic. RAMSA reports to scr but is
a private corporation which is partly owned by the Government and the
airlineo serving Mexico. An assurance was given during negotiations that
the Government will continue to make provisions for air traffic control and
aeronautical communications throughout the country.
3.17      Two additional organizations operate the fuel systems on a concession
fee basis after they have been built by SOP, Nacional de Combustibles de
Aviacion (NACOA) and Distribuidora de Gasolina, S.A. (DIGAS). They are both
mixed economy companies which operate under very exacting standards to meet
airline specifications.  Since the fuel being processed for the airlines
actually belongs to them, the only income realized by NACOA and DIGAS is
derived from service charges to the involved airlines and sales of company-owned
fuel to non-acheduled users. These charges are established by SCT, not by
NACOA or DIGAS.



- 8 -
3.18      The various other aeronautical charges are also established by SCT,
aithough some are upon the recommendation of the operating services. For
example, enroute communication charges and navaid user charges are established
by SCT upon the recommendations of DGAC and RAMSA; landing charges, aircraft
arking charges and terminal building rental charges are established by SCT
upon the recommendations of ASA. The responsibility for collecting these
charges rests with RAMSA and ASA, respectively. As an example, a private or
corporate pilot, as opposed to a scheduled airline pilot, is required to obtain
departure clearances from both organizations prior to takeoff.
(i) Aviation Coordination
3.19      Fragmentation of authority for aeronautical affairs, such as exists
in M4exico, creates many difficult problems. Among the most important of these
are overinvestment and/or overdesign of facilities, lack of planning coordina-
tion and split responsibility for items regarding aeronautical safety. Earlier
suggestions by the Bank for the establishment of one Governmental agency to
handle all of aviation were strongly rejected by the Government since, in its
view, SCT already has this responsibility. However, it has been recognized
that more comprehensive coordination would be desirable. To this end, a
Transportation Coordination Committee (Annex 3) was establi8hed recently by
the Presidencia (para. 2.08). One of the subcommittees of this Committee is
specifically charged with coordinating all facets of aviation.  In organiza-
tional structure, this group is located at the Director General level and
has been meeting regularly since its establishment.  Assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations that all agencies involved in the
aviation sector will continue to be handled through the Transportation
Coordination Committee.
(ii) Airport Operations, Maintenance and Planning
3.20      ASA, the authority responsible for operating and maintaining most
of the airports in Mexico, was formed by a decree of June 10, 1965; its
organization chart is given in Annex 4, on page 2 of which are listed the
37 airports presently operated by the authority. It is empowered to raise
and collect charges for the services provided at the airports. It is governed
by an Administrative Board, whose president is appointed by the Federal
Government, and the other members represent various Government departments or
entities having an interest in aviation. The Board has the usual powers of
formulating administrative, operating and investment policy and of approval
of budgets, financial statements presented by the General Manager, and of
tariff proposals to be subsequently approved by SCT; it also appoints the
Director General, who has the overall responsibility of running the authority
under the policy guidance of the Board.
3.21      ASA appears to be well staffed and able to carry out its responsi-
bilities. Improvements are needed, however, in the provision of statistical
and financial information. In particular, modern cost and revenue center
accounting systems must be designed and installed in order to identify the



-9-
costs of providing specific services and to permit the periodic assessment
of the structure and level of user charges. Accounting consultants will be
needed to assist ASA in establishing such systems and to train counterpart
staff. Agreement was reached during negotiations that properly qualified
consultants will be engaged by ASA for this purpose and that ASA will
establish such an accounting system by December 31, 1976.
3.22      Although ASA has a planning department, its activities are limited
to the short term. No recent long range investment planning has been done
by ASA because SOP is entrusted with the design and construction of new
airports and the major reconstruction of existing airports. This consequently
leads to an uncoordinated picture of future aviation investment requirements.
Since the Transportation Coordination Committee is responsible for long term
investment planning, the existing NAP should be reviewed and/or replaced by
a new airport plan, after close collaboration of ASA, SOP and SCT. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Transportation Coordination Comittee
will coordinate the preparation and updating of an airport development plan
for the country.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description of the Project
4.01      The project consists of the construction of seven new airports to
replace the existing ones at Villahermosa, Tuxtla Gutierrez, Minatitlan,
Poza Rica, Los Mochis, Tapachula and Guaymas and the expansion of one at
Campeche. The new airports will have asphaltic concrete runways 45 meters
wide and between 1,800 and 2,500 meters long, depending upon elevation and
use, lead-in taxiways, aircraft aprons, terminal buildings, control towers,
fire stations, fuel storage and hydrant systems, electronic and visual aids,
communication systems, automobile parking areas, fencing, and internal and
external access roads. The expansion at Campeche will consist of a 300 m
runway lengthening, runway strengthening, enlargement of the existing
terminal building, runway lighting, obstruction removal and navigational
aids.
B.   Special Provisions of the Project (Annex 5)
4.02      While the airport access roads will usually be less than 5 km, that
for the new airport at Minatitlan will be about 33 km long, connecting
Minatitlan and Coatzacoalcos, on the alignment of the original road between
these two points. An elementary school presently existing within the area
for the terminal building at the proposed airport for Minatitlan will be
replaced. The proposed airport at Villahermosa is located across an existing
double 60 cm gas pipeline which belongs to the national fuel company, PEMEX,
and which will be relocated. A high-tension powerline skirts the southern
end of the existing runway at Campeche and will be relocated; the length of
powerline involved is about 15 km.



- 10 -
C.   Technical Assistance
4.03      The new commercial and cost accounting systems proposed at each of
the project airports and in the headquarters of ASA (para. 3.21) will require
the technical expertise of professional accounting consultants for proper
implementation. The Government will engage suitable consultants for this
purpose.
D.   Ecology
4.04      The airports to be replaced by the project airports are all in poor
locations in relation to the towns they serve. In all cases except one, the
existing approaches or departures of aircraft must pass over populated areas
with attendant noise, fumes and safety problems. Two of the airports are in
the midst of petroleum industry installations, and an accident could have
catastrophic results. The project airports' approach and departure paths,
on the other hand, are located away from population or industrial centers.
Two of the airports are located on completely nonproductive land, while
the others are located on low production agricultural land. At each
of the new airports, drainage of the area will be improved and stagnant
pools will be eliminated.
E.   Design and Supervision
4.05      SOP has been designing and supervising the construction of airports
in Mexico for the past several years. It basically uses the International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards for its international airports,
and ICAO recommended domestic standards for each class of its domestic airport
system. The present project engineering is well advanced and will be sub-
stantially completed by the time the loan, is signed.  The standards used are
acceptable, and the designs presented are the least cost solutions. The
SOP engineers involved are competent, and the quality of their work is good.
SOP will carry out the contract management and construction supervision
through the middle of 1978. The costs for this,engineering work have been
included in the total project cost estimates.
F.   Cost Estimate
4.06      It is estimated that the total cost of the project would be 740.6
million pesos (US$59.3 million equivalent), of which 261.8 million pesos
(US$21.0 million) would be the foreign exchange component forming the basis
for the proposed loan which, including interest of US$4.0 million during
construction, would amount to US$25.0 million in all.
4.07      The cost estimates shown below are broken down by type of contract.
A detailed itemization of these pontracts per airport is given on page 1 of
Table 3, and the total annual investment per airport is given on page 2.



- 11 -
Contract No.                  Mex$ (millions)            US$ (millions)
and Item               Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total        Z
1. Airport Runway,
Paving, Drain-
age, Etc.             170.4   127.9      298.4    13.7    10.2    23.9    40.3
2. Buildings              64.0    34.5       98.5      5.1     2.8      7.9    13.3
3. Fueling System          6.5     4.3       10.8       .5      .4       .9     1.5
4. Visual Aids            12.3      6.9      19.2      1.0      .6      1.5     2.6
5. Electronic Aids         9.7    18.0       27.7       .8     1.4      2.2     3.7
Subtotal            262.9   191.6      454.6    21.1    15.4    36.4    61.4
Physical Contingency
10%                    26.3    19.2       45.5     2.1      1.5     3.6      6.1
Price Contingency 25%    69.9    51.0       120.8      5.6     4.1      9.7    16.3
Engineering Design 5%    30.9        -       30.9-   2.5        -       2.5     4.2
Engineering Super-
vision 7.5%            46.3       -       46.3      3.7      -       3.7     6.3
Land                      42.4       -       42.4      3.4      -       3.4     5.7
TOTAL               478.6   261.8      740.4    38.3    21.0    59.3   100.0
4.08      The cost estimates were developed by SOP and are based on recent
civil and architectural airport work awarded in Mexico, updated to mid-1974
prices; they are considered reasonable. Land required for this project is in
various stages of acquisition. During negotiations, it was agreed that land
for any one airport would be owned by the Government before any contract for
development of that airport would be awarded.
4.09      An item for physical contingencies amounting to 10% has been included
in the cost estimates to allow for minor changes in design and scope of work.
An additional item for price contingencies, based on recent data, amounting
to 25% over the construction period (20% per year), has been included to allow
for anticipated increases in labor and material costs.
G.   Construction Employment
4.10      It is estimated that, during the construction phase of the project,
approximately 500 men, ranging from common laborers to highly skilled artisans,
will be employed at each airport with the exception of Campeche where approxi-
mately half that number will be required. The greater proportion of these
would be engaged in the construction of the runway, taxiways and apron.



- 12 -
H.   Procurement
4 11      Contracts for civil works (paving, drainage, buildings, fuel system,
etc.), visual aids and most of the electronic equipment will be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement" after a prequalification screening of interested contractors,
except as noted below. Construction firms capable of doing the type of work
envisaged for the project are fairly numerous in Mexico and will probably win
She awards.
4.12      A portion of the fifth contract (navaids and communication equip-
ment) at each airport will be procured from Wilcox Electric Company, Division
of American Standard, Kansas City, Missouri. The cost of this procurement
will be about US$100,000 per airport, or a total of US$800,000 for the project,
and will consist of the manufacture and delivery of Wilcox VOR/DME equipment.
The VOR (very high frequency omnidirectional radio range) and DME (distance
measuring equipment) are the standard short range navigational aids for the
world. There is ample justification for purchasing this equipment from this
sole manufacturer. All VOR's in Mexico (38) are Wilcox, supply support is
based on this one type of equipment, the electronic maintenance technicians
are trained for this equipment, test equipment for this specific VOR is
available in quantity in the country, training at the manufacturer's plant
is relatively easy because of the closeness of Kansas City to Mexico, the
only DME's in Mexico (10) are Wilcox and the Wilcox DME is specifically
designed to mate with the Wilcox VOR.
4.13      The relocation of the pipeline at Villahermosa, the construction
of the school at Minatitlan and the relocation of the powerline at Campeche
will be accomplished through separate contracts administered by SOP under
the normal Government procurement procedures. All other work at each airport
will be covered by five contracts: Civil Work, Building Construction, Fuel
System, Visual Aids (all administered by SOP) and Electronic Aids (adminis-
tered by SCT). While these will probably be awarded to individual contractors,
a packaging of contracts would be acceptable.
I.   Disbursement
4.14      Disbursement of the proposed loan would be made on the basis of:
(a) 42% of the costs of the first four contracts at each airport,
which represents the estimated foreign costs; and
(b) 65% of the cost of the fifth contract at each airport, which
represents the estimated foreign costs.
4.15      Disbursements are expected to take place from the first quarter of
1975 through the second quarter of 1978. A schedule of quarterly disburse-
ments is shown in Table 4. Any amounts remaining undisbursed should be
canceled at the completion of the project.



- 13 -
J.   Execution of the Project
4.16      Except for the navaid and communication part, the project will be
executed by SOP (para 4.05). The navaid and communication portion will be
the responsibility of SCT. Funds must be provided to SCT so that this
equipment may be purchased and installed in a timely manner which will not
delay commissioning of the various project airports. Assurances regarding
this point were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.17      Awards of the civil works contracts will come first and are expect-
ed to be spaced at two- to three-week intervals. The other four contracts
will take less time to complete and their awards will be timed to allow
completion of all contracts at any one airport at the same time. It is
expected that Villahermosa will be completed by the end of March 1976,
Campeche and Los Mochis by the end of July 1976, Poza Rica by the end of
September 1976, Minatitlan by the end of March 1977, and Tuxtla Gutierrez,
Tapachula and Guaymas by the end of June 1977.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Execution of the project would integrate the eight new airports
with the airport system already part of jet trunk routes and with the two
airports being developed for tourism - Zihuatanejo, financed by the Bank,
and Cancun, financed by the IDB. Apart from cost savings primarily obtained
by the Mexican airlines, the service improvement made possible by the project
airports is consistent with the policy of regional integration of the country
through a more rapid and reliable transportation system. The need for regional
integration and development in Mexico, where there are long distances between
urban areas having the best economic growth prospects, has led to an emphasis
upon aviation as a rapid and reliable system of long-distance passenger
transport. Airport development is a vital component in the most cost effec-
tive solution to meet these transport needs. The expanded air route system
will assist the economic development of secondary growth centers and thereby
lessen the pressure on the main urban centers.
5.02      A major immediate source of quantifiable benefits of the project
airports is the much lower operating cost of more efficient jet aircraft.
In addition, passengers will gain significant improvements in handling times
and reliability of operations which, at the moment, constitute substantial
problems at some of the existing regional airports.
5.03      Another major factor involves the restrictions some of these project
airports place on the growth and development of their local communities. If
relocated to better sites, these airports will release urban land urgently
required for commercial, industrial and residential development.



- 14 -
5.04      Experience in Mexico has indicated a very impressive traffic growth
after the substitution of jet aircraft on domestic routes to newly improved
a rports.  Most of this traffic is diverted from other modes of transportation
Out, in the case of tourism-generated airports, it represents generated traffic.
It is indicative of passenger preference that this growth in Mexican domestic
airline traffic has occurred in recent years despite higher airline tariffs
for services by jet aircraft.
B,   Economic Analysis
505       The quantified economic benefits are:  (a) cost savings to the two
main Mexican airlines, the Government-owned Aeromexico and privately owned
Mexicana with Government minority participation; (b) value of existing
airport land released to owners, the Government-owned oil company, PEMEX, in
two instances, and the local municipality in others; and (c) reduced handling
times for passengers.
5.06      The cost savings for aircraft have been estimated as the aircraft
time saved by more productive jet aircraft compared to slower and smaller
propeller aircraft after taking their relative low cost into account. This
has been based only on the direct operating costs of the aircraft and disre-
gards additional effects on airline economy from better utilization of the
aircraft.
5.07      Most of the present airports are poorly located in congested urban
areas, and at least two on the east coast are situated on land owned by the
Government oil company (PEMEX), which is needed for expansion of plants.
Depending on the zoning regulations in the various towns involved, the
released land--other than the two PENEX locations--is likely to be put to
high value industrial or residential use. The valuation adopted in the
appraisal report takes this factor into account and is based on the market
value assessed by the Ministry of Public Works.
5.08      The passenger time savings have been estimated by SOP as working
times saved at 71 pesos per hour for business travelers and 25% of this rate
for leisure travelers. This is based on the average hourly earnings of the
1.8 million of the economically active Mexican population in 1970 earning
more than about 18,000 pesos (US$1,440) per year. The time aaved has been
based on a comparison of the total travel time, including surface access,
for jet aircraft travel from the new airports with prior travel by air. For
travelers previously going by road or rail, this understates their actual
time savings and partly explains the rapid growth of air travel. The fairly
important effect of improved reliability at some of the airports, which has
not been quantified, will act in the same direction.
5.09      The existing airline traffic structure provides a 0.1 peso surcharge
per pass-km for jet flights as compared with propeller services. This sur-
charge would largely cover the direct time savings accruing to passengers
from jet travel as compared with previous air travel. As a typical example,
for the flight from Mexico City to Villahermosa (670 km), the additional
fare of 67 pesos would be slightly less than the 71 pesos for the one hour
of working time saved.



- 15 -
C.   Project Airports
5.10      In the more detailed description of the economic impact of each
project airport, the airports have been divided according to their geographic
location as follows: the southeast airports at Tapachula, Tuxtla Gutierrez
and Villahermosa; the east coast airports at Campeche, Minatitlan and Poza
Rica; and the west coast airports at Guaymas and Los Mochis.
(i) Southeast
5.11      Tapachula, Tuxtla Gutierrez and Villahermosa form a small sub-
system of airports which, with Mexico City as a base, is served by both
major Mexican airlines in addition to thriving air taxi and corporate aircraft
operations and, particularly in the case of Tapachula, agricultural aviation
for crop spraying and similar operations. The areas served by the three
airports have a good traffic potential: Villahermosa (an economically active
population of 245,000 forecast for 1976 in the hinterland), Tuxtla (220,000
in 1976) and Tapachula (113,000 in 1976). The areas served are also fairly
distant from Mexico City (700-900 km by air). Tuxtla lacks rail connection
completely, whereas the fastest train from Mexico City to the point closest
to Villahermosa takes 21 hours and to Tapachula 34 hours. Air transport
therefore is a vital part of the communications linking this part of the
country with the capital and these three regional centers with each other.
Unfortunately, the location of the existing airports in combination with
prevailing weather conditions has produced a considerable number of cancelled
flights. The new airports will improve this situation significantly. This
factor has not been included in the operational cost/benefit analysis although
the lost revenue from Villahermosa cancellations alone in 1972/73 represented
over 1.0 million pesos (above 100 flights).
5.12      The economic rates of return on the investment at these three
airports from only aircraft cost savings and released land values range from
30% for Villahermosa and 25% for Tuxtla to 11% for Tapachula. If passenger
time savings are also included, the corresponding rates are 38%, 33% and 17%.
(ii) East Coast
5.13      The three east coast airports, Campeche, Minatitlan and Poza Rica,
are not part of a separate route system. The new airports will be integrated
with other domestic airports which already use Jet aircraft on scheduled
services. Campeche is located on the routes to Merida while Poza Rica is on
new routes to Tampico and possibly Vera Cruz. Most services to Minatitlan
are terminating flights from Mexico City. A main part of the justification
for two of the airports, Poza Rica and Minatitlan, is the release of existing
airport land for industrial purposes. The two present airports are both on
land owned by the Government oil company (PEMEX) and needed for oil refinery
expansion. PEMEX is planning expansion of plants at both sites, 4 billion
pesos at Minatitlan and 750 million pesos at Poza Rica over the next four
years. The new airports will also better serve the town of Tuxpan (Poza
Rica Airport) and Coatzacoalcos (Minatitlan Airport). The development of



- 16 -
Campeche is more limited in view of the existing traffic.  The project,
however, includes the procurement of land for long term development of a new
runway when traffic growth will justify such an investment.
5.14      The economic rates of return on the investment at these three air-
ports from aircraft cost savings and value of released land range from 25%
for Minatitlan and 17% for Poza Rica to 13% for Campeche. If passenger time
savings are also included, the corresponding rates are 30%, 21% and 14%.
(iii) West Coast
5.15      The two airports, Los Mochis and Guaymas, on the west coast are
completely different from the six other project airports. The current traffic
at the small existing airports is mainly for flights to the Baja California
peninsula. The new airports would integrate these communities with the main
domestic airline routes and, in the case of Guaymas, would also increase the
tourist traffic from the western United States. The economically active
population expected in 1976 is 190,000 for Los Mochis and 38,000 for Guaymas.
Despite this relatively small population, traffic potential is good because
the distances to the rest of the country are very long, and the needs for
communication for the vegetable exporters in the Los Mochis area and for
tourism in Guaymas become much greater. In Los Mochis, the release of
valuable urban land within the city is also an important factor.
5.16      The economic rate of return on the investment from aircraft cost
savings and released land values is 29% for Los Mochis and 18% for Guaymas.
If passenger time savings are also included, the rates are 35% and 23%. None
of these rates take into account the effect of tourism generated for Guaymas
as a partial result of the project, but consider only the transportation cost
savings or airline cost/revenue improvements.
D.   Total Project Return
5.17      In addition to the project return for individual airports, the
combined effect of the individual projects has been estimated. The overall
economic return from aircraft cost savings and value of released land of the
existing airports is 22%. If passenger time savings are also included, the
return is 29%. Disregarding these as well as land values would still bring
an economic return of 15.5% based on aircraft cost savings alone.
5.18      A sensitivity analysis has been carried out for all project airports
individually and as a group. The average economic return of 22% would be
28% at 25% higher benefits and 16% at 25% lower benefits. A construction
cost overrun of 15% would decrease the 22% rate to 21%. The sensitivity
analysis for each individual airport is given in Table 5.
E.   Air Route Analysis
5.19      The project will involve added investment in the airports as well
as aircraft, with the ultimate beneficiaries being the traveling public. The
preceding analysis sets forth only the overall benefits without particular



- 17 -
attention to their distribution. The higher jet tariffs transfer most of the
direct passenger time-saving benefits to the airlines. To ascertain the
benefit-cost distribution of the airline/airport system as a whole, a special
analysis was carried out for each airport, giving total estimated costs and
revenues for each route for airlines as well as airports. The return on the
total project airport investment plus airline and airport costs versus airline
revenues over the project routes has been calculated by discounting the full
investment and the operating costs and revenues at the 1973 price level. The
rates of return vary between 16% and 20%, depending on the assumptions used
concerning airline cost allocation between domestic and international services
of common costs, such as passenger services, ticketing and general adminis-
tration. While lower, this analysis yielded broadly the same results for all
airports as those referred to under (a) through (c) in paragraph 5.05 preced-
ing. This indicates that the airline passenger tariffs at current levels
would allow increases in project airport charges to offset increased airport
costs. Since the Government-owned airline, Aeromexico, is operating into
seven of the eight project airports, the analysis also indicates that Mexican
Government enterprises will be the major beneficiaries even if no modifications
are made to airport charges.
F.   Additional Advantages
5.20      The quantified analyses preceding take into account the major factors
prevailing at most airports influencing the justification of the project.
There are, however, a number of other considerations which have not been
quantified, either because they relate to only one or two of the project
airports or because they are more difficult to ascertain with accuracy. The
potential for generated exports of high value perishable products exists at
Los Mochis and Campeche. Increased reliability of flights, together with
improved air safety, is important for some airports (para 4.04 and Annex 6)
and indirect effects of expanded tourism for still others (para 5.15). No
value has been assigned to the importance of regional integration and devel-
opment achieved as the result of an increase of almost 50% in the number of
cities in Mexico efficiently served by air services. If all of these factors
were to be fully quantified, the returns of the project would undoubtedly
increase very significantly. Even under very pessimistic assumptions
concerning higher airline costs and airline fares as a result of changed fuel
prospects, the project economic returns are therefore likely to remain at
high levels.
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Existing Situation of ASA
(i) General
6.01      ASA has operated profitably since its formation in 1965, and, from
196^ onward, its earning power has increased rapidly, assisted by phased
tariff increases commencing in 1969 (Annex 7).



- 18 -
6.02      Table 6 gives revenue and expenditure accounts, and Table 7 gives
summary balance sheets for the years 1965-1973. Cash flows for the years
1968-1973 are given in Table 8. Annex 8, which describes ASA's past and
existing finances in detail, is briefly summarized below.
(ii) Earnings
6.03      Total annual revenues rose from 94 million pesos in 1968 to 367
million pesos in 1973, while total operating costs rose from 67 million pesos
to 275 million pesos. Except for some fluctuations in 1969 and 1970, the
operating ratio has been about 71-75%. Operating expenses are understated
because certain maintenance carried out by SOP was not charged to ASA. The
cost of this maintenance should, in the future, be identified by ASA, so that
ASA's accounts will more correctly reflect the cost of operating and main-
taining the airports. Depreciation rates are adequate but total depreciation
charges are understated (paras. 3.21 and 6.06)
(iii) Financial Position
6.04      Cash and bank balances and deposits rose to 317 million pesos by
the end of 1973. Included is a balance of 216 million pesos held, without
interest, by the Tesoreria General (Treasury). Receivables and inventories,
101 million pesos, include a debt of over 55 million pesos owed by Aeromexico,
largely for landing fees. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as
of January 1, 1975, no future outstanding debtor balances should be more than
three months' operations.
6.05      Since the incorporation of ASA, the Government has provided capital
of about 1,800 million pesos in the form of transfers of airport assets and
on which ASA pays no return. In addition, ASA has contributed about 500
million pesos toward investment. ASA has incurred no debt other than minor
amounts for current liabilities.
6.06      ASA's fixed assets value is somewhat understated in its balance
sheet, due to deficiencies in accounting. It was agreed during negotiations
that ASA, assisted by SOP, will carry out a physical identification of all
fixed assets, to be checked against existing records, and that the deficiencies
will be correctly accounted for by December 31, 1975.
(iv)  Accounting and Audit
6.07      All accounting is done at ASA headquarters, on the basis of informa-
-ion remitted by individual airports. A computer is used for processing
salaries, accounts payable, and overall cash position, but the accounting
for revenues, expenses and receivables is all manual. Although detailed
revenue and expense figures are listed each month for each airport, periodic
summary figures, either per airport, or for ASA as a whole, are not readily
available. In addition, the revenue and expenditure classifications do
,iot readily lend themselves to cost and revenue center accounting, necessary
in order to formulate and review user charges. As discussed in paragraph 3.21,
this will be rectified.



- 19 -
6.08      ASA's accounts are audited by (a) staff of the Secretaria Patrimonio
on a continuous basis and (b) a professional accounting firm on an annual
basis. The periodic reports produced by the latter, since the formation of
ASA, have been reviewed; the audit procedures and quality of audit are con-
sidered satisfactory. Agreement was reached during negotiations that ASA
would continue to employ independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   User Charges and Financial Objectives
6.09      Large investments in infrastructure have been made in Mexico and
will continue to be necessary to serve the expanding aviation industry. The
direct beneficiaries of these investments are airlines and their passengers
(para 5.05). User charges have paid part of this investment in the past and
should aim at paying as much as possible of it in the future. The BEnk has
therefore proposed to the Government that ASA's charges be reviewed so that,
not only should ASA as a whole be financially viable, but also that the Bank-
financed project airports should, within a reasonable time after construction,
generate revenues sufficient to cover all cash operating expenses, and, there-
after, contribute increasingly to general overheads and further investment.
6.10      ASA presently earns a return on net fixed assets of about 4 to 5%,
which, while relatively low (para 6.19), is in line with the Bank's proposal.
However, present tariffs for aircraft landing fees, which provide the bulk
of ASA's revenues (80% in 1973), were established as a result of studies made
in 1969 and require updating (para 3.22), due to increases in costs (Annex 9).
6.11      Taking into account the assumed tariff increases discussed below
(paras 6.13 and 6.14), each individual project airport will generate revenues
sufficient to cover cash operating costs by 1979. This satisfies the Bank
proposal discussed in paragraph 6.09. As discussed in paragraph 6.18, only
two will be able to cover all operating costs, including depreciation and
share of ASA head-office expenses, in the immediate future. However, all of
these airports are necessary links in various air routes, including Mexico
City, the hub of the Mexican air network. Sttictly, each route should be
costed and compared with the generated revenues, but, in a national system,
this is not possible; it would not be practicable to charge varying scales
of landing fees at each airport offering the same level of service.
6.12      Charges raised by ASA with regard to other sources of revenue
(space rentals, concessions, car parking, fuel throughput, etc.) are covered
by negotiated contracts. These should be increased to the extent possible
in the light of recent cost increases; a further review should be made when
detailed costs become available.
6.13      In 1977, when all of the new project airports are in operation, it
should be possible for ASA to raise landing fees for the particular jet
aircraft weight category primarily using the project airports at that time.



- 20 -
,kn increase of about 20% is suggested, which could be achieved by restructur-
ing the present landing fee scale without raising the level of fees chargeable
to the larger aircraft (Annex 7) more likely to use Mexico City and t:he other
larger Mexican airports.
6,14      The following assumptions have been made regarding increases in
charges for the purpose of financial projections (more detail is given in
Annex 10); (a) an increase of about 20% in the landing fees of medium size
transport aircraft in 1977; and (b) also effective in 1977, an increase of
about 15% in other charges (rentals, concessions, car parking, etc.) on the
assumption that the better facilities provided in the new airports would
warrant higher charges.
C.   Income and Expenditure Projections
6.15      Projected income statements up to 1985 are given as follows: indivi-
dual income statements for each project airport in Tables 9 to 16; a summary
income statement for the eight project airports as a whole in Table 17; and
an income statement for ASA as a whole in Table 18.
6.16      The projections are based on forecast traffic growth, constant costs
with a 1973 basis and no change in user charges except for the increases
referred to in paragraph 6.14, on the assumption that rises in cost levels
will be met by increases in user charge levels.
6.17      Operating and maintenance cost projections for the new airports have
been prepared by Bank staff on the basis of past costs for similar airports,
suitably increased to reflect recent wage awards, with annual increases of
about 2% to cover increased costs arising from the expected rise in traffic.
6.18      The projections show, on the basis of the above assumptions, that at
Tuxtla and Villahermosa, revenues always cover cash operating expenses, and
operating ratios of 89 and 71, respectively, will be earned by 1980, improving
thereafter. Cash operating expenses will be covered by Los Mochis in 1976;
by Tapachula, Guaymas and Minatitlan in 1977; by Poza Rica in 1978 and by
Campeche in 1979. These latter airports will still incur operating deficits
after 1985, but on a declining scale. For the project airports as a whole,
the results for 1977 (the first year of full operation by all the new project
airports), 1980 and 1985 are summarized on the following page.



- 21 -
1977        1980         1985
(Mex$ '000) ---- --
Operating Revenues                         24,552       35,448       55,892
Working costs                            12,321       13,077       16,575
Share of ASA overheads                    2,427        2,572       2,814
Depreciation                             36,518       36,518       36,518
Total Operating Costs                 51,266      52,167       55,907
Net Working Revenue                        12,231       22,371       39,317
Net Operating Revenue (loss)              (26,714)    (16,719)          (15)
Working Ratio                                  50           37           30
Operating Ratio                               209          147          100
Their total revenues will always cover cash operating expenses (i.e., working
costs), leaving a considerable amount (net working revenue) available to
ASA for debt service, etc. The working ratio should steadily decline from 50
to 30, but, due to new airports being extremely capital intensive, the effect
of depreciation is very pronounced; thus, in the early years, the operating
ratio is high. However, it should improve to under 150 by 1980, and, by 1985,
the group revenues should cover working expenses, depreciation and share of
ASA headquarters expenses. The cash generation would then be nmre than adequate
to service the proposed Bank loan.
6.19      As far as ASA is concerned, it should continue to operate profitably,
earning a rate of return on average net fixed assets of about 4 to 6%. While
this is relatively low, it would ensure an adequate generation of funds for
investment and for servicing the Bank loan in the future if the financial
policy study to be undertaken by the Government (para 6.23) so determines.
The major reason for the rather low returns is that many of the older airports
transferred to ASA are financially weak, due largely to low traffic levels.
In the case of the project airports, the disparity between economic benefits
and financial returns is due to the fact that substantial economic benefits,
i.e., released high value land, accrue to non-users of the airports and are
not directly recovered through airport charges.
6.20      To improve the overall return on net fixed assets without increasing
the level of landing fees higher than is considered feasible, the Government
has instituted a departure fee for all passengers, domestic and international.
When the revenues from the departure fee are combined with ASA's operating
revenues, the Government will earn a rate of return in excess of 6% on ASA's
net fixed assets.



- 22 -
6.21      It was agreed during negotiations that ASA's charges be further
reviewed, in the light of information from a cost and revenue center accounting
system to be installed by the end of 1976, to ensure that:
(a)  the revenues of the project airports, as a group, will always
be sufficient to cover cash working expenses and to reach an
operating ratio of no greater than 150 by 1980;
(b)  ASA, as a whole, will earn a rate of return on average net
fixed assets of no less than 4%; and
(c)  when the revenues from the new departure fee are combined
with ASA's operating revenues, the Government will earn no
less than 6% on ASA's net fixed assets.
6.22      Projected balance sheets for ASA oier the years 1974-1985 are
given in Table 19.  These show net fixed assets rising from 2,100 million
pesos to 4,500 million pesos, and cash and bank balances, including deposits
with the Tesoreria General, rising from 470 million pesos to 655 million
pesos. Current and liquid ratios of 24 to 15, and 20 to 12, respectively,
and pro forma debt/equity ratios of 2/98 to 13/87 are all satisfactory.
6.23      In theory ASA is an autonomous agency but in practice it is still
in the process of evolving its financial relationships with the Federal
Government. Its annual budget has always been approved by the Tesoreria
Geineral, and, since 1970, ASA has been directed to leave the bulk of its
earnings on deposit (interest free) with the Tesoreria General. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to complete, by June 1976, a study of
ASA's financial policy, including borrowing and servicing of debt; the con-
clusions and implementation of the study will be discussed with the Bank.
D.   Financing Plan
(i) The Project
6.24      Table 20 gives a forecast of the funds required over 1974-1978 for
the project, together with the sources of such funds. A summary is given
on the following page.



- 23 -
Mex$ millions           US$ millions
Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign  Local Total
Funds Required
For Investment -
Project Airports              260.5    476.7   737.3   20.9       38.1  59.0
For Debt Service - Interest      51.0      -       51.0    4.1       -    4.1
Total Funds Required       311.5    476.7   788.3   25.0      38.1  63.1
Funds Available
From Proposed Bank Loan         311.5      -      311.5   25.0        -   25.0
From Government Contribution      -      476.7   476.7      -      38.1  38.1
Total Funds Available      311.5    476.7   788.2   25.0      38.1  63.1
6.25      The proposed project is estimated to cost about 737 million pesos
(US$59.0 million equivalent); interest during construction (1974-1978) would
bring the total project financial requirements to 788 million pesos (US$63.0
million). This would be partially covered by the proposed Bank loan, 312
million pesos (US$25.0 million), which would be made to Nacional Financiera,
with the Government providing almost 478 million pesos for the project.
(ii) ASA as a Whole
6.26      The tentative estimate of investment required in airports over the
period 1974-1985, as given in Table 20, is about 4,930 million pesos. This,
together with service of the proposed Bank loan, being repaid over 24 years,
including four years' grace, amounts to a total requirement of about 5,160
million pesos. Against this, the Bank loan provides 312 million pesos, and
the Government contribution will be 900 million pesos, with 3,950 million
pesos being provided from funds generated by ASA. The remaining 350 million
pesos generated by ASA would increase its cash and bank balances, and, in
particular, its deposits with the Tesoreria General, which could be used by
the Government to assist in financing the proposed new Mlexico City airport.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(1)  The Government will continue to make provisions for air
traffic control and aeronautical communications throughout
the country (para 3.16);
(2)  All agencies involved in the aviation sector will continue to be
handled through the Transportation Coordination Committee (para
3.19);



- 24 -
(3)  ASA will establish a cost accounting system by December 31,
1976, and, to assist in this matter, will engage properly
qualified consultants (para 3.21);
(4)  The Transportation Coordination Committee will coordinate
the preparation and updating of an airport development
plan for the country (para 3.22);
(5)  The land for any one airport in the project will be owned
by the Government before any contract for development of
that airport may be awarded (para 4.08>;
(6)  The funds for the procurement and installation of required
equipment for the airports will be provided to SOP and SCT
by the Government to allow this work to proceed in a timely
manner and not delay their commissioning (para 4.16);
(7)  The cost of maintenance now being carried out by SOP will be
identified by ASA in the future (para 6.03);
(8)  As of January 1, 1975, no future outstanding debtor balances
owed ASA should be more than three months' operations (para
6.04);
(9)  ASA, assisted by SOP, will carry out a physical identification
and restatement of values of all fixed assets by December 31,
1975 (para 6.06);
(10) ASA will continue to employ independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank (para 6.08);
(11) ASA's charges will be reviewed in the light of cost information
to ensure that, for the project airports as a group, the
operating ratio will be no greater than 150 by 1980 (para 6.21);
(12) ASA, as a whole, will earn a rate of return on average fixed
assets of no less than 4% (para 6.21);
(13) When the revenues derived from a departure fee are combined
with ASA's operating revenues, the Government will earn no
less than 6% on ASA's net fixed assets (para 6.21); and
(14) The Government will complete, by June 1976, a study of ASA's
financial policy including borrowing and servicing of debt
(para 6.23).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$25.0 million for a term of 24 years, including a four-year grace
period.
May 28, 1974



TABLE 1
MEXICO
AMPORTS DEVELDMENT FROJEMT_
Annual Departing and Arriving Passengers (000)
A C T U A L                  F O R E C A S T
1970       1972           1975        19B0       1965
Villahermosa                   32.7        74.2         1-42.4      274.2       441.7
Tuxtla Ou.tierrez              44.9        71.0         114.3       238.0       403.2
Minatitlan                     30.1/A      47.6           63.4      102.1       164.5
Poza Rica                       5.5         5.5           6.7        40.0        79.7
Los M%chis                     21.04       29.6          39.5       126.2       216.5
Tapachula                       8.0        18.3           26.6       66.8       1114.6
Guaymas                         0          11.8          23.4        69.4       118.9
Campeche                        3.6         3.6           4.8        12.5        20.7
261.6         421.1       929.2     1559.8
Yearly Average Growth                             17.2%         17.1%      10.9%
/1 1967
Source: SOP and IBRD Mission
December 1973



TABLE 2
MEXICO
AIRPORTS IEVE0FfMT PROJECT
Aircraft Traffic Development
A C T U A L                  F O R E C A S T
Annual Landings            1970       1972           1975        1980        1985
Villahermosa
Scheduled                    4988        4288          2242        3316        5006
Other                        25U1        2580          3210        4700        5995
Tuxtla Gutierrez
Scheduled                    4157        4879          1922        2409        3927
Other                        3487        4659          5360        8635       11020
Minatitlan
Scheduled                     936         624            547        880        1418
Other                         NA         4150          6170        9945       13950
Poza Rica
Scheduled                     327         309            370        730        1184
Other                         NA         4165          6170        9945       13945
Los Mochis
Scheduled                     677         989           823        1591        2719
Other                         NA         4150          6170        9945       13950
Tapachula
Scheduled                     218         397           554         786        1348
Other                        1963        2690          4670        5950        7560
Guaymas
Scheduled                     730         417           654         934        1517
Other                         NA          NA           3180        4862        7432
Camp eche
Scheduled                     415         392            730        730         730
Other                        1082        1132          1400        2325        4675
Source: SOP and IBRD Mission
December 1973



MEXICO
AIRPORTS-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates (excluding Land)
(In millions of Mexican pesos)
/1        /1         /1.        /1         /1         /1         /1         /1                T O T A L S
VSA       TGZ        MTT        PZA        LMM        TAP        GYM        CPE           Foreign    Local       Total
EARTH MOVING & PAVING
Foreign                       19.43      22./5      Z5.8Z      11.38     12.87      13.85      15.28       6.56           127.94
Local                         26.15      30.16      34.53      15.09     17.06      18.36      20.26       8.83                      170.44
Total                         45.58      52.91      60.35      26.47     29.93      32.21      35.54      15.39                                 298.38
BUILDINGS
Foreign                        4.73       4.73       4.52       4.00      6.34       4.84       5.25         .05           34.46
Local                          8.78       8.78       8.40       7.43      11.78      9.00       9.75         .09                      64.01
Total                         13.51      13.51      12.92      11.43     18.12      13.84      15.00         .14                                 98.47
FUEL SYSTEM
Foreign                         .92        .77        .51        .51        .51        .51        .42        .16            4.31
Local                         1.38        1-18        .76        .76        .76        .76        .63        .24                       6.47
Total                          2.30       1.95       1.27       1.27       1.27       1.27      1.05         .40                                 10.78
VISUAL AIDS
Foreign                        1.08       1.00       1.04        .79        .91        .96      1.00         .12            6.90
Local                          1.92       1.77       1.85       1.40       1.62       1.70      1.78         .22                      12.26
Total                          3.00       2.77       2.89       2.19       2.53       2.66      2.78         .34                                 19.16
NAVAIDS
Foreign                        2.25       2.25       2.25       2.25       2.25       2.25       2.25      2.25            18.00
Local                          1.21       1.21       1.21       1.21       1.21       1.21      1.21       1.21                        9.68
Total                          3.46       3.46       3.46       3.46       3.46      3.46       3.46       3.46                                  27.68
107 PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
Foreign                        2.84       3.15       3.41       1.90       2.29       2.24       2.41        .92           19.16
Local                          3.94       4.31       4.68       2.59       3.25       3.11      3.35        1.06                      26.29
Total                          6.78       7.46       8.09       4.49       5.54       5.35       5.76       1.98                                 45.45
20%/YR. PRICE CONTINGENCIES
Foreign                        4.68       8.08       9.35       4.19       5.25       7.77       8.56       1.85           49.73
Local                          6.46      10.99      12.71       5.68       7.38      10.77      11.91       2.06                      67.96
Total                         11.14      19.07      22.06       9.87      12.63      18.54      20.47       3.91                                117.69
ENGINEERING DESIGN 5%
Foreign                         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Local                          4,29       5.06       5.55       2.96       3.67       3.87       4.20       1.28                      30.88
Total                          4.29       5.06       5.55       2.96       3.67       3.87       4.20       1.28                                 30.88
ENGINEERING SUPERVISION 7.5%
Foreign                          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Local                          6.43       7.59       8.33       4.44       5.51       5.80       6.30       1.92                      46.32
Total                          6.43       7.59       8.33       4.44       5.51       5.80       6.30       1.92                                 46.32
TOTALS
Foreign                       35.93      42.73      46.90      25.02      30.42      32.42      35.17      11.91          260.50           
Local                         60.56      71.05      78.02      41.56      52.24      54.58      59.39      16.91                     434.31
Total                         96.49    113.78    124.92        66.58      82.66      87.00      94.56      28.82                                694.81
/1  VSA - Villahermosa; TGZ - Tuxla Guitierrez; MTT - Minatitlan; PZA - Poza Rica; LMM - Los Mochis; TAP- Tapachula; GYM - Guaymas; CPE - Campeche
Source:  SOP and IBRD Mission
December 1973



ATRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Investment
(Mex$ millions)
Total                       1974                        1975                       19'76                       l                          19-3
Foreign  Local   Total    Foreign  Local  Total    Foreign  Local   Total    ForeIgn  Local   Total    -oreign  Loca             o'el _1    ei-gr   =^1-l
1. Construction of Rew Airports
Villahermosa                    35.93   60.56   96.49        3.21    5.25    8.46      22.00   37.30   59.30       9.90   16.63   26.53         .82    1.38    2.20          -        -       -
Tuxtla CTuitierrez              42.75   71.05  113.80        2.11    3.41    5.52      15.43   26.42   41.85      22.89   37.44   60.33        2.32    3,3    6.10
Minatitlan                      46.91   78M03  124.94        1.60    2.60    4.20      16.59   28.21   44.80      26.06   42.87   68.93        2.66    4.35    7.01
Poza Rica                       25.02   41.56   66.57         .47     .76    1.23      12.21   20.78   32.99      11.25   18.26   29.51        1.09    1.76    2.84
Los Mochis                      30.43   52.25   82.68          -       -        -      14.62   25.81   40.43      14.40   24.10   38.50        1.41     2. 34    3.75        -        -       -
Tapachula                       32.42   54.58   87.00          -       -        -       7.78   12.90   20.68      18.66   31.63   50.29        5.58    9.39   14.9-         .40      .66    1.06
C,uaymas                        35.17   59.40   94.57          _       _        -       8.08   13.41   21.49      20.00   34.05   54.o0        6.60   1l.l2   17.72         .4 .**_ 1, 1
Subtotal                     248.63  417.43  666.05       7.3   12.02   19.41       96.71  164.83  261.54    123.16  204.98  328.14        20.48   34.12   54.59         .a9    1.48    ?.37
2.  Improvement to Campeche         11.89   16.90   28.79          -       -        -       7.48   11.09   18.56        4.o6    5.36    9.41        .36      .46      .82        -        -       -
Subtotal                     260.52  434.33  694.84       7.39   12.02   19.41    104.19  175.92  280.10    127.22  210.34  337.55          20.84   34.58   55.41         .89    1.48    2.37
3.  Land                                -    42.41   42.41         -       -        -
TOTAL INVESTMENT             260.52  476.74  737.25        7.39   12.02   19.41    104.19  175.92  280.10    127.22  210.34  337.55         20.84   34.58   55.41         .3a    1.43    2.3-
Source:  SOP and IBRD Mission
May 1974                                                                                                                                                                                         m
L.w



TABLE 4
MEXICOD
AIRPORTS flEVELOFMENT FROJBCT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                     at end of     r
(US$ ' 000)
1974/75
March 31, 1975                                           643
June 30, 1975                                          2,124_
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                    41,163
December 31, 1975                                      6,511
March 31, 1976                                         9,539
June 30, 1976                                         13,138
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                    16,285
December 31, 1976                                     17,837
March 31, 1977                                        20,966
June 30, 1977                                         22,365
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                    23,071
December 31, 1977                                     23,716
March 31, 1978                                        24,12
June 30, 1978                                         25,000
Source: IBRD Mission
May 1974






TABLE 5
MEXIC0
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Economic Return
(Sensitivity Analysis)
Best      15% Construc- Benefit          Benefit
Airport              Estimate    tion Cost       Increase        Decrease
Overrun       by 25%          by 25%
Villahermosa                  38           34            44              31
Tuxtla Gatierres             33            30            39              27
Tapachula                    17            15            20              13
Minatitlan                   30            16            33              26
Poza Rica                    21            18            24              18
Campeche                     14            11            18              10
Los Mochis                   35            31            39              30
Guaymas                      23            20            27              18
Source: IBRD Mission
May 1974



TABLE 6
MEXICO
AIRFORTS DEVE10FfT FROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Sw  ary Revenue and Expenditure Accounts - 1965- 1973
(In Mex$ millions)
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    19732/
REVENUES
Aircraft - landing fees         2.4    35.6    41.1   45.0    79.9  139.1  188.7  251.1   293.8
- parking fees         -        .5     -               1.8     2.3     2.5     3.8      4.o
Subtotal            2.4   36.1   41.1   45.0    81.7  141.4  191.2  254.9   297.8
Space rentals                    .8   11.0   18.8   27.1   20.4   23.8   28.9   28.6    30.5
Fuel throughput revenues        -       4.6     6.1     8.0     9.1   10.5   10.5   13.0    14.7
Car parking                      .2     -       -       -       2.2     2.3     6.6      7.6     4.o
Ground transportation           -       -       -       -       1.7     2.2     2.4      2.9     6.4
Conmissions on sales            -       -       -       -       2.0     4.8     1.7     1.9      8.9
Miscellaneous                   1.0    13.5   15.1    14.o      5.4     4.3     4.2    5*1       4.9
TOTAL REVENUES              4.4   65.2    81.1   94.1  122.5  189.3  245,5  314.0   367.2
EXPENSES
Labor                          1.2   25.6   27.5   29.6   31.8   39.5   47.3   79.2                1/
Materials                       -       6.2     7.3     8.7   13.1   19.5   14.1   20.3
Electric power                   .1     1.8     1.8     2.1     2.3     2.5     2.5     9.1
Maintenance and cleauing        -       1.3     2.9   '5.5      6.!4    8.1     8.8   10.1
Miscellaneous                    .1     2.7     2.1     2.0     2.1     5.9     7.1    9.1
Total working costs           1.4   37.6   41.6    47.9   55.7   75.5   79.8  127.8   157.4
Depreciation                    -        .8   15.7   19.1   24.9    94.5   93.7   97.3   118.0
Amortization                    -       -       -        .1      .1      .1      .1       .1      .1
Total operating costs         1.4   38.4    57.3    67.1   80.7  170.1  173.6  225.2   275.5
Net working revenues            3o0    27.6   39.5   46.2   66.8  113.8  165,7   186.2   209.f
Net operating revenues          3.o   26.8   23.8   27.0    41.8   19.3   71.9   88.8    91.7
Non-operating revenues (+)       .2    1.2    13.8    v.5       7.5   13.6   12.3        7.6     7.4
Non-operating expenses (-)      -       -       -       _   -           -        (.6)    (.1)     -
Net surplus                   3.2    28.0    37.6   32.5   49.3   32.9   83.6   96,3    99.0
Ratios: Working ratio %         31.8   57.6   51.3   50.9    45.5   39.9    32.5   40.7    43.0
Operating ratio %       31.8   58.8    70.7    71.3   65.9   89.9   70.7   71.7    75,0
Return on net
fixed assets %          -       -       -       4.6     6.5     1.6     4.2     5.0      5.2
1/ 1973 Unaudited figures.   Breakdown of working costs not yet available.
Source: ASA published accounts
May 1974



MEXICO
AIRFORTS DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Summary Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1965- 1973 (Audited)
(In Mex$ millions)
1965     1966     1967      1968     1969      1970     1971      1972       19734/
Assets
Cash and bank balances                    13.6       8.2      2.6       6.3      7.0       6.9     15.7      20.3       19.4
Balance with Federal Treasury               -        3.5      2.5       4.1      9.2      13.9    137.9    143.9       215.6
Short-term investments                     -        33.8     53.0      59.0    104.5    146.7      77.7      73.7       82.4
Subtotal                               13.6      45.5     58.1     69.4    120.7    167.5    231.3    237.9         317.4
Receivables                               13.0       9.7     31.6      52.3     38.5      44.9     67.8      81.2        92.1
Inventories                                  .1      2.6      4.2       5.8      5.7       5.0      8.7       7.2         8.5
Total - Current Assets                 26.7      57.8     93.9    127.5    164.9    217.4    307.8    326.3         418.0
Fixed assets - Gross                       8.5      13.8    590.3    635.4    745.8  2,002.1  2,046.3  2,347.0    2,45L.1
Less accumulated depreciation              -        (.9)   (5    341           (59.0)  _(273.4)   366.o)  (461.6)      578.4
Net fixed assets                           8.5      12.9    573.8    601.3    686.8  1,728.7  1,680.3  1,885.4    1,875.7
Deferred assets                              .4       .7      2.0       2.0      1.9       1.7       1.7       .2          .5
TOTAL ASSETS                      35.6     71.4    669.7    730.8    853.6  1,947.8  1,989.8  2,211.9    2,294.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities                          .1      5.0       3.1      2.1       4.5     37.9      12.8     16.2        21.2
Capital
Provided by Government                   32.3     35.2    590.2    619.8    690.9  1,715.4  1,715.4  1,847.1    1,847.1
Accrued surplus                           3.2     31.2      68.9    101.3    150.6    183.5    267.1    363.4         462.4
Adjustments                                _       -         7.5      7.6       7.6     [1.0      (5.5)   (14.8)      (36.5)
Closing Balance - December 31           35.5     66.4    666.6    728.7    849.1  1,909.9  1,977.0  2,195.7    2,273.0
TOTAL LIABIITIES                  35.6      71.4    669.7    730.8    853.6  1,947.8  1,989.8  2,211.9    2,294.2
Ratios:
Current ratio                            267.0      11.6      30.2     60.7      36.6      5.7      24.0      20.0       19.7      s
Liquid ratio                              136.0      9.1      18.7     33.0      26.8      4.4      18.0      14.5        15.0
1/ 1973 Unaudited figures
Source: ASA published accounts
May 1974



TABLE 8
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPffET FROJECT
Cash Flow, 1968- 1973 (for ASA as a whole)
(Millions of Mex$)
1968    , 1969      1970       1971      1972       19732/
------------------Actual---------___________________
Sources of Funds
Generation of Funds by ASA
Net surplus for year                    32.5      49.3       32.9      83.6       96.3      99.0
Add - depreciation                      17.8      25.0       90.6      92.7       95.6     118.0
increase in reserves                -        -          -         -         7.3        (.4)
decrease (iricrease) in
working capital             (18.0)     20.7      31.3    (51.8)    (17.0)        (7.1)
Net generated by ASA                    32.3      95.0      154.8    124.5       182.2     209.5
Govermnent contribution (net)           29.6      71.1   1,148.3        -        130.6     (22.9)
Total Sources                  61.9      166.1   1,303.1      124.5     312.8      186.6
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditure                      50.5     114.9   1,256.3       60.7      306.2     107.1
Total Application               50.5     114.9   1)256.3       60.7     306.2      107.1
Cash Position
Annual Surplus                           11.14     51.2       46.8      63.8        6.6      79.5
Surplus Brought Forward                  58.1      69.5      120.7     167.5     231.3      237.9
Cuzmulative Surplus                      69.5     120.7      167.5     231.3      237.9     317.4
1/  1973 Unaudited figures
Source: ASA published accounts
May 197L



MEXI co
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuerots y Servi-ios Auxiliares (ASA)
Su.irary Operating kccc:ints, 1971-1985
CamZnjhe Airport
1971     1972          1973          197!4    1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
--- Ac tal----       Tentative       -----------------------------------------------Forecast------------------------------------------------
(Mex$ '000)
OPERATING REVENUES
Landing fees                              287       3141          440           557      660       759       891      891    1,069    1,627    1,627    1,627    1,627    1,627    1,627
Other revenfnes 1/                         51        49            48            51       49        52    _74           79    _ 93        116      121       122    _127         12        127
Total Operating Reveniues              338       390           488          608       709       811      965       970    1,162    1.743    1,748    1,749    1.754    1L75          1,754
OPERATING COSTS
Labor                                     248       351           420           455      464      1473       482      492       502       512      512       512       512       51?       512
Materials                                   86      193           212           233      233       243       2148     253       258       263       263      263       263       263       263
3ervices 2/                                 91      195           240           265       270      275       281       286      292       298       298      298       298       298       298
SOP maintenance costs                      220    _280            180           230       230      -        _          _                  _         3()6      306       306      306
Total Workiing Costs                   645    1,019          1,052        1,183    1,202        991    1,011    1,031    1,052    1,073    1,379    1,379    1,379    1,379    1,379
ASA overheads                               97      143           172           186       190      194       197       201      205       209       209       209      209       209       209
Depreciation                               188      188           188           188       188    1,828    1,_28    L928    1,828    1,828         1        1,828    1,.88    1e82 3    1,828
Total Operating Costs                  930    1,350                 1,1412  1 557    1j580    3.013    3.036      L60      3.085    3,110    3,141    3.1416   3X16                 3.116
Uet Working Revenue (loss)                  (307)    (629)         (564)         (575)    (493)    (180)       (46)      (61)     110       670       369       370       375      375       375
Net Operation Revenue (los)                (592)    (960)         (924)         (949)    (871)  (2,202)  (2,071)  (2,090)  (1,923)  (1,367)  (1,668)  (1,667)  (1,662)  (1,662)  (1,662)
Working Ratio                                191      261           216           195       170       122      105       106        91       62        79        79        79        79        79     -
Operating Ratio                              275      346           289           256       223     3YI        315       315      265       178       195       195       195      195       195    |
1/ Includes rentals, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1973



AIRPORTS DEVELOPICNT PROJECT
Aeropertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Sunmmary Operating A?countst 1971-198,
Guaymas Airport
1971      1972          1973          1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1283       i9/8      198$
---Actual----        Tentative        -----------------------------          -----------Forecast--------------------------------------------------
(Mex$   000)
OPERAT SO     Es
Landing fees                                                                                                  1,296    1,557    1,817    2,080    2,337    2,584    2,83?    3,97    3,3?9
Other revenue3 1/                                     _                                                         344       1426      506       593       679        752       835       915    1L003
T ofal Operating Reveiues                                                                                  1_ _641   1,983       23      2,673    3,016    3.336    3,672         4 ,012    4.382
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS
Labor                                                                                                           986    1,006    1,026    1,047    1,067    1,088    1,110    1,132    1,155
Materials                                                                                                       267       272       277       283        238       293       299       305       311
Services 2/                                                                                                     383       3)'       398        406       41h4      422       430       439       447
SOP maintenance costs                                                                                           - _ -  -   -                   -         220       224       228    _ 232        237
Total Working Costs                                                                                        1,636    1,668    1,701    1,736    1,989    2,027    2,067    2,108    2,150
ASA overheads                                                                                                    319       325       3 1       333       3145      351       358       365       3?3
Depreeiation                                        ___                                     --_               _ 4,920    4,920    14,920    14,920    14,920    14,920    14,990    14,920    4,920
Total Operating Coats                                          ___            _                    -       6875    6,913    6952    6 9  4    7,254    7,298                     7393    7.443
Net Working Revenue (loss)                                                                                           4       315       622       937    1,027    1,309    1,605        1,904    2,232
Net Operating Revenie (loss) 3/                                                                                 (5,935)  (4,930)  (4,629)  (4,321)  (4,238)  (3,962)  (3,673)   3,381)  (3,061'
Workiiig Ratio                                                                                                     100        84        73        65        66        61        56        53         50
Operating Ratio                                                                                                    419       3j49      29>       262       241       219       200       184       170
1/ Incluides rantals, ftlel throughpat, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
3/ Non-ASA airp,rt.fguljres for 1971-1975 not available.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1973



MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auailiares (ASA)
Summary Oprat.ing Accoants, 1971-1985
Los Mochis Airo_rt
1971     1972          1973          1974      1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
---Actual----        Tentative       -------------------------------------------------Forecast--------------------------------------------
OPFERATINO REVENUES                                                                                                  (Mex$ 'OOO)
Landing fees                                                                                      1,305    2,043    2,539    3,039    3,544    4,032    4,513    5,o06    5,)435    6,056
Other reveaue,S 1/                                                                                  245       431       531       634       742       850    _ 942    1,045       1  _4     .
Total Operaing Revenaes                         __               _                     -       l550    2-474    3,070    3,673    4,286    4,882    5145a5    6,051    6,579    7,310
OUSRATfNG COSTS
Labor                                                                                                907    1,233    1,258    1,283    i,309    1,334    1,360    1,388    1,415    1,444
Materials                                                                                            246      334       340       346       354       360       366       374       381       389
Services 2/                                                                                          352      479      1488       498       508       518       528       538       549       559
SOP maintenance costs                    ______                                                      -         -        -         -         -         275       280       285       290       296
Total Working Costs                                                                            1,505    2,o46    2,086    2,127    2,171    2,487    2,534    2,585    2,635    2,688
ASA overheads                                                                                         98       399      406       414       423       431       439       449       456       466
Depreciation                               _       _             _               _                 3,248   14,330     43         4,330    4,330    41233      4,330    4,330      4.330     4,330
Total Operating Costs                                                                                     _ 4  6,775    6822    6,871    5,924    72,28    77363    7,421    7,48
Net Workiag Revenue (loss)                                                                              45       428       984    1,546    2,115    2,395    2,921    3,466    3 944    4,622
Net Operating Revenue (loss) _/                                                                     (3,301)  (4,301)  (3,752)  (3,198)  (2,638)  (2,366)  (1,848)  (1,312)    (842)             1714)
Working Ratio                                                                                           97        83        68       58        51        51        46        43        40        3?
Operating Ratio                                                                                        313       274       222       137      162       148       134       122       113       102
1/ Incluides rentals, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Inclutdes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
3/ Nsn-ASA airport-figures for 1971-1975 not available
Source:  IBRD Mission
December 1973



MEXIcO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Serviclos Auxiliares (AdA)
Summarv OLerating Accounts, 1971-1985
Minatitlen Airport
1971      1972          1973          19714     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1985       1984      1985
---Actual----         Tentative       -----------------------------------------------Forecast-----------------------------------------------
(Mex$ '000)
OPERATING RE'7ENUES
Landing fees                                                                                          452    2,334    2,571    2,824    3,106    3,417    3,760    4,133    4,551    5,JO6
Otlier revenaes 1/                                                 _              _83                           43i       531    _634         742       850       942    1 OeL    1,L44    1,254
Total 0erat n  Revenues                                                                 _535    2,765    3102                    48    3,848    k4267    14.702    5.183    5,695    6L26
OPERATING COSTS
Labor                                                                                                 907    1,233    1,258    1,283    1,309    1,33)4    1,360    1,388    1,1415    1,1444
Materials                                                                                             246       334       34)      346       3514       360       346       37"4      381       389
Services 2/                                                                                           352       47'9       488      1498      508       518        528       538       549       559
SOP maintenance costs                                                                                  -                   -         -        -          275       280       285       290       296
Total Working CosLs                                                                              1,505    2,046    2,o86    2,127    2,171    2,1487    2,534    2,585    2,635    2,688
ASA overheads                                                                                          293       399      4C6       141)4     423       1431       439       448       456       466
Depreciation                               _                         _            _                   1-6tz    6s450    6,45C    6,450 i63    6,450    6.1450    6,450    6   4  61  46450    645
Total Operating Costs                                                                  _ _    3.9411    895    8   4           .,991    9,044    9.363    2.423    9,1483    9,541    9,604
Net Working Revenue (loss)                                                                              (970)      719    1,016    1.33i    1,677    1,730    2,168    2,598    3,o60    3,572
Net Operating Revenae (loss) 3/                                                                       (2,876)  (6,130)  (5,840)  (5,533)  (5,196)  (5,101)   4,721)  (4,300)  (3,846)  (3,34414
Working Ratio                                                                                            281        74        67        S2        56        58        54        50        46        43
Operating Ratio                                                                                          637       322       288       26.'      255       220       200       183       168       153
1/ Include.s rentals, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
3/ Non-AdA airport-figures for 1971-1975 not available.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1973



BEXtC0
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PR0Jh'!'T
Aero22ertosr2Servi2i os Aiuiliares (ASA)
Summary Operatinr Acco.i.ts, 1971-1985
Poza RiaAir_ ort
1971     1972          1973         1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      .984     1985
---Actual----       Tentative          -- ________________  __ _                  ---Forecast -------- ------------------------------
(Mex$ 'coo)
OPERATING REIETNUES
Landing fees                                                                                     328       677    1,315    1,627    1,627    1,632    1,884    2,112    2,378    2,618
Other revenues 1/                        -                                              -         47    _25         321       381      1420      511       566      626       688       71
Total= Oe-rating Reveuaes             __                                   -1475                        935    1 636    2 00B    L21 2,142    2 )150    2,738    3.066    3.32
OPERATING COSTS
Labor                                                                                            544       7140      755      770       785      800       816       833      849       866
Materials                                                                                        148       200       204      208       212      216       220       224      229       233
Services 2/                                                                                       211      297       793      299       305      311       317       323      329       335
SOP maintenance costs                                                                             -        -                                     165       168       171      174       178
Total Working Costs                                                                           903    1,227    1,252    1,277    1,302    1, 192    1,521    1,551    1,581    1,612
ASA overheads                                                                                      59      239       244      248       254       259      263       269       274      280
Depreciation                                                                                   2 2,648    3,530    3.530    3,530    3,        3530    3,530    3.530         530    3,530
Total Operating Costs                                                               __       ,510    4,996    5,026    5,055    5,086    j        281   _-z,14    5 3,5    5,385    5.422
Net Working Revenue (loss)                                                                         (428)    (292)      384       73.L     745       651      929    1,187    1,485    1,760
Net Operating Revenue (loss) 3/                                                                  (3,135)  (4,o61)  {3,390)  (3,014?)  '3,039)  (3,138)  (2,864)  (2,612)  (2,319)  (2,050)
Working Ratio                                                                                       190       1,1       77        64        64       70        62       57        52        48    g
Operating Ratio                                                                                     760      5314      307      252       248       246      217       I95       176      161    m
I/ Includes rentals, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, ;ater, telephone, etc.
3/ Non-ASA airpyri.figures for 1971-1975 not available.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1973



MEX IO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PiOJECT
Aero  ue t   y Servici_o Auxiliares (AA)
Su-snae ~y Operatix   -ounts,1971-1985
Tapachu,ll Airport
1971     1972          1973          19714     1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      198);    2- 95
----Actual----       Tentative-- __  ____    __   ______---------------------Forecast-------------------            ----- -----------------------
(Mex$ '000)
OPERATING REVENTJES
Landing fees                              313       450           566           696      874    1,010    1,?96    1,560    1,825    2,093    2,359    2,615    2,880    3,2148    3,1437
Other revemues 1/                         107       141           178           196      215    _37          344       426      506       593      679       752       835       915    1,003
Total Operating Revenues               420       591           7414          892    1,089    1,i247    1,640    1986 2832            2,686    3,038    3367    3,715    4,063    4,440
OPERATTNr COSTS
Labor                                     337       718           860           930      949       967       986    1,006    1,026    1,047    1,067    1,088    1,LO    1,132    1,155
Materials                                  46       207           229           252      257       262       267      272       277       283       288      293       299       305       311
Services 2/                               1314      298           328           36L      368       375       383       390      398       406       4,14    '422      430       439       447
SOP maintenance costs                     174    _250             190           200       200      200       -         -        _         _         220       224      228    __232        237
Total Working CoSt3                    691    1,473          1,607        1,743    1,7741   1,804    1,636    1,668    1,701    1,736    1,989    2,027    2,067    2,108    2,150
ASA overheads                             125       232           278           301       307      313       319       325      331       333       3145     351       358       365       373
Depreciation                              277       277           277           277       277      2775400                              1,550    4,550    4j50  44,550    4,550    14,550
Total O_rating Costs                 1,093    1L982          2,162,321    ?8    2394    6                        6,543    6          6624    6884    6            72023    7,073
Net Working Revenue (loss)                 (271)    (882)          (863)         (851)    (685)    (557)         14      313      630       950    1,049    1,3L0      1,6148    1,955    2,290
Net Operating Revenue (loss)                (673)  (1,391)       (1,1418)      (1,1429)  (1,269)  (1,147)  (4,865)  (4,557)  (14,251)  (3,933)  (3,846)  '3,561)  (3,?60)  (2,960)  (2,633)
Working Ratio                               165       249           216           195       162      145       100        84        73       65        65        60       56        52        48
Operating Ratio                             260       335           291           260       216      192       397       340      2S2       2147      227       206      189       173       159    >
1/ IncLudes; rsnta'3, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Inciudes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1973



VIEXtCO
AIRPORTS DEVICOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Suama-n     n      Aerati  ounts 971-1935
Th;oxtia Airport
1971     1972          1973          1971,    197'      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     1384      1895
---Actual----        Tentative       ------------------------------------------------Forecast------------------------------------------------
(Mex$ '000)
OPERATING REVENUES
Landing fees                               958    1,075         1,216         2,310    3,453    3,982    5,779    6,697    7,658    7,477    8,127    9,0143    9,928   11,160   11,886
Other revenues I/                         186       227           126           278       3129     363       51-9      612       699      776       87        972    1,075    1,180    1.295
Total Operating Revenues             1,1144    1,32          1,342         2,588    3,772    4,345    6,998    7,309    8 357    8,253    89           10,015   11,003   12,340   13.11
OPERATING COSTS
Labor                                      330      525           605           682       696      710       724       738       753      768       733       799       815       831     8e48
Materials                                  ;49      146           154           176       180      184       188       192       196      200       204       208       212       216      220
Servi-es 2/                                 58      178           187           214       218      222       226       231       236       241      246       251       256       261       266
SOP maintenance costs                      272      302           260           280       280      280       -                   -         -        307       313       319       325       33
Total Working Costs                    809    1,151          1,206         1,352    1,374    1,396    1,138    1,161    1,185    1,209    1,540    1,571    1,602    1,633    1,665
ASA overheads                              131      178           196           229       233       238      243       247       252       257      262       267       273       278       283
Depreciation                               23293           293                  2         L93   293    1.1473    5.890  590    5.90    S.Q    5.890    5,890    5,890    5.890    5,890
Total Operatin  Costs                1,233    1,622          1,695         1,874    1,900    3L107    7,271    7,298    7,327    7,356    792            7,728    7 765    7,801    7,838
Net Working Revenue (loss)                   335      151           136         1,236    2,398    2,949    9,160    6,148    7,172    7,044    7,459    8,4414    9,1401   10,707   11,516
llet Operating Revenue (loss)                (89)    (320)          (353)         714    1,872    1,238        (973)      11    1,030        897    1,307    2,287    3,238    4,539    5,343
Working Ratio                                 71        88            90            52       36        32        18        16       14        15        17        16        15       13        *3
Operating Ratio                              108      125           126            72        50        72      116       100        88        89        85        77       71        63        59    &
1/ Inclades rentals, fuel throuighput, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
Source: IBRD Mission
May 1974



NEX f rO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Serviclos Aiaxiliares(ASA)
Sussrary Operating Accoui2ts, 1971-1985
Villahermosa_AiKort
1971     1972          1973          19 714    1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      tL984     1985
---Actual----        Tentative        -------------------- ___________________----_Forecast------------------------------------------
(Mex$ '000)
OPERATING REVENUES
Landing fees                            1,662    2,2114         3,038         3,882    4,899    5,643    7,297    3,904    9,193    9,116    9,495   10,398   11,426   12,535   13,956
Other revenues 1/                         219       225           236           282      329       377      538       659       741       796       854     956      1.028    1,127    1,237
Total Operating Rewenues             1,881    2,1439         3,274        41S_4    5,12    6 02        7.835    8,863    9931        9,912   10,349   11354   12454    3662   15.193
OPERATING COSTs
Labor                                     361       773           927         10014    1,C24    1,0144    1,o65    1,086    ,10,   1,30    1,153          L,176    1,?O2      1,224    1,248
Materials                                 147       107           117           128      131       134       137      140       143       146       149      152       155       158       161
Services 2/                               126       297           326           358       365      372       379       387      395       403       411      419       427       436       445
SOP maintenance costs                     39,       35            200         _320       320       _         -         -        -         -         36o      367       3714      381       389
Total Working Costs                  1,029    1,536          1,570        1,810    1,840    1,550    1,581    1,613    1,646    1,679    2,073    2,114    2,156    2,199    2,243
ASA overheads                             1148      226           271           294      300       306       312      318       324       330       33?      344       350       357       3614
Depreciation                              303       288           288           288    _ 288    5,020    5          520    5 020    5,o20    5502            0 5,0    20 0    52O    5.020
Total Operating Costs                1,1480    2,o50        2,129         2,392    2 ,42B    6         6.913    6,951    6,990    7,029    71430    7.478    7526    7.576    7.627
Net Working Revenue (loss)                   852      903         1,704         2,354    3,388    4,470    6,254    7,250    8,288    8,233    8,276    9,240   10,298   11,1463   12,950 0
Net Operating Revenue (loss)                401       389         1,1145        1,772    2,800      (856)      922    1,912    2,944    2,883    2,919    3,876    4,928    6,o86    7,566
Working Ratio                                 55        63          l48            43        35       26        20        18       17        17        20        19        17       16        15
Operating Ratio                               79       84            65            57        46      114        88        78       70        71        72        66       60        55        50
1/ Includes rentals, fuel throughput, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, -water, telephone, etc.
Source, IBRD Mission
December 1973



ME IC0
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aoerp_rto  Servicios Auxil_iares (ASA)
Summary 0 erating Acconts, 1971-1985
Tota'. ?rDjec,t Airports
1971     1972         973          1974     1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980)    1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
---Actual----       Tentative       -----------------------------------------------Forecast-----------------------------------------------
(:4te-c$ '000)
OPERATING REVENUES
Landing fees                            3,220    4,080         5,260         7,445    9,886  13,479   21,613   25,3314   29,052   30,670   33,026   36,14214   39,954   43,93.2   47,965
Other revenues 1/                         563       S43           588          807       912   1,504     2,939    3,585    41914   is4779    5 416    6  ooh   . t66S       7.2;40    7.927
Total Operating Revenues               3,783    14,723         5,848        8,252   10,798  14,983   25          28,919   X2146   35,448   38,442   4728   4              51,71   55,892
OPERIATING COSTS
Labor                                   1,276    2,367          2,812        3,071    3,133    5,552    7,449    7,599    7,751    7,907    8,050    8,199    8,356    8,510    8,672
Materials                                 428       655           712          789       806    1,1463    1,975    2,013    2,051    2,095    2,128    2,161    2,200    2,238    2,277
Services 2/                               410       967         1,081        1,198    1,221    2,159    2,897    2,953    3,011    3,075    3,130    3,185    3,240    3,3((    3,356
S.O.P. maintenance costs                1061    12l91             830        1,03(,   1,30       140        _        _         _        -        .12d    2.167    2          2,230    2.270
Total Working Costs                    3,175    5,180          5,435        6,088    6,190    9,654   12,321   12,565   12,816   13,077   15,436   15,707   15,992   16,273   16,575
ASA overheads                             500       778           917        1,010    1,030    1,501    2,427    2,472    2,519    9,572    2,619    2,663    2,713    2,760    2,81i4
Depreciation                            1,061    1,046          1,046        1p146    1,046   16,107   36.518   36.518   36.518   16,518   36,518   3618    1X6.,1    36,51a
Total Operating Costs                  4,736    7,004          7,398        8,144    8,266   27,262   51,266   51,555   51,853   52,167   54,573   54,888   55,223   55,556   55J907
Net Working Revenue (loss)                  608      (457)          413        2,164    4,608    5,329   12,231   16,354   20,!430   22,371   23,006   26,721   30,578   34,393   39,317
Net Operating Revenue (loss)               (953)  (2,281)        (1,550)         108    2,532  (12,279) (26,714) (22,636) (18,607) (16,719) '16,131) (12,460)  (8,653:  (4,385)            (15)
Working Ratio                                 84      110            93           74        57       64        50       43        39        37       40        37       314       32        30   g
Operating Ratio                             125       148           127           99       77       182       209      173       156      147            12    9       119       103        00
1/ Includes rentals, fuel throughpit, concessions, etc.
2/ Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.
Source: IBRD Mission
May 1974



MEXIC''
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Summary Revenue and Expenditure Accounts, 1972-1985
ASA's
Total       Total                          Total          Net                                 Return on     Proposed                     Notional Return
Operating    Working                       Operating     Operating    Working   Operating       Net Fixed     Departure       Total Net   on ASA Net Fixed
Revenues      Costs       Depreciation       Costs        Revenue       Ratio      Ratio      Assets in Use   Fee Revenue    Revenue       Assets in Use
Year                                - - - - - - - -(Mex$ Millions)- - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - -% - - - - - - - - - -  - -(Mex$ Millions)- - - -  - - - %
1972 - Actual                          314         128              97            2250             891/      41          72           5.0              -             -
1973 - Preliminary (Unaudited)         367         157             118            275              92        43         75            5.2              -
1974 - Revised Budget                  390         162             127            289             101        42         74            5.4              _      -                     -
1975)                                  441         194             133            327             114        44          74           5.4             57            171            8.1/
1976)                                  469         211             144            355             114        45          76           4.9             62            176            7.5
1977)                                  521         220             155            375             146        42          72           5.7             67            213            8.3
1978)                                  555         226             161            387             168        41          70           6.4             73             241           9.1
1979)                                  588         231             171            402             186        39          68           6.9             79            265            9.9
1980)- Forecast                        622         235             182            417             205        38          67           7.4             86             291          10.6
1981)                                  657         241             194            435             222        37         66            7.8             92             314          11.0
1982)                                  692         246             206            452             240        36          65           8.1             99             339          11.4
1983)                                  728         251             246            497             231        34          68           6.8            106             337          10.0
1984)                                  766         257             282            539             227        34          70           5.6            114             341           8.4
1985)                                  807         264             294            558             249        33          69           5.7            123             372           8.5
i Excludes non-operating revenue - mainly interest.
g ASA's return is actually somewhat overstated. Once
its new cost accounting system is implemented, operating
costs will probably be increased about 10%, so that the
return of 5.2% shown for 1973 would probably be reduced
to about 4%. Likewise the forecasted return of 7.4% in
1980 would be reduced to about 6%, and the national return
in that year will drop from 10.6% to about 9%.
Source:  IBRD Mission
May 1974



MEXICO
AIRPOITS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1972-1985
(Tn Mex$ Millios                .                       _
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      198L       1985
Actual   Preliminary  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - Projectei - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ASSETS
Cash and bank balances               238       317        470       532        455       535        529       468        458       391        383       409        498        656
Receivables                           82        92        100       108        117       125        134       143        153       162        162       171        171       180
Inventories                            7          9         9        lo         lo        11         11        12         12        13         13        14         Lh         15
Total Current Assets          327       418        579       650        582       671       674        623       623        566        558       594        683       851
Fixed Assets in Use - Gross        2,212     2,334      2,704     3,040      3,451     3,780      3,941     4,180      4,455     4,755      5,055     6,065      6,965      7,265
Less Accumulated Depreciation       (462)      (578)     (705)      (838)     (982)   (1,137)   ( )    (1,469)   (1,651)   (1,845)   (2,051)   (2,297)   (2,579)   (2,873)
Net Fixed Assets in Use            1,750     1,756      1,999     2,202      2,469     2,643      2,643     2,711      2,804     2,910      3,004      3,768     4,386      4,392
Work in Progress                     135       120        104       176        240       170        400       625        864     1,078      1,292        700       100        100
Total Net Fixed Assets      1,885     1,876      2,103     2,378      2,709     2,813      3,o43     3,336      3,668     3,988      4,296     4 468      4,466    14492
TOTAL ASSETS                2,212     2,294      2,682     3,028      3,291     3,484      3,717     3,959      4,291     4,554      4,854     5,062      5,169     5,343
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                   16         21        24         28        32         36        40         45        50         55        85         90        50         55
Long Term Debt (Proforma)             -          -          9       121        266       309        400       486        568        650       731        756       730        702
Total Debt and Liabilities            16         21        33        149       298        345       440        531       618        705       816        846        780       7
Capital
Provided by Government             1,847     1,847      2,122     2,238      2,238     2,238      2,238     2,238      2,238      2,238     2,238      2,238     2,238      2,238
Accrued Surplus                      349        426       527        641       755        901     1,039      1 l10     1,435      1 611     1 800      1,978     2 151      2.348
Total Capital               2,196     2,273      2,6       2,879      2,993     3,139      3,277                1,143     t X           3       4,216      r389      4,586
TOTAL LIABILITIES           2,212     2,294      2,682     3,028      3,291     3,484      3,717     3,959      4,291     4,554      4,854      5,062     5,169      5,343
Ratios:
Current Ratio                         20         20        24         23        18         19        17         14        12         10          7         7         14        15
Liquid Ratio                          15         15        20         19        14         15        13         10         9          7          5         5         l0        12
Debt/Equity Ratio                     -          -         -        4/96      8/92       9/91     11/89      12/88     13/87      14/86     15/85      15/85      14/86     13/87
May 1974



MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Projected Cash Flow, 1972-1985
(In Mex$ Millions)
1972        1973     1974      1975    1976    1977        1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Actual  Preliminsary -                                         P - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -rojected- - - - -   - - - -  - -  -  - - - -  - - - - -
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Generation of Funds by ASA
Net operating surplua- for year              96           99       101       114      114      146     168        186        285      222        240       231       227       249
Add - depreciation                           96          118       127       133      144      155      161        171       182       194       206       246       282       294
increase in reserves                   7           -         -         -        -        -        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -
decrease (increase) in               (17)         (7)         (5)      (5)      (5)      (5)      (5)        (5)       (5)       (5)       30       (5)       (40)       (5)
working capital
182         210        223       242      253     296      324        352       462       411       476       472       469       538
Less - debt service (proforma)
loan interest                              -            -         -         -        -       -        30         35        40        46         51        53        54        52
loan repayment                             -            -         -         -        -       -        -           4         8          8         9        25        26        28
S/T Debt Service                   -            -         -         -        -        -        30         39       48         54        60        78        80        go
Net generated by ASA                        182          210       223       242      253      296      294        313      414        357       416       394       389       458
Proposed IBRD loan (Proforma)                -            -          9       112      145       43        1         -         -         -         -         -         _         _
Other borrowing                              -            -         -         -        -        -        90         90        90        90        90        50        -         -
Government contribution (net)               131          (23)      275       116       -        -        -                              -
TOTAL SOURCES                     313          i86       507       47O      398      339      385        403       504       447       506       444       389       458
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure (Proforma)
The Project:
local currency                            -            -         12.      176       210      35        l         -         -         -         -         -         _         _
foreign exchange                       _               -          7       104       127    2e          1         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
S/T Project Cost                                 -         19      260       337      56        2         _         -          _         -         _
Interest during Construction                  -            -          2         8       18       22       -          -         -         -         -         -
New Mexico City Airport                      -            -         -         20       20      82      214        214       214        214       214       118        -         _
Other Capital Expenditure                    306          107       333       100      100      100      175        250       300       300       300       300       300       300
TOTAL APPLICATION                   306         107       35         408      75      259      391        464        514       514       514       418       300       300
Cash Position
Annual Surplus  (deficit)                      7           79       153        62      (77)      80     (6)         (61)      (lo)      (67)      (8)        26        89       158
Surplus Brought Forward                      231         230        317       470     532      455      535        529       1468      1458       391       383         0       1498
Cumulative Surplus                           238          317       470       532      455     535      529        468       458        391       383       409       498       656
May 1974



ANNEX 
MEXTICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMNNT PRCJECT
Bank Participation in the Transportation Sector
A. HIGHWAYS
Loan
Amounts
Loan No.   Date    Us$ mil.               Works                  Present Status
268-ME  Cct. 1960    25.0       3,150 km of federal highways    Cotpleted in 1968
317-ME June 1962    30.5        385 km of toll roads, five       Completed in 1967
toll bridges and purchase
of a ferry boat
35h-ME  Sept. 1963   40.0       6,000 km of federal highways    Completed in 1972
and purchase of maintenance
equipment
4.Ol-ME Feb. 1965    32.0       350 km of toll roads and three  Completed in 1970
toll bridges
528-ME  Jan. 1968    27.5       2,200 km of federal highways    Completed in Sep. 1973
695-ME  June 1970    21.8       1,040 km of federal highways   Ekpected to be
completed by mid-1975
968-Ma  March 1974   9o.0       1,875 km of federal highways    Expected to be
completed by mid-1978
Sub-Total         266.8
B. RAILWAYS
103-ME Aug. 1954    61.0        Rehabilitation of "EL Pacifico" Completed in 1959
Railway
825-ME June 1972    75.0        Rolling stock rails, workshops  Expected to be
and terminals for five railways completed by mid-1975
Sub-Total         136.0
C. PORTS
820-ME  May 1972     20.0        installations and equipment    Ecpected to be
for three ports                 completed by early
1976
GRAND TOTAL       422 , 8
December 1973



A14NEX 2
MEXICO
AIPPQRTS DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Aircraft Equipment for Mexican Airlines
,'L, st(Jl;u.LLCO
IDouuLas      DG 8 - 63      2
DC 8 - c(0     4
DC 9  - lO    10
DC 9 - 30      6 (on order)
DClO - 30      2 (on order)
Servicios Aereos E,peciales
Empresas Aero Alimentadoras
DHi Twin Otter               8
1,EXiCANIA
BoeinL! 727-200              7+ (3 on order)
727-100              9
Dou~,las DC 6                3
Compara.tive Performance and Estiraated Cost
For 4edi'um-Range Aircraft
Direct Operating       Seat km      Cost per
cost per block hr    per block    Seat km
A1IICrcriT                    A_________hour                 ____
c e  Aircraift
-lt~ing 77-1O()                    800               56000         1.4
),. u ,wlas DC9-10                500                31400         1.5
;*_rtv3L.iar Aircraft
Doji-las DiC                                          21000        2.0
Hawker Sidd6eley II?748            3?0               13000          2.5
January 1if71



ANNEX 3
MEXIC 0
AIRPORTS DEVELOP0MT PROJECT
Transportation Coordination Comnmittee - Participants
Depcndencias (cl cC;bicrno Federal
Secrctaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
Sccretari;a dei Obras Pxil1hlicafi
Secretarfa de Marina
Secretarra de la Presidencia
Secretaria dei Patrimonio Nacional
Secretaria de Industria y Comercio
Secretar&a de la Defensa Nacional
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico
Departamento de Turismo
O,Banismos Descentralizados y Empresas de Participaci6n Estatal
Pctr6lcos Mexicanos
Carninos y Puentes Federales de Ingres ,s y Servicios Conexos
F'errocarriles Nacionales de M6xico
Ferrocarril dCel Pi-lcft'ico, S. A. de C. V.
Ferrocarril cle Chihuahua al Pacifico, S. A. de C. V.
.'err-carril Son  A-.W Carifor:ia, C  j 
Ferrocarriles Unidosc dcl Sureste, S. A. de C. V.
Acropucrtos y Servicios Auxiliares
Acronaves de Mexico, S. A.  --
Scrv-icios A6ereos Especiales
Radio Acroniutica IMexicana, S. A.
N'aci cla i dc CoiTh st ii  e s (le Avia ci6n -
Lirocnas  iime  .a(iora; (Gentro, Norte, Sur, Fste y Oe.e3t)
Thiet;k Nacionail , S. A.
Coins,tructora Njacional ele Carros de Ferrocarril, S. A.
Mexicana de Autohuseb, S. A.
Vehfculos Auicomotoves Mexicanof;, S. A.
Decenber 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPPENT PROJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auiliares (ASA)
Organization Chart
ADMINISTIUATIVE BOARD
DIRBJTOR  LNAL
_ _  _             _  _                    l             II
Administrative       Commercial           Operations     fling        Controller
Manager            Manager               Manager       Chief
Personnel -                                                           Accounting -
Revenues  - |nternal
Audit    -
Costs     -
Methods &
Stores    -                                                             Systems
Budgets   -                                                            E.D.P.
Pmrchasing                 Legal
Department             Department
December 1973



ANNEX 4
Page 2
_XICO
AIRPORfS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Airports Presently Operated by ASA
CODE           NAME                           CODE           NAME
Intternational                           B. Federal
MEX       La Cd. de Mexico, D.F.              CPE       Campeche, Camp. 1/
ACA       Acapulco                            CME       Cd. del Carmen, Uamp.
CJS       Cd. Juarez, Chih.                   CEN       Cd. Obregon, Son.
GDL       Guadalajara, Jal.                   CVM       Cd. Victoria, Tamps.
HMO       Hermosillo, Son.                    CUL       Culiacan, Sin.
LAP       La Paz, B.C.                        CUU       Chihuahua, Chih.
MZL       Manzanillo                          DGO       Durango, Dgo.
MAM       Matamoros, Tamps.                   LEO       Leon, Gto.
NZT       Mazatlan, Sin.                      OAX       Oaxaca, Oax.
Ni)D      Merida, Yuc.                        SLP       San Luis Potosi, SLP
MXL       Mexicali, B.C.                      TMN       Tamuin, SLP
MTY       Monterreyp N.L.                     TCH       Tehuacan, Pue.
NOG       Nogales, Son.                       TRC       Torreon, Coah.
PVR       Puerto Vallarta, Jal.              TGC        Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chis. 1/
TAM       Tampico, Tamps.                    UPN       Uruapan, Mich.
TAP       Tapachula, Chis. 1/                VER        Veracruz, Ver.
TIJ       Tijuana, B.C.                      VSA        Villahermosa, Tab. 1/
NLD       Nuevo Laredo, Tamps.                ZAC       Zacatecas, Zac.
ZIR       Zihuatanejo, Gro.
1/ Project Airports.
December 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of the Project
A.   General
1.        The project consists of the construction of seven new airports and
the expansion of one. The proposed airports will have asphaltic concrete run-
ways with lengths depending upon elevation and use. They will have asphaltic
concrete lead-in taxiways, two or three position Portland concrete aircraft
aprons, domestic or international terminal buildings depending on location,
control towers, three bay fire stations, jet and gasoline fuel storage systems
and jet hydrant systems, electronic and visual aids, communication systems,
automobile parking areas, perimeter fencing, drainage and internal and exter-
nal access roads. The expansion will consist of a 300 m runway lengthening
with asphaltic concrete; runway strengthening through a 5-7.5 cm asphaltic
concrete overlay; enlargement of the existing terminal building; additional
runway lighting; removal of obstructions in the form of antenna towers, trees
and an electrical powerline; and installation of navigational aids and com-
munication equipment. Technical assistance will be provided to help establish
a commercial and cost accounting system for ASA.
B.   Special Provisions of the Project
Airport Access Roads
2.        In general, the airport access roads will be relatively short,
usually less than 5 km; however, the access road for the proposed airport at
Minatitlan will be about 33 km long, 13 to Minatitlan and 20 to Coatzacoalcos,
and is actually on the alignment of the original road between these two points.
A Bank project (Loan No. 968-NE) is presently reconstructing a direct connection
between these two points, about 24 km long, across a swamp. A connection be-
tween the airport and this road would be about 10 km long, but would be more
expensive than the proposed solution besides adding a traffic load on the
direct connection that was not anticipated. The cost of this 33 km by 7 m
access road is included in the project.
School Relocation
3.        An elementary school presently exists within the area for the
terminal building at the proposed airport for Minatitlan. This school build-
ing will be destroyed by the regrading required for the new airport. A site
for a replacement school must be acquired and a school building constructed
prior to demolition of the existing school. This should be done before the
end of December 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
PEMEX Pioeline RelocatIon
4.        The proposed airport at V:!llahermosa crosses an existing double 60
cm -as pipeline which belongs to the national fuel company, PEMEX. This pipe-
line will be diverted around the end of the runway to alleviate the possibility
of damage by aircraft. The relocation should be completed before the end of
March 1975 so as not to delay the runway construction work.
Electric Powerline Relocation
5.        A high-tension powerline skirts the southern end of the existing
runway at Campeche and crosses the middle of the proposed future runway. When
the existing runway is extended, this power]ine will be an obstruction and will
have to be relocated. Since it is intended that the existing runway serve an
interim period of only about five years until the proposed future runway is
needed, the powerline will be relocated at this time to clear both runways.
The length of powerline involved is about 15 km. It should be relocated by
the end of July 1976 so that it will not be an obstruction to air traffic
when the new runway extension is commissioned.
C.   Fueling Systems
6.        Each airport will be provided with a fuel storage system and under-
ground apron hydrant system. The hydrant system will be for turbine fuel
only. Gasoline will be delivered to the apions by tank trucks. The system
will be operated by a fuel company as an airport concessionaire. NACOA will
have tha concession at Guaymas and Los Mochis, while DIGAS will have it at all
other project airports.
D.   General Background Information
7.        During the course of the appraisal, the mission flew into a total
of 12 airports, some more than once, in a twin engine turbo-prop aircraft
supplied by SOP. One of the airports had to be overflown three times because
of weather conditions, and another had to be visited by surface for the same
reason, while two others had to be overflown once each. A landing at a fourth
airport was made at the absolute minimum cloud altitude. The existing approach
to this runway crosses over the town with cloud breakthrough (at 500 feet)
occurring directly over the town center. A miscalculation on approach descent
could have disastrous results. Two other project airports, with 1,000 foot
minimums because of industrial obstructions, have turning approaches over the
towns and the heavy industrial concentrations. The fact that these airports
can be served by the scheduled airlines on any sort of a regular basis is a
tribute to the skill of the crews of Aeromexico and Mexicana.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
F.   Airport Information
Stage
Percent         Runway      Airport   Runway  Length to
AirDort     Designator  lWind Coverage  Designation  Elevation  Length  Alternate
MA~SL       M        N.M
Villahermosa      VSA       99.90          08/26           10      2,200     565
Tuxtla Gutierrez TGZ        87.39          09/27        1,075     2,500      610
Minatitlan        MTT       99.73          17/35           27      2,100     501
Poza Rica         PZA       99.89          08/26          136      1,800     381
Los Mlochis       iMM       99.76          09/27           17      2,000     448
Tapachula         TAP       99.88          05/23           25      2,000     446
Guaymas           GYM       96.00          03/21            3      2,400   1,063
Campeche          CPE       93.94          16/34            9      1,800     376



ANNEX 5
Page 4
F.   Existing Airoorts
CAMPECHE - Capital of State of Campeche
The existing runway is 1500 x 35 m on an alignment of 14/32. It is
equipped with medium intensity ninway edge lights and an NDB. 1/ The apron is
large enough for one aircraft only. There is a tower operated by RAMSA. The
operator of the airport is ASA, which holds ownership under patrimonia.
Aeromexico flies scheduled operations with HS-748. Mexicana was flying DC-6's
but has now cancelled the operation because it does not want to use the DC-6
any longer.
Minimums at the airport are 500-1 based on close-in obstructions.
The anproaches are directly over the town and a large monument. Mountains
are in the opposite approach.
Campeche is a large producer of seafood.  In the past,it did have
an air freight business shipping chilled shrimp to New Orleans. Thi9 business
died out as costs rose using small aircraft. Ground transport to Merida with
air shipment from that point is not possible because of the high taxes imposed
at the borders between the states.
Campeche also has a tourist attraction. It is one of the old fortress
cities of the Gulf of Mexico and, in addition, has good beaches and excellent
sport fishing potential. These are not being taken advantage of now because
of the long distances to other tourist areas, poor roads and poor air
transportation.
I/   Non-direction radio beacon.



DICIEMBRE  15-1972                                                                   DICIEMBRE  15-1972
rA -TORRE rE CONTRn  IELEV 30                         CAMPECHE, CAMP   RADIOAYUDAS: NOB/CPE 227 KHZ                               CAMPECHE, CAMP.
CIA 5666,127.3       R 118.1     V       R G 6 E             AERC PUERTO                                                                    A ER OPUERTO
> 5915                                             NDBf/ADF.P1STA  32                                                    ELEV. 9M 30' IW' LON 90 31'W
ihcz*E 3116     C. APRC~IM~CIDN    C 'CFP-p  T-                    a27 K4-Z
bC_rlE 3116 c APRCY.IU;C15 C                        tEFF'tR' | CPE  o  ASCENSO  FN TRAYECIORIA DE ADRO-
_PE~---                   _f                          _          / g\\ \XIMA-ION FAtLIDA HASTA --
__~ET~              _                          _                          __/                  A LITUD rAN:!LMA PARA -
P TA                                                                                           AAN,ONAR LA ESTACt0rI
D   / /'                                                             f 0 I lo~~~~/ 
GOLFO/DE  ME XICO                '   ICa c                                                  \
/                         \'A                KOIICN     \                             XB\  
/                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~lALA 
Og. -                                                           SASAHCACAL
C A M PECH E. j'-                       SANL
STO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
WOINGO 
'5,   " sEYsai>~L_ RMA                     0f                                         IV, aT      UtBN^CION     _fi'A      OSEU_ACC
K.t .0.=                                        3                         __._=_____ _______t  
r                                          SAN JOE E
E ~   ~    S O U IQ4 PO D.RECT    ICULADOATROWT~O;6S_                                                  _
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
IY2StOTORES  6 00-1   600-1'r2   600-i |K6GO-I'/2                     NOTAS-
-D SEYBAPLAVA                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIES   I          ooa
I Nr FR AM A CIN    A ' 6   CI 0  N A L   D6   I ST A
J-1 -YBAPLAYAJ~I.T V 0 E SUT I L I Z A-                                                                - --S  ANCHO0
Zt;PISTA         IL U MI N A CI ON          AF E FZAPI      ESPE GI.IE
_____________ _______________    M"S    PEIES                 MTS
oAo'     OB54                                            M I R jL-   i5 C00  4 49 20  1500 4920_' S C T-  G
160300'3 2                                                            15 0L  -  492_     --0  4920
E EV3                                                                        MiNilMOS MAETEOROLOOICOS          MCA, ALTITUDES MI~4tMAS DE CRUCE LVO2X-  i100 9010    90311
FALLIDA: ASClENDA EN QDM 160Y, YN PRCOSIGA CON VIRAJF DE PROCEDIMIENTO A LA   TECHO EN PIES Y ViSIaILIDAD EN M. N.         PARA ABANDONAR LA ESTACION
O DE ACUERDO CON INSTRUCCIONES DE:L C.T.A.                           EQUIPO         DESPEGUE
MjINIMOS METEO-*lOG5C05 -TjECII ENPE  ISiBILIIIAO EI MN   IYSMOTOREIES                                       2000,
A TE R R I Z A J E . _____MOT-ORES501"
E QU I PO        DIRECTO            C I RC UL AN D           ALTERNO           W-TIO,4S--
CI1A     N4OCHE       D IA     MAlAIO       4I       NCIE         _____
I Y 2MOTORES  6 00 -1  600-1 Y-2  6 0 0-    600so-11                          NOTAS:-
MULTIMOTOREE 600-I',,  600- 2   600-1i~ 1600-2              80 0 -2
CAMBIOS FKCUFW~SS T.- D   c                                 CPE-N- I  c&w-oz uAcAT                         C T- D G.A.C.                        CPE-0



ANNEX 5
Page 6
GUAYMAS
The existing runway is 2350 x 45 m on an alignment of 02/20. There
is an NDB. The owner is the municipality of Guaymas. The airport is being
onerated by Aeromexico Alimentadores. The only scheduled flights are with
Twin Otters, DHC-6, to and from Santa Rosalia on Baja California.  Even
though the runway and terminal building are just being completed by the
municipality and runway length is adequate, operations by aircraft larger
chan the DHC-6 are doubtful because of major obstruction problems in both
approaches. Minimums are listed as 2300-2, daytime only.
This is a potentially important tourist spot for beach activities
and sport fishing. It is served now by a fairly good road from Arizona through
Nogales. It is also served by the South Pacific Railroad with routes to
California, Arizona and south into the coastal areas of Mexico.
Commercial fishing is an important industry in Guaymas.
The present bilateral agreement between Mexico and the United
States lists Guaymas as a terminal for Air West out of California.



MARZO 30-1973                                                                                   MARZO 30-1973
PADW              rOmItEMCOtROL ELEV. 88                     GUAYMAS , SON. H4DIOAYUOAS NOB 568 KHZ                                              GUAYMAS, SON
iT~~~     )~~~z~~4?4GUAYMA~~~~~                                 T AIDO AYO____ 6   KZG A MA                                           ,S      N
VARMAG.12E                         AEROPUERl'O                       2-7' 59' N               IA E k OPU E RT O
APROXIMACION  VISUAL                        ito 56'w                  IELEV. 2   Af. sOAe     Z7P T     N   o0Ss' V
C APAOXIIASZON    C TERRESTY 
~;-0    I                          649 K
DECAUAYEOU  .HE T RT O                                                                                        .
a                                          w 0 2 ~~~~~~~______________-   23502]7C 0   2 35S0  7 '._  t
__ _20_=_._ __ __ ___=_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        20                                       2350    7 0   GL ;2; 50  7  =        .4854
__ ___        _____ ____   .__ l i-_-''--j_z' '--- --
L INIMOS VETEOROLGGICGS
TECHO EN PES Y V15181LIDAD EN KN.
EQUIPO]  DESPEGUE                      .                                  _
_ . . _ O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I A  -    N7CH__
__ N     DIA                NOCHE           __                          ____-          UO-R      V. F. R.     N.  A.
M ,,,.C~T   RAA              SC     -D G   A C                            YM-   ~  R4~A 2-30  2                                            ;
.,M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CN.   F                                       ,  5 R   M   A    C   I Y  - N S  A   0   1      C   I   - N     A   L   D E  P   I   - T A9



ANNEX 5
Page 8
LOS MOCHIS
The runway at Los Mochis is 1050 x 20 m on 02/20 alignment. There
is an NDB. The apron can accommodate one aircraft. The airport is owned by
Azucarera de Los Mochis and operated by Aeromexico Alimentadores, which also
operates the tower. Aircraft used for scheduled flights is the DHC-6. The
runwav is obstructed by roads at each end and mountains along one side.
The DHC-6 provides feeder service to Aeromexico's DC-9's at
Culiacan and Mexicana's B-727's at Hermosillo. There is also a DC-3 aircraft
fligbt to T.a Paz in Baja California.
Los Mochis is in a very rich agricultural area. It is able to pro-
duce two to three crops a year, including high value perishable vegetables
such as tomatoes and strawberries. These crops are at present shipped by
trailer truck through Nogales to the United States for transshipment by rail
to New York and Europe. Because of various delays, there is often much loss
due to spoilage.
Los Mochis has a canning factory and several plants for the pro-
duction of animal feed.  It is the western terminal of the Chihuahua Pacific
Railroad (other terminal is in Olinaga on the Rio Grande).  A new seaport is
under construction for the city.



RADIO            TORfRE DE CONTROL ELEV. 55'          LOS   MOCHIS, SIN.  LOS  MOCHIS. SIN.
'r  R3QZ5,IIS  VR. AG   I    EAEROPUERTO   AEROPUERTO                                          1UE.
123.0 y 460.5      t 12 2.5    lo08,59, WN0/                          227 KC  ELEV. 1TA. 55'
'.f3411.5, 12 7.3  C. *TER ttESTR E    C. APRtOXIMtAC IO           L M M  =                                                 
i23.0 tl3460.5,SZ                                                                                                         \        
0
10M.N.  ~~~~~~ZPOITLA5                                                                                               lbOO  LOVtt,NO   LTTtW/ 2  O
04~~~~~~~~~
CHA,~~           ~~         MLIU   MIIA30
0~~~~~~~~~~
co             -
IOM.N. 2000'            -      85'            2000'   ~R&ON DE- ALT)TUEfCS
ESA  O    MINO   N  D   05CG    IRJ  DE PRO EDMET  A                                 ______              _____            __ __               __
RCEtROS  LlOC00                   IDC
ELEV 5'          -----        --   _'CIO                                          3000
ESPERA' EN0MI5   IONPOOUN                     MNT.VAJES A LA DERE-                 PIE    L-               -__
CHA. ALTITUD MINIMA 3000'NMNT, IA5zo
ESCAL-ONAMIENTO: EN 0DM 0050CON viRAJE DE PROCEDIMIENTO A LA DE-
RECI-4A DENTRO CE 10 M.N.                     M~~~~~~~PINIMAOS MET EOROLOG COS T    MCA  ALTITcIDCS MINtMAS DECNUZE 
APROXI MACION FALLIDA: VIRESE A LA IZOUIERDA PARA INTERCEPTAR EN AS-    T ECHO EN PIES Y VISIBILIDAD EN M. N                     PARA ABANIONAk LA ESTAC'ON
CENSO EL QDM 005oy PROSIGA EN TRAYECT'ORA DE                        D E S P E G U E               A CU L  B-I    2000
ESCALONAMIENTO HASTA LA ALTITUD MINIMA cE ESPERA.   EQUIPO           _.                           A C U L T     - I   2000U P0
ASCENSO. EN TRAYECTORIA DE ESCALONAMIENTO HASTA LA ALTITUC MINIMA PARA             __       - D_ -              H E             A LMAP  B-3    2000'                   - 
AEANDONAR LA ESTACION (VER CARTA DE ATERRIZAJE)                       IY2 MOTORES  300  1    N. A.                 A P P E  B-I   3000'
MINomos _TEOROtOGICOS-TECHO EN PIES Y VISIBILIDAD EN M N                              _ .__                  A C EN  A-I    3000.
A T E R R i Z  A J E
EQ U IPO   ---     --        -_                                                                                _  __          _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _   _
DIRECTO             CIRC'JL A N D G           AiERN _O           NOTAS-
__D I  i tiecH        91 A !_CHE                I
r2 k!OT(OREs  800---!   N.A          800-2 I  N A.    1OCO-2    N A
A=OS   1                           S. 1 -__  D     _G    I           i.______  _
AGOStO-1960--                S.C- r-- -DG A C                        LMAM-I LMM-O                                SCT-DGAC                          AGOST"-i;'



ANNEX 5
Page 10
MINATITLAN
The runway is 1900 x 30 m on an alignment of 02/20. The apron is
.Arge enough for one aircraft. There is no lighting except for a VASI. 1/
'he airport does have an NDB. The land on which the airport is located is
owned hy PEMFX and is needed by it for expansion purposes.  Mexicana operates
the airport and serves it with a B-727. PEMEX uses DC-6 aircraft here. The
airport is obstructed by a stadium, the city water tank and high tension
lines. The city is directly under the approaches to the primary runway.
Minimums are 800-2 daytime only. Weather problems cause many cancellations.
Minatitlan is a highly industrialized area.
i/   Visual approach slope indicator.



RADIO:  at atT co.im ELEV 90    MINATITLAN, VER   LINATITLAN,  VER.
AR. MAG.7E                   AEROPUERTO  AEROPUERTO
D.A56641a7.3      e 122.5     94  33 W             NDB/ADF  PISTA 02  ELEV. ZV4 M  90'
c. Aw*RMaACz     TMETR                         300 K.C...                                                        /
NOcHE:3116 ,127.                                            MTT  O .=-
P<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~? _ / :
10 M       .      N                 /             80 FE  |                                                T    G  Q    EO 8G 10 
IZQ. ~ ~~~~~~~~ 0_                   0 _   __          0eRO r       0    40    600 -  0 -    I .-   
__ _ ____         _             ELEV 90              o                    0G      O tOX 
ESPERAIEN 0DM 195,TIPO HIPODROMO,UN MtNUTO,VIRAJES A LA DERECHA,        P1 t s  y,5y                 ==0
ALT.ITUD MINIMA 2000.'
ESCALONAMIENTO:EN QDM 015 CON VIRAJE DE PROCEDIMIENTO A LA IZ       - .    IIO  .TO00I0                      M.A -LIUE  _IA  _E - .C_
QUIERDA DEN;RO CE 10 M. N.                             TECHOS Eli P1ES Y VISIDILIDAO EN MtN  MCA.A ATDABANoONAR LA ESTACIC',
APROXiMACION  FAILLIDA ASCIENDA EN 0DM  205 CON VIRAJE DE PROCE--._                    _ _..                    ._
DIMIENTO A LA IZQUIERDA DENTRO DE 10 M.N.       EQUIPO       DESPEGUE                  A l-R-16~ B-10   2000'
HASTA LA ALTITIJO MINIMA DE ESPERA.                                    .       ~         A VSA: G-2    2000'
ASCENSO:EN  TRAYECTORIA DE APROXIMACION FALLIOA.l-ASTA ,LA ALTITUD Ml-               Oi A      . OCR..            A TGZ. R-17   2000't|
_  _    ~~NIMA PARA A8ANDONAR LA ESTACION (VER CANTA DE ATERRIZAJE)    IY2MOTORES   300-I _ N. A.                A IZT  B-tO1   2000'
______________ UNVSETO  o9 O=EH_E_PlS__l,tl;   ES M          UTIMOTORE5   00 1 _**  N. A.             A VER. G-2    4000'O 
EQUIPO                       A T E R R IZ AJ E              ________IJ
DIRECTO           CIRCULANDO   _         ALTERNO          NOAS. CII PlSlA 02. 200-lJ2.                                                  U
_Y   _ _ 8 O-It   N   A.   800=2           N _s0 NCH    A_,   _NCEPISTA 2OJ TRANSITO A LA DERECI-IA
MULTIMOIOtF5 800.-VIQ2   N  A  1800-2       N  A.   800-2  IN. A.
OCTUOtRE t5 --968                 S.C T-D GA.C                     MTT-   UT0-                            - S CT-DGA.F             O    CT3RE 15-1938



ANNEX 5
Page 12
POZA RICA
The runway is 1590 x 30 m on an alignment of 01/19.  The apron
has only one aircraft position. There are no lights at this airport. The
owner of the airport is PEMEX, and it is on land badly needed by PEMEX for
expansion purposes. Aeromexico operates the airport and serves it with
nHC-6 scheduled flights from Mexico City. The airport cannot be expanded.
It is obstructed by fuel tanks, a road and mountains. It is extremely close
to the city. The minimums are over 800-2 and operations are limited to VFR 1/
day.
This is a very important industrial area. It is the major refinery
of PEMEX. It is the nearest port city to Mexico City, but the road is over
verv mountainous areas.
Nearby are the towns of Tuxpan, Papantla and Tecolutla. Tuxpan
has a major tourist industry developing due to its deep sea sport fishing
and wild pig hunting. Tecolutla also has fishing, while Papantla has very
interesting archeological sites.
1/ Visual flight rules.



POZ A RICA, V ER. I g',                TORRi_ DE CONTROL  RADIO                                                                 POZA   RI          V
AERO PAR.A9ERToE                                                                                        AEROPUERtTO   POZA RICA-
ADXfMA,CiON VISUAL I        -T                    _. I
t C. TERRESTRE { C. APROXIMIACION              2.                                                /
-   1  1  ,  - i I f . l ( //e1>?
%  Ct  t t t6T ~~~~~~~~~~~& '           /           0kt*AA*  
1v,,,AaA,                                                                                                                                    J;
K ILOUfU R0S  20  f  25  - ?io               *s _P ,o                         S E T t0 5
.~~~~~(  PIE   VIIC&A  CA A                                 a
t~~~   _                                                                  1                                 0 ___
W\MO VE I O _T sR<_rD -5 f C   : h     P,ES f   .:SsS,L.5110  EN    MS   -|r'.   . f
EQWi P0  D  I R E C T o0    C t R C ti  A_N D O0    A L IE   1NC)              OAS-
D~~~~~~                               D A  I  0HE DAtiNr                 ;:ND
glB,<rv,l~{ORE5 v                            A        ---> v F P  N r A
seIM,;O.TORS   V F 's _~   A _    V_   F 4  L____     |v__R       _
.  I   I   _  _ .____)  | 4 f broRE-9Cf;      S 9Cr -  -C3AC                             -A-
PZA-2                          5 ~ --~ ~-~-~-~~--    s C t-D 6GA C  DICIEBRE -



ANNEX 5
Page 14
TAPACHULA
The main runway is 1524 x 45 m on an alignment of 07/25, while the
cross wind runwav is 1067 x 45 m on 18/36.  The airport is equipped with low
intensity lighting and an NDB and VOR. The tower is operated by RAMSA. The
airport is operated by ASA and owned by it under patrimonia. The apron has
room for two aircraft.
Mexicana operates DC-6 aircraft into the airport while Aeromexico
uses HS-748's.
The existing airport is close to the city with some of the approaches
going directly over it. In this same area, there are very high TV antennas
which are obstructions to flight. Distant mountains and the closeness of the
Guatemala border cause problems in trying to establish suitable instrmental
approach procedures.
This is a rich agricultural area with coffee, cotton and cattle
the chief items. The Government is making a n-ajor effort to keep the people
in this area looking toward Mexico City, even with its great distance, rather
than toward Guatemala City. To this end, the port at Madera is being enlarged,
and an industrial city planned for this area.



ENCRO 30-1973                                                                     EENO 30-19r3
RAOF     -      TORRC OE COITROtL  ELEV-356       TAPACHULA, CHIS.  AAoIOAYU-&sv-TAF  il 3 MHZ                             TAPACHULA, CHIS.
RADIO                        VAR. mA18.1E AEROPUERTO INTERNACKONAL                  tfOB-TAP 318 t".                AEROPUERTO INTERNACIONAL
5127.356                                                     319. KHZ._D|                                          ELEv. 10S/83565 14 53 N 92-)9' A
12CH.311,2*    C APROIlMACO     C. TEESR                       318_ KH.t                                                                     t
-9,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(9 -~                                                                                 3MS ="
?@   \/  X   8  t   x                        o*Ev                                    OXIACiO,TfiTCA.AHOATA
moc"e.3116,12T.3                                   TAP fBr     PSIUI   CO                         IAPUC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~L
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
oj ~   ~      ~     ~      D                                      07___JERNER  &D~  _____--______    15498   5449E* 
_OVRSO  (I  A LTUES 35__MNHS                                                          _EEROOICS_C____iUESMNMA  ECRC
E    CA' A' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCM NAA.                                         __
_______ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ J"JTPCHL                                                           447
~~ -~iji~~1j                         950      DER.              -                           -  - - - - A
FALU}DAV1fRE A LA IZQUIERDA E INIERCEPrE EN ASCENSO EL QDM 090 -Y PROSI-   -'-o  -- ISYVSBLDOr                      hP   BNOA   AETCO  
GACON VIRAJE DE PROCEDIM'ENEO A LA IZOUIERDA 11IASTALA ALTLTUD MINIMA  EOUIPO  D E SPE(aiJ E                                    
DIE ESPEhA O DE ACUERDO CON INSTR'JCCIONES OEL C .T. A                                                 ^ A CA J-3 2000                 DE
__UOS  _EDRO~OS~CO O   _S           _ .__.N   H I DA LO   TC H E                            _
.EE50O-I_                 Ah IZT  L-UA-l  V- 2000'
EQUIPO  DIRf CTO  CIRCULANDO    |    ALTERNO               ------         10- i___              A TGZ D9 9000n
___ DI Y O C H E = __ _ D_ ' '~ t   c_ HE  D iAi7  NOCKE C___T___P__ _
MULTIMOTORES  N A .  600-2  2  N A    800-214  N . A  ' N0 T Av - * PISTA 36, 5CO- I
I.4ULTIMOTORES                      L
-veas tiCT^UI[$--Ktt   S C T-D G A C  TAP -N-I        I N -               S C. T-D.G A CC                      TAP-AL



ANNEX 5
Page 16
TUXTLA GUTIERREZ - Capital of State of Chiapas
The runway is 1680'x 36 m on an alignment of 17/35. There is no
lighting, but a tower is operated by RAMSA. There is an NDB. The apron has
oily one aircraft position. ASA operates the airport and owns it under
patrimonia.  Mexicana operates DC-6 aircraft here and Aeromexico flies
iH-748's.  By December 1973, the runway will be lengthened to 2000 m to
allow the use of Mexicana's B-727's and Aeromexico's DC-9's.  The pavement
will be intended to last for only one or two years until the new airport
is completed. The strength of the existing runway is greatly undermined
by poor drainage. This will be partly corrected by the new construction.
This is a very rapidly growing agricultural area, but it is
located in a mountainous area with poor road connections.
The existing airport located within these mountains has extremely
high minimums of 3400-2. As such, cancellations and/or diversions of
flights often occur.



TUXTLA GJTUEZ,CFS  fJ!J TO-E C                               O  ooTX                LUCES-                                      TUXTLA  GUTIERREZ, CHIS
AEW0 t"'VR-JC130                                          (at                                                                      ACROPUERTO'rP'ANCISCO  SARA9I?
t'lOB-AE2F             _                        N 22.5 f    4v   < lAA 5643. l2R 3122                                                        ELEVACtON  575M  190e
380 NC.                  C TERRESTIRE       C APROMACION
TGZ D=HE| 3116. IZ7 3
A- WEs43 4X w.. Xi                                                                                      i)t i A  
(0009' ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ oo 30                      0
49007' ~     ~         ~         L    00
RD-I?                                     N                                                                           A,  o - o S                      r
ESAON'     M  " <   , -W  UE ESKtA                                                  EQ    ) XX                     50           \ 
A.DOAM     'PL,A A'INk  iN PAT     DEEP\A                                                          A   NC
1 5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M _                     -.<CIA EN tW 2   !90  Y1640  4400-
i-il-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iii  .
E                                                 TEPO  tS IA~' CTEAOIC A. - . A
E5t=  Ft o #M3104twOefpa9> IS_E RS 0T .0                                                       E    IS 4  E                                            A U E.A
AScENSo:~~ HEU  FAP Dt7                                                                 CARSLRPEA HASftCA NATYOI) YllU ASE PFaeSUER N   ENOD0       t'tE lJTE.30-2_N.  
5~~~~~ UD6711A3-~                                                                          EL T-REN FS AE ELEVA  APVAENTE AL WA PTE   Y AL NORESTE  HSTA 4AS DE
~ __ __s__ _ __  . . _ w   _  :==  ................................000..A.......M..W.DE 30D'CAA2E t NAti LAYC^ASEP A 7 Y 0HATA 370' A WN. At SvLSBREST
;6-it         s.cT-a                              AemtL                 >~~~~~~~  ;                               T       CiR7LDE                      J



ANNEX 5
Page 18
VILLAHERMOSA - Capital of State of Tabasco
The runway is 1830 x 30 m with an alignment of 02/20. There is
ne lighting other than a VASI but there is an NDB and VOR 1/. A tower is
onerated by RAMSA. The airport is operated by ASA and owned by it under
patrimonia.  Mexicana operates the B-727 into this airport and Aeromexico
flies its DC-9 here. The runway is being given a temporary extension to
2'000 m pending construction of the new airport, but, because of a road and
historical monument obstructions, the threshold is displaced on Runway 02.
The city is growing closer to the airport and the major approaches
lie directly over it. Because of obstructions, the minimums are 500-1.
This causes many cancellations and/or diversions.
The area is growing rapidly because of its agricultural importance.
This is another airport where freight may become an important factor.
1/ VOR - Very high frequency omnidirectional radio range.
May 1974



R '    T        OME OE CONTROL ELEV.55'    VILLAHERMOSA, TAB.                          VRAYUDAS:VOR,VSA 113 MHz         VILLAHEPMOSA ,TAE
ot&5566 .127.3    TyR118.1   VAR.MAG.70 E                    AEROPUERTO                NDSSA336 KHZ                                     AEROPUERTO
VOR PISTA 02                                         ELEV. /7M  55      g IS800 N  92- 59' W
N"OcNE3116 , 1273  C APROXIiACION    C TERRESTRE               117.3 MHZ
VSA-:--
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  ' C't)f\    t1 /  TW,....-,Wi   8,S')~~~~~ ("dll,
I ,K, 33;A':l l;  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ciIJw   ~~~~~~TOXL
AWQ)  \[    EL      !                        .    '                   .    (:   ASCENSOS: eSTAs 020r 2)
X~~~~ L    R 9f7O NA PARE BNIARAE
Ri~     ~    ~~ ~~~ fi ix    /1k        0) o                                                                   )0 100  
JR \  \\a    p9 \   ./                     r> J.j
'Jzwil                                                                                              1INFORUACIoNADIC-i -~
VLAHERMOSA          j/                                     .~
EL                                                                                    P S A O Y 2
O                                   OREFtMGRO                                      A GSO sT  02 Y 20
)                             '                                                               NCA EN TRAYECTORIA OE
-/ / E L E V   5 5   U I { M O S   b t E T E O R O L O G I C O S   M C A .  A L T I   A P x IM AC J .H .A S T A   L A   A L T TUO
FA:S0                        D000 CNIRANAMA PARA ABANMONAR LA ES-
. ~~~ __                                                 _       _        _
_L Dl   R. cro   CIRCU    L    AN    DO   |   ALTE  _   0_  S   500  300   A 50 V TACION0
Y 2 1dOTORE5  5 0 0 - I   6 0 0 - 2    1  8 0 0 -                   002           300
PIES      - -
S00        2000           4000
I N FOR M AC IO0N   A D IC IO0NAL   DE   PI STA S
LONGITUDESUTLALS ANO
PISTA       I L PU MI N A C I 0 N     ATE RRIZ AJE    DESEGU
NTTS PIES   S            PIES MSR~
VOR                                     02    MIRL                            1680 5575  1~68 0- 5575~  35  '5
1500'  E-1950ERSON E ALT T U_E                             20 MIRL                             1 68 0 5 57 5  I660  5575  _     -
K) MN.                                 0      -~~~Fi2-                                           --       ___
0150                                        LUCES  DE  ~~~~~~~~~~RODAJE___  ___ ___
__---ELE-V. 55   -          MINIMOS METEOROLOGICOS         MCA. ALTITUDES MINIMAS DE CRU.CE 0
FAL-LIDA'ASCIENDA EN RADIAL 020 CoN VIRAJE DE PROCELIMIENTO) A LA IZQUIER-       '   VVISSBILID.ID EN UA W         PARA ABANDONAR LA ESTACION
DA DENTRO DE I0 M.N. HASTA LA ALTlTUD MIMMA DE ESPERA,O 0 E ACLERDOEQIO        D E SP E GUE              (,ME' G-2  -  2000'
CON t'NSTRUOCIONES DEL C.TA.                                      EouipoOH                             ATZ:BIl- 400
MAINIMOS M.ETEOROLOGICOS - TECHO EN PIES Y VISIBLIDAD EN M_N  ly2M0T0RES
A T E R R f Z A J E                                         A MTT'  G-2   -2000'               
EOUIPO      DI RE CTO          C IRCU L AN DO          ALTERNO                           0      IA VER'  R-16  -2000'
D I A  Y  NOCIIE   - D I A Y NOCMIE    0- A  YNUCHE
,Y 2OTORES--OT-
5 0 0               60 0 -2               80 0- 2
CIM C; AIA 0*A                mCDGA                                             xIT ~<A                    S. C.T. - 0 G. A C.                     A0



I



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Background of Individual Airports
1.        Tapachula is the center of a rich agricultural area; it is a
large cotton-producing area as well as the richest coffee-producing land
in Mexico. The airport is part of a general area development, including
the port and industry in Puerto Madera and a Bank-financed road project
(part of the Seventh Highway Project, Loan 968-ME). The close proximity
of Tanachul'a to the Guatemala border increases commercial travel by air
and makes the airport a staging point for international general aviation.
2.        Tuxtla Gutierrez is the center of an area having a number of
small communities with a total population of over 0.8 million in 1970.
This area is partly mountainous and, in addition to its agriculture, has
hydroelectric power from one of the largest dams in the country. However,
it is fairly isolated, with no railway and only one paved road to the
west coast. Air passenger transportation is therefore relatively more
important than in other more accessible areas even for the short distance
travel to Tapachula (southeast) and Villahermosa (north).
3.        Villahermosa is the capital of the State of Tabasco and has about
the same population in the hinterland as Tuxtla. Because of its better
integration with other parts of the country, industry is more important:
in this area, which is further enriched by natural gas fields. The existing
airport is a transit point on the different routes from Acapulco, Merida,
Mexico City, Oaxaca and Tuxtla. This position is likely to be even more
imDortant when current airport limitations are overcome.
4.        Poza Rica is a rapidly developing center of oil and gas fields
and has a major PEMEX oil refinery. The hinterland had about 1.8 million
inhabitants in 1970, and an economically active population of 486,000 is
forecast for 1976. Despite the industrial development, the major part of
the population is still employed in agriculture, primarily in the rich
agricultural area between Poza Rica and Tuxpan. The present airport has
little traffic as a result of flight restrictions due to its location and
resulting lack of flight regularity. In 1973, some 14% of all scheduled
flights were canceled because of weather below flight minimums established
to avoid obstacles close to the airport.
5.        Minatitlan is in many ways similar to Poza Rica.  It is, however,
more distant (500 km) from Mexico City; therefore, in spite of lower
population (0.6 million in 1970), it has fairly high traffic even at the
existing restricted airport. The economically active population is expected



ANNEX 6
Page 2
to total 187,000 in 1976, and the PEMEX oil refinery is larger than in
Poza Rica and part of a petrochemical complex. The port city of
Coatzacoalcos has ongoing development of various industries, the most
important of which is chemical production.
Campeche, although much more distant from Mexico City (some 589 km
by air), has much less traffic potential, primarily due to its limited
population (0.3 million in the hinterland in 1970) and an estimated economi-
cally active population of 54,800 forecast for 1976. This is a port with
one of the largest shrimp fishing fleets in Mexico plus a major oil terminal
serving the needs of the Yucatan peninsula. Campeche has several shipyards
for building fishing vessels. It also has refrigeration plants for the
landed shrimp prior to further transportation by refrigerated trucks.
Potentially, the improved airport could lead to a revival of fish exports
by air: however, this would imply a major change in distribution patterns
which may take some time to evolve.
7.        Los Mochis had about 0.5 million inhabitants in 1970, supported
mostly by agriculture. The main recent development in this area has
consisted of greatly extended irrigated areas, producing much larger fresh
vegetable exports. Additional irrigation will be partly supported by the
Bank in an agricultural project. Present consumers for this commodity are
the United States and, to a much lesser extent, western Europe. Most of
the crop is shipped by truck and rail to Tucson with European requiremen'ts
transshipped by air from United States airports. After a period of develop-
ment, agricultural production very likely could lead to direct air shipments
from the project airport to the northeastern United States and western
Europe. The reduction of spoilage and availability of larger quantities
will make this development worthwhile. The main shippers are also in need
of much better communications with the United States border area (700 km)
and Mtexico City (1,100 km).
3.        Guaymas had only 121,000 inhabitants in 1970, which would probably
not justify direct jet services. On the other hand, it is one of the
coastal resorts most accessible for states in the western United States
and, therefore, is a rapidly developing'tourist area. Thus, the present
hotel capacity of 500 rooms is expected to double in the next four years,
not including development of private resort houses. The airport relocation
is necessary for traffic growth because the existing airport is seriously
restricted by surrounding terrain. In addition, its location limits the
development of some of the resort areas.
December 1973



MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Landing Fees at Class 4(a), 5(a) and 6(a) Airports
(Day)
Aircraft            Airoraft      ------------LANDING FEES------------------------------------
Gross Landing           Type             1968              1969              1970              1971              1972
Weights                          --        X$R             MeR$       Is       x-$     -r      )x$        Is -rx*
(kgs)                                            Change            Change            Change            Change
Under       1,6oo                                16      + 31      21      + 14       24     + 12       27     + 11       30
1,601 -   4,000                                40      + 40      56      + 30      73      + 22       89     + 18      105
4,001 -  10,000      Twin Otter                70      + 43     100      + 30     130      + 23     160      + 19      190
10,001 -  20,000                               120      + 87     225      + 44     325      + 31     425      + 24      525
20,001    30,000      HS 748                   175      +144     428      + 47     631      + 32      833     + 24   1,035
30,001 -  40,000                               250      + 71
40,001 -  50,000    Dm-9, Dc-6 1/              340 )   +114      726      + 42   1,034      + 30   1,342      + 23   1,650
50,001 - 6o,ooo                                460      + 58
60,001 -  70,000                               610 )   +126
70,001 -  80,000      727 1/                   775      + 78   1,380      + 30   1,792        23   2,203      + 19   2,615
80,001 -  90,000                               980      + 41
90,001 - 100,000                             1,190 )   + 16
100,001 - 125,000      707                    1,550      + 49   2,304      + 27   2,927      + 21   3,551      + 18   4,175
125,001 - 150,000                             n/a               2,754      + 39   3,827      + 28   4,901      + 22   5,975
150,001 -                                     n/a                  60                60                 60                60
(for each 1,000 kg
over 150,000)     1/
Average Increase - %                                   60                30                25                20
Cumulative Increase - %                                                 110               160               220
1/ The average charge per 1,000 kg gross weight, in 1972, for such aircraft as DC-9 and B-727, is about
35 pesos. For a B-747, it is about 55 pesos.
ne eber  - ? 






ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXIC'O
AIRPORTS DEVELOPNENT PRDJECT
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA)
Financial Position
Operating Results
1.        Revenue and expenditure accounts for- the years 1965-1973 are given
in Table 6 and are briefly summarized below for the years 1968-1973.
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972   1973
-------- ----(Mex$ million)-----
Revenues - Landing fees                45       80     139      189      251    294
- Other                       49      43       50      57       63     73
Total Revenues              94     123      189     246      314    367
W.orking expenses                      48       56       76      80      128    157
Depreciation                           19       25      94       94       97    118
Total Operating Costs       67      81      170     174      225    275
Net operating revenues                 27       42       19      72       89     92
Operating ratio - %                    71       66       90      71       72     75
2.        During the period 1968-1973, landing fee revenues, in particular,
aided by progressive tariff increases in each of the years 1969 to 1972, have
risen by over 500%. Working expenses have also risen by about 300% over the
same period. Over recent years, the operating ratio has remained fairly
steady at about 71-75%, apart from some fluctuations in 1969 and 1970, due
largely to depreciation. More realistic figures for depreciation appear
from 1970 onward, when a major book transfer of fixed asset values, from
Government to ASA, took place.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        The published accounts of ASA are deficient in the following
respects:
(a) the cost of certain maintenance carried out by SOP (minor
maintenance to runways, drainage, fixed installations) is
not charged to ASA;
(b) delays in accounting for fixed assets, and the transfers
from work in progress to particular asset accounts, cause
depreciation to be understated.
Assuming that correct accounting for the above would add 20 million pesos
annually to ASA's costs, then the operating ratio would more correctly
be about 78%, and the return on net fixed assets for 1972 and 1973 would
fall from 5.2% to about 4%.
Present Finances
4.        Summary balance sheets for ASA for the years 1965-1973 are given
in Table 7, and cash flows for the years 1968-1973 in Table 8. Brief
summary balance sheets for the years 1968-1973 are given below:
1968       1969        1970        1971       1972      1973
Assets
Liquid assets              69.4       120.7       167.5      231.3       237.9    317.4
Receivables and
inventories              58.1        44.2       49.9        76.5        88.4    100.6
Net fixed assets          601.3       686.8    1,728.7    1,680.3    1,885.4  1,875.7
Deferred assets             2.0         1.9         1.7        1.7         0.2        .5
Total Assets          730.8       853.6    1,947.8    1,989.8    2,211.9  2,294.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities         2.1         4.5       37.9        12.8        16.2     21.2
Capital                   728.7       849.1    1,909.9    1,977.0    2,195.7  2,273.0
Total capital and
liabilities          730.8      853.6    1,947.8    1,989.8    2,211.9  2,294.2
5.        The current and liquid ratios, ranging over the last four years
from 6/1-24/1 and 4/1-18/1, respectively, reflect the excellent earning
power and financial position of ASA.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.        The rather lumpy movements in fixed assets and in capital reflect
the accounting action, mainly in the years 1967 and 1970, for the transfer
of airport assets from Government to ASA. Since the incorporation of ASA in
mid-1965, the capital provided by Government, in the form of transfers of
assets (net of some transfers of property back to Government), totaled
1,800 million pesos by the end of 1973; over the same period, ASA has generated
about 900million pesos, and, after contributing 500 million pesos toward
investment, has accumulated 320 million pesos in cash and bank balances and
deposits, the remaining 80 million pesos going toward working capital, mainly
increases in receivables.
7.        From analysis of the book values of fixed assets for each airport,
it appears that there are still many deficiencies in the transfer of assets
from Government to ASA and in the transfer of completed assets from
uncompleted work accounts, resulting in an understatement of ASA's fixed
assets (roughly estimated at a minimum of 100 million pesos) and of the
annual depreciation charge.
8.        The major item in receivables, as of December 31, 1972, was a
debt of 55 million pesos owing by the nationally-owned airline, Aeromexico,
largely for landing fees.
9.        Until 1970, ASA's policy was to invest its rapidly accumulating
cash surpluses in bonds issued by National Financiera, Banco National de
Mexico and other banks, earning annual interest of 9% to 11.7%. Since 1970,
when the value of such bonds reached 147 million pesos, ASA has been directed
to deposit the bulk of its earnings with the Federal Treasury, and has sold
some of its holdings in bonds to help finance investment in airport
equipment and improvements. At the end of 1972, the value of bonds held
reduced to 74 million pesos, while the balance held by the Federal Treasury
rose to 144 million pesos. No interest is paid to ASA on this balance,
which thus represents an annual income to the Federal Government of about
15 million pesos. The breakdown of its cash surplus for 1973 is not yet
available.
May 1974






ANNEX 9
Page 1
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEOPMH2T PROJECT
Notes Regarding Current Landing Fees
1.        In 1969, airport tariffs were studied by staff of SCT; resulting
from this study, by a Decree of August 9, 1969, new airport user charges
(landing fees, aircraft parking, etc.) were established, replacing those
laid down in 1961.
2.        Briefly, the decree established, for the three major classes of
airports, scales of landing fees, which increased progressively in 1969,
1970, 1971 and 1972 (these are given in Annex 7). The landing feesascale
for the three minor classes of airports remained fixed at that established
for 1969. Revised charges were also fixed for night landings, aircraft
parking and use of telescopic passageways.
3.        Due to the absence of adequate cost information, the new charges
were not based on costs, except in a very general way -- i.e., by relating
ASA's total costs to total revenues. The main criterion used was a compari-
son with landing fees charged by airports in 43 other countries. This
showed that, for a Douglas DC-9, 27 of the 43 countries charged higher fees,
while for a Boeing 707, 19 out of 41 countries charged higher fees -
therefore Mexico was quite justified in raising its charges. The graduated
scales were intended to raise ASA's revenues sufficiently to cover all "real"
costs by 1972.
4.        "Real" costs were calculated as follows:
(a)  operating costs, based on ASA's 1968 costs, and adjusted
yearly thereafter;
(b)  depreciation, calculated at a rate of 5. on assumed gross
fixed asset values; plus
(c) an assumed cost of maintenance, also calculated as 5% on
the fixed assets value.
5.        In the review of this study, now being carried out by SCT:
(a) above should be based on ASA's 1973 costs, reflecting not only
the general wage award of September 1973, but also the further
award of January 1974;



AN2 9
Page 2
(b) above should reflect current fixed asset values and make some
provision for the effect of future investment over the next
four or five years;
regarding (c) above, from information received concerning mainte-
nance carried out by SOP, the costs as calculated by SCT appear
excessive. They should be reviewed by examining more closely
the actual records of SOP airport maintenance costs over the last
four years.
6.        Parts (a), (b) and (c) above were communicated to SCT.
December 1973



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MEXICO
AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation Assumptions for Forecast Revenues and Expenses
I. Project Airports Only
1.        Operating Revenues
A. Landing Fees
(a) Scheduled Carriers: current landing fee applied to forecast
landings, with 20% increase in the we~il-At&gQry of aircraft
expected in 1977.
(b) Private: applied average fees on ascending scale PS25/1973,
PS 30jl974, PS40/1975, PS50/1976 through 1985, to landings.
(c) Commercial Other: same as paragraph LA(b) as above.
B. Hangar Fees and Plane Parking. Percentage change in yearly forecast
',chedule Carrier landings, used to compute yearly revenue from 1972 (1973-1985).
C. Fuel ThroughLput Charges. Same as paragraph 1B above.
D. Car Parking Fees. Percentage change in forecast   passenger  activity
used to compute yearly revenue from 1972 (1973-1985).
FE.       (a)  Car Rental Fees                        )
(b)  Space Rentals                         )  Lumped together since
)   there was not enough
(c)  Concessions - bars and restaurants  )   information for individual
)   items.  Calculation same
(d)  Concessions - general                 )   as paragraph 1D above.
F. Miscellaneous.  Calculation same as for paragraph 1D above.
G. Overall increase of 15% on all items B-F  in 1977 when all new project air-
vorts in oDeration.
Operating Costs
A. ASA Airports
(a)  Labor:  calculated costs for 1973 as 20% more than 1972  and for
T974 as 30% more than 1972. Fiscal years 1975 through 1985 were
calculated at a 2% increase per year.



ANNEX 10
Page 2-
(b) Materials: calculated costs for 1973 as 10% more than 1972,
and for 1974 as 10% more than 1973. Fiscal years 1975 through
1980 were calculated at a 2% increase per year.
B. Non-ASA Airorts. Since ASA did not have available arn past years revenue
and cost data for Guaymas, Minatitlan, Los Mochis, and Poza Rica, costs and
revenues (except landing fee revenue) for FY 1976 through 1980 were based on
forecast calculations for Tapachula as follows:
(a) Guaymas - use same data as Tapachula
(b) Minatitlan - add 25% to Tapachula data
(c)  Los Mochis - add 25% to Tapachula data
(d) Poza Rica - reduce by 25% Tapachula data
C.  Services.  Calculated same as for paragraph 2A(b) ibove.
3.        ASA Overhead
Same calculation as for paragraph 2A(a) above.
4.        Other Costs
Costs incurred by the Secretariat of Public Works for certain heavy
maintenance, grubbing and brush clearing plus a share of SOP   overhead have
been added to costs for following airports through FY 1976:
Campeche
Tapachula
Tuxtla
Villa Hermosa
As the new airports come into use, it is assumed that none of this type of work
wilL be necessary for at least the next five (5) years.
5.        Depreciation
Assumed 5% per annum on cost of new airports (exclusive of land)
beginning the year after completion.
TI. ASA as a Whole
1.        Total Revenues
With 1974 revised budget figure as a base, took into account:



ANNEX 10
Page 3-
(a)  assumed annual traffic increases of 6% in years 1975-1978,
5<% in years 1979-1981 and 5% in years 1982-1985;
(b) the effect of the proposed tariff increases as in I.lA.(Aa)
above; and
(c) the additional revenues generated by the project airports.
2.        Expenses
(a) Labor: as in I.2.A.(a) above;
(b)  Materials and Services: as in I.2.A.(b) above;
(c)  SOP Maintenance: current annual level of costs, plus a share
of SOP overheads, increased annually by 2%;
(d)  Depreciation: increased in proportion to new investment.
Dece.mber 1973






IBRD -10803
r                                    =                                                       O,
9LA'\2                       9T< -    ,   .,j:; s.'  i;D,''.= .,                             :        '    ',:.fi.       :.;  A j              t '                               ;-:              :02N:    9f:;:
,S0L; '  A;                                                                                a   = oAR;.4Wi::00:|Sil; 0J:;.t;;0    ::2:                         ::: 0&  U . -            ; 3.   A.     ;Q; Ctii3;050.;;::tU;0iS7 0i  A;2:::::;;55id
N                                                   I                  pAlo                   000LYPLPOR.O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lcaio                            o   roosdaipot
\)~~~~~~ Cr810                                                                                                                                      //clA<r  ie;     s                          
\  CAd/F           6;                                                \         s w *                         S          > X       : ;                                                                 O             MEXIC
PR O  OE  AIRPORTS
12 0                    n EoS0N  AtoIRPRT                -
LONG RANGE ~ ~ ~ ~            ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~         ~          AROT  EEOPETPRJC
MEDIUM RANGE 
-    TOLL ROADS                                        0~~~'*  Al08
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR I ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LtZ;twofet;tCH LPANG NGTw />L 1'  _0   0IEPLi-<E .
O 100             200      300        400      500 e>.d*    e-9-  
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                          '                                                                                             F
LONG RANGE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     H NUA
TOLLROADS                                              ConC                                                                                                                                                       .        l *      J/r
-OTIIERMALN   ROADS  ~ ~        ~         ~          ~        ~         ~                  L~~   o,,,o.,            L01100000O    -~~~~~~~~  00s,                0       0A        A      ,.A~~~~






IBRD-10804
ID?  I                                                                                                                                                      0            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAN4UARY 197
> S    UN !UNITED STATES                                                                                                     .f
M F-Xl C 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 00
oo ~~~~~~~~PRaPOSED MEXICOSipr 
P -FIC~~MEIC
20 PoACFIC                       - A/RPOR                                           AIRPORT  DEVELOPPMENT PROJECT 
GENERAL PLAN
--InornoooIoo Booodooo  1O                                                                                  
Th, Rdff fA,-       -   sdp Jo hO                                                                                                                                                                                                       PooedRa 
imply -ldilmd!s -6tn hy -,-, b, Rlb,V
W     IHd -00-
47,01)                                                                                                                             LOCA-loN PLAN
-      eROPERTf  LJr_   _                                                                                                  _ _
PERIMETER  ROAD
300
5 7~II7N NETIE N 10*' 8 __   - RU'NWAY       01-19          Z100Y 4               TRU-1_A  E ' -  I0Doom                            21
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___                                                     S , ''_,                                          ;~o                                            00 0  w
APOOOIO    0,100210~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
09000 1  00100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 700
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1---                            _         == _ _ 1,IoR       -             -.--I -;2,0                                                                  2'~_'-''' -4.0 
K    -      g                     ' E   ' '                                              t   t    ;             -
PROPERTY0 LINE
- -                                               @,&sd AIRPORT OF MINATITLAN, VERACRUZ
0r~O                                          Typical Plan  of  Project Airports
.=  \,                                            (Project Shown  in Red)
0   100  009      400
METERS
To Co.o0-o-l-



