Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 24407
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25570)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.2 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Rural Development 2
Country Department 15
Africa Region
T This doculment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange RateE ffective March 11, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
r'P A V-rn, I nn =  TT    nnn1 
US$ 1.00 =  CFAF 748.67
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  CountryAs sistanceSt rategy
CFA Franc            Currency of the West African Monetary Union
CMDT                 Malian Cotton Development Company (CompagnieMal iennede
DIveloppement des Textiles)
CNU                  National Agricultural Research User Committee (Commission Nationale des
Utilisateurs des Resultats de la Recherche)
CNRA                 National Agricultural Research Council (ConseilN ationalde la Recherche
Agricole)
CRRA                 Regional Center of Agricultural Research (Centre Regional dela Recherche
Agr.4 o.)
CRU                  Regional User Committee (Comite Regional des Utilisateurs)
EPCST                Etablissement Public d Cdractere Scien-afique et Th iogique
IER                  Institute of Rural Economy (Institut d' Economie Rurale)
ON                   Ojpfce du Niger
PNRA                 National Agricultural Research project
(Projet National de la Recherche Agricole)
PNVA                 National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme Nationalde
Vulgarisation Agricole)
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
ViceP resident:  Callisto E. Madavo
Tl,.ont-r.      A Tl.AA ('rain
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:    Agadiou Dama



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
NATIONAL AGRICULTU-KAL RESEARCHl PROJECCT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Hrunuipal aiiLoUui  LacR  n                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
?7 Rknkc snd Rnrrnwer Perfnrmnnice                                                    0
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   ii
10. Additional Information                                                           12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 17
Ann-ex 4. Baok Tnptc                                                                 1Q
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                22
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Project Completion Report                             23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
ine performance of tneir oiiiciai uuties. its content maylHUL no                     UbV Ur-W.se disclosed
Iwithout World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001751                                       proiect           RESEARCH
Iu, Ta  Leadr- . A noinu                                  IL, rz"it: A.:'&Ž -
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        |Report Date: J     2. ., 02
1. Project Data
Name: AG. RESEARCH                                    L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25570
CounrryiDepartment: IAl.LI                                                Reg.on: .ca     iona: Offi
Sector/subsector: AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   27-02-90                                Effective: 05-11-94            10-11-94
Appraisal:  25-03-93                                  MTR: 31-12-97               28-11-97
Approval:  16-12-93                                 Closing: 31-12-2001          31-12-2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/IER / CNRA
Other Partners: USAID, Dutch Cooperation, French Cooperation, Swiss Cooperation and
Canadian Cooperation
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo                        V. K. Jaycox
CountryhManner.nO     A. David Craig                            Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                         Salah Darghouth
Team- Leader at .tC   Ag-a;-u n                                 Jan w--- ei,enberg
I C(Ufl .LJI44C  .A  £ t .  n5a_nJs  -                            _ A-.-  -  ,
ICR Primary Author:   Agadiou Dama
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory,U= Unsatisfactory,H L=HighlyLik ely, L=Likely,UN =Unlikely,H UN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
In.itutinnal Develnnment Imnact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
auanliti, nt Sn,r,*                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The QAG rating for Quality at Entry wasmargina lly satisfactory. The project document system doesno tallowfor
qualified ratings, hence a vatisfactory rating was used.
The ICR team would have preferred to rate the vroiect's outcome mareinallv satisfactory, but this rating is not
available.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to implement the first six-year phase of the Strategic Plan for National
Agricultural Research. The principal objective of this Plan was to ensure that adequate technology will
herAme availahle to farmers as a means to increase a¢Tcultural growth and to reverse the decline in
productive capacity of the natural resource base. The project aimed at improving the performance of the
JAa,Jt,na. M-C   h l Les.O-tfvh sn g ea, o..h.u  ^An u..pntl rm e  -^ .Prnne,… qwi…U   repepuan…-  anti
accountability for results through institutional reforms. In view of the persistent limitations in the
availability- of reso-urces, tue project was to help focus the national research effort. on the priorities set Ou
in the Strategic Plan for Agricultural Research. It was therefore to emphasize the testing of technologies
elsewhere, expanding farmer-participatory research and move faster towards on-farm testing, and seek
regional collaboration in adapting promising technologies to local circumstances.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were judged pertinent throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following four components:
a. Institutional Development - (i) transform the National Agricultural Research Council (Conseil
National de la Recherche Agricole, CNRA) into an entity, which integrates user representatives and
through which all official funding for agricultural research is coordinated and screened; (ii) support the
transfornation of National Agricultural Research Institute (Institut d'Economie Rurale, IER) into an
autonomous institution with an independent Board of Directors, and reorganize and strengthen it; and
(iii) regionali7e research to brina it closer to its users
b. Technology Transfer and User Participation - (i) develop interactive processes between farmers,
-vte-;ion agents and rpas-crnh,r thrmiunh form. r nartipnr,atin iin se-ftincr rpesercp-h o,tha nand
evaluating its results, to ensure research relevance and to accelerate the dissemination of research
resulit; and (ii) create  puiot UsVeL Reserch11 - VLLU UUU wUhL i W rIL e LUSrLc uLses klIulb adU
processors) will contract for specific research topics of interest to them
c. Research Program Implementation and Management - (i) improve research quality and relevance
through improved research programning, monitoring and evaluation methods and procedures,
characterized by users' participation; (ii) provide research operating funds and introduce research
contracting for the implementation of the research programs; (iii) develop a scientific information,
publication and documentation unit at IER; and (iv) strengthen external linkages and support the
participation of Malian institutions and scientists in regional and international collaborative research
programs
d. Reqniirce lDevelonment and Managrement - (i) imnr^ve and strengthen exeriment station devel^pment
and management; (ii) design and implement a management information, accounting and cost accounting
sys+m; (i;i) stengthen h-.- eso .ws development and r.agement, provide inoun...,
and (iv) rehabilitate and renew research experiment station and equipment.
The project was in conformity with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and sought to address
rural poverty by providing farmers with new technologies that would help increase agricultural production
and revenues. Project design had several strong elements: it was in conformity with the National Strategic
Plan for Agricultural Research, it placed the main emphasis on institutional development (strengthening
research management and coordination of all official funding for agricultural research), it supported the
autonomy of EER through the introduction of an autonomous board and statutes defining career paths and
salary structure, and it introduced accountability both through the introduction of research contracting
-2 -



mechanisms and through increased user participation in defining and evaluating results. The project
Aesig'I .o.lIajul mAUL CU.1.g was iLt .ItHIIu LU h:LL i LULULUtUAU L UdLlr. LU oVVe-l4 LVL sL sVriV LrlU11U.. Jul
hindsight, the design team may not have satisfactorily evaluated Government's commitment to the
insttutionai changes sougnt oy tne project.
3.4 AD.C..-.J
a. *V ALC VSOC  .Uf&VlClO
The project was not redesigned during implementation.
3.5 Quality atEntry:
*M   -s  11   -  -                                1_,:I_  -   A      _                 -._1A _\ -
Tlihe q-uauLy at e-utry wa Juudge marginyaly vugaJactquy by a QualityssurdnUIe uroup twtiu) panel s
draft report (October 1, 1999). The design of the project was considered satisfactory overall. The QAG
panel wrote that the project was presented to the Board because Bank management had become impatient
with the delays - four years of project preparation - and decided to move ahead when an opportunity to do
so presented itself, despite the consequent need for conditions of effectiveness for the Credit. Some of the
issues that afterwards delayed project implementation (adoption of the revised statutes, funding for
increased salaries, transfer of land titles to IER) would have emerged earlier if the Bank had insisted on
basic organizational and administrative arrangements being in place at the time of Credit approval. The
ICR team concurs with this evaluation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Tne project achieved its global oDjective of improving the performance of the nationai agricuiturai research
system. The project achieved fundamental changes in the structure and management of research, increased
user participation and external reviews of the quality of ongoing and proposed research activities. There
were, however, some serious delays in project implementation that negatively impacted on the strengthening
of human resource management, financial management and monitoring and evaluation remain weak.
Proiect outcomei st hereforer ated marginally satisfactory.
Coherence of national research activities was greatlv imnroved thmirh the strengthening of MNRA_ which
is now responsible for the preparation, implementation and monitoring of all national agricultural research
"ro. w  , snA thnirnuh tA_avnniial PvtP.rn!l r-,tAws of t+1k  -rear  progrs. Tn 2)nnl ts-  - of TPD
was changed from an ill-suited administrative statute to that of a public research and technology
ebsL4LJUbUU ent (EtablJi.ssemert XUUCllc U CaraUcteFre 0E3Le1nYujquV CA 1TUr1r15wolgique, Er, I). i lm pruviude
IER with management autonomy and enabled it to start strengthening financial and administrative, and
human resource management. Prior to the change in statute, !ER had already translated the priorities
established in the national agricultural research master plan into better focussed research programs with
emphasis on regional priorities and increased involvement of beneficiaries in the formulation of research
programs and their monitoring. Collaboration between research and its natural partners (extension,
producer organizations, NGOs) was strengthened through the creation of research user committees, regular
regional technical review meetings, and the establishment of a research fund managed by the research user
committees which permit ted these to contract out research activities with LER that were a priority to them.
In addition, a new program that gave emnhasis to gender issues in agricultural develonment was added.
Regional collaboration was substantially strengthened through the project. Twelve out of the sixteen
research ,progrms are now ,v exec1ted in collahnvatrwm w,ith regional an.d in.ternati-onal agulua research
organizations in adapting promising technologies to local circumstances. These regional partnerships have
aiso euillhue  he Lu quiuLy of reseach i[ ugli uiipiuveu inUOIiiiauun excualuges.
-3-



4.2 Outputs by components:
I.     The Institutional Development ComDonent is rated satisfactorv. All nlanned reformq were
implemented as planned, but with long delays. CNRA acquired the status in 2001 of an agency that is
rlirpr'tlu rp,v,rtina tn tie Milnkctru nf P,l,rva flvYeupinmPint anAd, hQcQ ,nainty,-aint o*i,^"^rsm-, TIv q-rA is
composed of representatives of the ministries for rural development, finance, education, and environment,
as weh'L as rMeppesentati-Yes r.om 'KTaLun& Aic'r' D-----Wh TT--Cn- u.e Cmoso     raYnl
03 W~ 03 ~jJi~~I1LLLV~ILWIJII 11a0LUCJLL r'LAl%U1LLLI4a1 X%V049ML. LJIJV l.-AJfLLULUCL IkUUFFUfniasurs ivaiunLCaUe
des Utilisateurs des Resultats de la Recherche, CNU), the private sector, NGOs, and the donor
comimumi-y. Through its Executive Secreiariat and its tmree committees (scientific, finance and users),
CNRA has become the focal point for all publicly funded agricultural research planning, preparation,
implementation (financing) and follow-up. Under this setup, the needs of end-users have been better taken
into account. This was further strengthened with the creation of a user fund that gave beneficiary groups
the financial means to steer research into directions that were a priority to farmers. In 1997, a system of
research contracts for all donor funded agricultural research was introduced, which improved the technical
content of research proposal and the allocation of scarce resources over the different research activities.
Research programming was further improved through the periodic review of the research nroramms by
CNRA's technical committee, assisted by external research experts. The monitoring and evaluation of
recearch however remains relativelv weak aq thic tnnl iC nnt ni,ffir.intlv APvAlnnfrl tn avaIlute tlhe imr,.A
of new technologies at the farm level.
The statute of LER was changed in 2001 to that of EPST, which better fits the needs of a research institute.
Tlhs change allowed uhe insttutUon to have inc1rasedd autonomy in financial and numan resource
management. It also allowed IER to pay salaries that were higher than regular civil service salaries under
the old -statute. Tne management structure of IER was reviewed and changed. A Board of Directors was
created, whose members include representatives of user organizations, as well as three new departments
(research, technical support and finance). The Director General's office was strengthened with the creation
of three new services: human resources management, internal audit, and documentation, information and
publication. As planned, an evaluation of all research and technical support staff was carried out. This
enabled LER to devise a targeted training program and assign staff to appropriate pay grades. The change
in statute was not immediately financially supported by the Government and led to problems in salary
pavments and the departure of few researchers
Research management w as decentralized tn the aeonal level: 8iA Regol Agr-cu.ii- Re--eh Centers(
Centres Regionaux de Recherche Agricole, CRRA) were created. As at the central level, representatives
of uer Urganizations, NGs and Go-v-ermeni agencies were represented in the regionai research panei.
This allowed for improved coordination, management and monitoring of research programs at the regional
level. As a result, 12 research projects were added to the research planning (including research on rice
blight, sugar peas, dah and water melons). In addition, it forced researchers to improve the quality of their
research proposals in order to obtain funding. The trend towards improvements in quality of research
proposals was confirmed by the ti-annual extemal reviews and the decline in the rejection rate of research
proposals (from 80 percent in 1995 to 30 percent in 2001).
II.    The Technology Transfer and User Participation Component is rated satisfactory. As part of
thi inctitu tininal eirpngrt1hrnin  of T1'n121nhnrn,tnin wiuth tlh, Adiffe+t "-a-.- was
Six Regional User Comitees (Commision.Regionale des Utilisateurs, CRU) and the CNU were established
as planned, and supported by te project. Members of these comittees recei-ved trig, and a research
fund was created to enable the CRUs to define priority research activities based on the expressed needs of
their constituents. Thne- functioning of these committees was adjusted after the mid-term review to improve
-4 -



their representativeness and increase their impact on research programming. Their roles in research priority
setting were clarified, turnover of membership of the CRUs was encouraged to allow for fresh ideas and
improved training was provided. Moreover, introduction of regional research panels and the training of
research staff in participatory research have helped improve the relevance of research executed at the
regional level.
The activities foreseen under the pilot user research fund were only partially implemented. The fund was
--a:mda prw+;A   aei&.ev.,.+I, the --e s_ to c-,A  u . h'p+. -eea-c a+: ,+:e- +U__ el-vs or
a" i~  LUJ.V  &  JW 1U&r   wlil I4l'. I11"aj4  IAJ %.a&y %JULL DUALL1Q  kJILVLL3F AWVa41L'  a%A1 V1L&V0 ULJ.LVII L  L LV
under contract for them. The main weaknesses were (i) the difficulty for research staff to translate the
neeus ol users inw touaubu proposals; andu (i) ute lacK oI toois W assist beneflciaries m planning,
implementing and monitoring research activities. Eventually, this led to a much lower than planned
utilization of the user fund. Even so, 12 research projects for a total of CFA Franc 49.7 million were
executed. This represents only about twenty percent of the original fund (US$550,000). The impact on the
rating of the overall component is minor, because this was a pilot activity.
Collaboration with other development partners (extension services, other donor funded projects and NGOs)
was strengthened. The emphasis was placed on trials in farmers' fields. Joint missions were carried out
with extension services (the National Agricultural Extension Program, PNVA, the Malian Cotton
Develonment Comnanv. CMDT; the Office du Niger- 0N_ etC-) to follow-up on issue of mutual interest
LER also carried out applied research on a contractual basis with the extension services (cotton, research
devaIniemmpnt et" )  nA TandIp2 m nrnuuliA wPmi rwegmilar r..on t   r8e io for extni  . T'hcs
collaboration opened channels of communication that enabled IER to respond more effectively to problems
encountered uy fa-,n,ers anu otheu user Us0 ofL LLULUIJ reseachW. A U *OWI o1 l20 UnW  LULUUV1Ug1oV  Were
introduced by EER, of which 110 were disseminated by the extension services and were adopted to different
degrees by farmers (see Annex 3 for some illustrative adoption rates). Thne tecinologies were mainly
focussed on reducing the risks from climatic change, improving production (rice, fruits and vegetables, and
poultry) and quality of crops intended for transformation (cotton, corn, honey). Adoption rates were
closely linked to potential income increases, input requirements (labor and non-labor inputs) and
availability, access to credit, and risk of crop failure. The inadequate funding by Government of the state
extension service, after the closing of the credit supporting the PNVA, was also a limiting factor in making
farmers aware of new technologies.
III.   The Research Program Implementation and Management Component is rated satisfactory.
The creation nf a Riptntifip DepvPrtmPnt at ER allowed the rnodernFm,tin of frasx-rlh rsa sgement Th,jc,
were developed and adopted, which allowed for better programming and implementation of research
da1Vl1I1s as weVIl ad U1yiuv-u YUA1jJU1LLjVU 01 1-vVal4il JULpUW. 1rn-vil'ivU ilbU mudlil4v IllUL0 lrb1UUlblVV IU
the needs of users through the integration of the CRU/CNUs into the planning process. The adoption of the
research master plan and its subsequent revision to regional conditions have also increased the
responsiveness of research to local needs. The training provided by the project strengthened the technical
capacities of researchers and support staff in several areas: station management, research proposal
formulation, participatory research, research programming, inclusion of gender issues in research, writing
up and publishing of research results, and technical expertise in several research areas. Putting research on
a contractual basis also improved the quality of research proposals and publication of results. All 16
research programs of IER were evaluated both internally by committees including users and externally by a
nanel of indenendent experts. These evaluations were instrimental in focussing research activities on the
priorities identified in the master plan (both national and revised regional plans). Most research staff was
.ranefo A  .L fr tflfnlt>o   te% *lsL  absL.aan  n s A tAta  (ale*fl rs fo:lk   t% T  of - I.e 0Z-4t*e  pMl o 1 a ).  Ah1ese
regional based reseachers have been able to produce significant adaptive research results (adaption of
prorising ne-w vIeuies, uie-uy guiueliues for UivCsLoCK, new - uuoer varieties, etc.). Research resuits were
- 5 -



systematically published in EER's annual reports (six during the project), research bulletins (over 400) and
4r-, sc; -44             'M-none  ~,  -rnn  f a      .1-n, e  ollnna  F.- mn'-A.mA+-    o f
Live sientif pu.vnlca1t.na.  - U c-.ation of a da'abase has alo a'low- ed fo. L-.fl0L a v aUiUuy o
research results and programs under implementation, and constitute an important tool for the dissemination
of research. Thvie project also created a national research network through the fornalization of parnerships
between IER and other research institutes in the country.
IV.    The Resource Development and Management Component is rated unsatisfactory, despite
impressive progress obtained in several areas. The poor implementation of the component is mainly the
result ofd elays ino btaining the land titles, less than expected support from other donors, lack of adequately
trained financial personnel, weak internal financial management capacity and lack of a staff career
development plan.
IV.a.  Management of Research Tnfrastructure and Fciuinment. The new organi7ational setup of LFR
separates the roles of research and support to research (infrastructure management). The six directors of
the regional ,'ntnrs  eno onger dectly involved in research, but are instead solely responsible 1.-t
management of the infrastructure used by researchers, financial and administrative management. IER also
obtained tuu Lu he land of .41 a U rUVdLeaU1 ldAAciliuVs 4u UaVnUd dve U U a  eLr. pInii foI LUUJ UrVr1UPUVlnL IMs
master plan was only partially carried out because of (i) lengthy delays in obtaining the land titles, which
were a condition of disbursement for these investments; and (ii) much less than expected donor support,
which led to inadequate funds being available to carry out the planned activities (rehabilitation of
laboratories and replacement of old equipment were thus not done). Also, not all station managers are
properly trained to adequately manage the land under their responsibility (rotation, homogenous
preparation, etc.). Funding for infrastructure maintenance was also inadequate, in part because not all
donors supported this activity. Several donors only provided funding for research itself and not for the
associated maintenance costs. The lack of donor support for maintenance required a reallocation of the
IDA credit to increase funding for maintenance.
.b.   Financial Mancr-ment. Financial mnnnagmpent was PnhAnce  w ith the intrduction of a naw
system that allowed for improved analysis of expenditures through greater coding flexibility. In addition,
_^e"see  AAs6AV _A-1A wereAAI -.A-A -_1-4 on +1kA AX.- A;A   -- _AAAAAAUAAL_--1 AAAAA_
1   _ v UIL'. VLVsw AAL[ &A%V UVCAI  VJ_LlU 1~rU1U113  Ult1 uaQw;J VL  %JA *u1ULwL.WL. w   Ua'alal tLal Iii i1UVlVIL
was decentralized to the regional level and the process of work programming and budgeting greatly
strengtened. Tne rumaining weaknesses are uae lack of adequately trained personnei and the poor internal
audit capacity. The 2000 audit of IER's statement of expenditures underscored this by raising questions
regarding the appropriateness of recorded transactions.
IV.c. Human Resource Management. Much progress has been achieved. Descriptions of aUl positions at
LER have been done. AU research personnel was tested and assigned to appropriate grades, and a staff
training plan was designed and implemented. A database was created with information on all staff. The
status of all personnel was changed from civil servant to that of employee of a nublic entemnrise- which
allowed for greater flexibility in remuneration and increased incentives for qualified research and support
staff to stay at TR.R  S-rini^us .wpr-Anepm   were the Ian-rk of Aplovpl.rmwpnt of a career pln a" and 1.
non-compliance by EER management of the newly adopted staff manual.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
iThLe Staff Apprai . RyepoJw  1SAPt%i) n4;nt iitWIXAE U  ME11111 ELC01 111 Ja  JIe Moo   iav of .L1ui wI LUfo the pUeJVL4.
It merely quoted a Bank report from 1981 and stated that similar projects in other countries had an
estunmateU rate oi retum exceewng '40 percent. EiR. nas cameu out several studies to measure the impact of
new technologies on farm household income and overall production. The studies are based on small
samples, which make it very difficult to extrapolate the results. It is also difficult to measure to what
- 6 -



extent improved productivity is due to research or extension.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
ThL SAPR didl nnt etimatp. a fi1nqnci1 r2tp nf rmtnrn either No infnrmatinn ie avai1ah1 tn stirate onne nr
altematives measures, such as improved cost efficiency. As was common at the time of project
n       rnn.n  w. n-r   -Aq-A  lk., -A '4l.flnIr +1-.~.An.n+a
p±99a.Laun, uo p&a. ne.ters we eva% bdefined by which toJ aLta U.LUO LflLflUABtS.
4. .a              ........raldvcivp   ...p.at:..
The project's institutional development impact is rated modest. IER and CNRA have been greatly
sUtrgtUheneU UUt ghI Uthe poUJecL. TUh change  satut Ul o  uER w lr,the V1WaUUJ 1-- V--'- inLcUrseu
user input in the formulation of research programs and the start of research on a contractual basis with
output indicators, are significant and in many ways irreversible improvements. Researcn has become
increasingly demand driven and relevant to the ultimate users. Several weaknesses remain, such as
financial management and monitoring and evaluation. The overall rating is therefore conservative.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5J.S 1 Factors 0  the cotro.l Of  U*U5*LII* or ,,-.plemett;, .g age.c,3
Two main factors that were outside Govemment's control, affected project implementation. The first was
UlUV UreVUuduUn oi Uis -XI1 CP r1A Prc inI 1 77-t. IL OISXUiI%iUan  Ly iLncreVdVU tI L%,VL VI ofLtL pIUJV^L LU 1LCa C'LU1r.Ii4y
terms and put increased pressure on Govemment to increase its counterpart contribution at a time when
Govemment revenues were under severe pressure due to extremely iow prices for cotton, which is the
country's main foreign exchange earner. The second, was the lower than expected contribution by other
donors: out of the US$68.1 million expected, only US$19.2 million were eventually received. The
significant reduction in finincial support led to the decision to: (i) not rehabilitate laboratories and replace
equipment, and even with the delays in obtaining title to land, insufficient funds were available to execute
the infrastructure rehabilitation program (US$34.4 million less); and (ii) cut the funding for research
activities (including four programs in their entirety; US$21.0 million less). The impact on the institutional
reforms nlanned under the proiect was limited; these cuts will, however, have an irnpact on future research
activities, as the infrastructure will be in increasing need of rehabilitation. An important cause for the
redrlAceA Ann-r finAinc wn: n nrnfemin. anA iinndnninAd rhantp in thpir en.intru aceietani -ftratiou
5.2 Factors genera a1y subjiect to government cont.ro:
Key factors include frequent turnover of decisionmakers, insufficient budget allocations (especially for
extenLIon)11, UlIay s  inI Moutluf"lW  ILLSJLIlWs and .IL unila-f r'   iSuLI.IUJLn si of wu
Sotuba Regional Research Center.
Turnover. During the six years of project implementation, there was a tremendous turnover of key
decision makers: three different ministers, three different secretary generals and three different directors
general of IER. This rapid turnover of decisionmakers had a seriously negative impact on project
implementation as decisions were frequently deferred and decisionmakers operated in a survival mode and
refused to make politically inexpedient decisions (e.g. land titles for research centers and stations).
Budget Allocations. Following the closure of the PNVA in 1998, Government failed to provide sufficient
operating funds to continue extension activities. This had a negative impact on the timely introduction of
newi tp4-hnnlnriv to f2rmeum  In MdAitinin rYnvPrnmrnnt fni]PA tn provM_e in a tinmlu m,nnpr the rI.P,raA
budget for the increased salaries following the adoption of the change in statute of IER and its research
SuI. gLis WU LU Ue'.   UG1- aLUL Ul over. V1auLIr.
-7 -



Adoption of Institutional Reforms. As a result of the turnover of decisionmakers, the adoption of key
institutional reforms was delayed by almost four years. This was an issue repeatedly brought up by Bank
supervision missions but did not lead to a suspension because it was felt that it would endanger the
substantial progress made in other areas, such as research programming and implementation.
Sotuba Repional Research Center. The Government expropriated 800 ha (out of a total of 1,050) from
the Sotuba Regional Research Center to be used for urban development. This caused the displacement of
several research nrorarms (livestock- sorghum- camr) and the need tn enrclAe the remrsinina land qt hicrh
cost (FCFA 400 million or US$0.55 million equivalent) to prevent further urban encroachment. The
AprnirwiAotnti Of the land haA noit been Adi,...c A v.tl a-ny, of  . Aonor  -M- --o to +1e So..-b
Regional Research Center.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
P1 fIUaruw J,ir.uag,ement.  J  r ea rLa1I4UsU a 1i4iU ar-a of WVeaLues dL I1. ULUULIUL ULU pLrject
implementation period and caused the Bank to threaten to suspend disbursements. Financial management
received attention only late in the project, foliowing repeated weaknesses identified in audit reports.  A
new computerized financial management system was installed and 1ER staff received training from an
outside accounting firm, which also temporarily took over bookkeeping activities at IER. At the end of one
year of training, only few staff could use the software.
Procurement. A routine ex-post review of the compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures
identified several weaknesses related to proper filing of documentation evidence, which makes it difficult to
ascertain whether procedures were properly complied with. A review of Statements of Expenditures
showed that irregularities may have taken place in some instances. Staff subsequently received training in
dr2uino un nprerement'nIpnRp nrnner dnmirni-nt filincr _nd in rPsnPrtina Raninr ,,rn mrpm.ept nrmpAimcp in
particular as they relate to local shopping. The 2001 audit report is to focus on this issue, but the results
W,vere noit a-vaau. il U-A-AJU, tlfltt ii.- tflL.t.I
were ot vble    Wwm to beinlued in'e ICAR_
numan Resource Management. iER's failure to implement the career development pian for its staf,
despite the testing of all research staff and the elaboration and implementation of a training manual, and its
non observance of its personnel manual, have contributed to some turnover, as has Government's delayed
funding for the salaries. Staffing is only slightly higher than the appraisal targets and substantial
reductions have been achieved: e.g. LER employed 265 researchers at appraisal and 158 at present (129
researchers are opertional and 29 are enrolled atdi fferent universities) versus a target of 140.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Indicators were identified at appraisal. but were never qnantified after
project start-up. Instead, new indicators were proposed and adopted after the project's mid-term review.
lie Lawlt fnr i-negfirolmionce ^f mnitrifino ar%A aah- fl_t N0 xLyiti t1A 1 ns., 1- ma a1-1.  _;--,.o --AL
IER, neither paying much attention to it.  Also, no methodology was developed during project
implemenUaiUon. Sotwar,e wab installed towardU ,te end of the project which allOWeu for tie tracking of
research activities. It was, however, too late to properly evaluate project outputs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appmisai project costs were estimatea at U i i 1.7 miiiion; at project compietion actuai project costs
are estimated at US$56.6 million. IDA's actual contribution to the project's costs was US$19.5 million
versus US$20.0 million estimated at appraisal; Government's actual contribution was US$17.7 million
versus US$17.9 million estimated. Government's contribution expressed in local currency was, however,
significantly higher. As mentioned above, donor contributions were substantially lower than estimated at
- 8-



appraisal. Of the planned contribution of US$68.1 million, only US$19.2 million was actually provided.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Ratnonale for st<stainabiiiy rating:
The SAR lacked a definition of sustainability and also did not define a timeframe in which it would have to
be achieved. For purposes of the ICR, sustainabiity is defined from an institutionai perspective and tne
outcome is rated likely. Financial sustainability was not expected to be achieved after this first six-year
phase.
The project contributed significantly to the institutional strengthening of EER and CNRA. IER is now a
much stronger institute, where research and management are separated, research staff is almost all
regionalized, as are programs and decisionmaking; the other development partners (producer organizations,
NGOs, other government agencies, and development Droiects) are included in the setting of research
priorities; and increased professionalism of research staff through training and assistance in reviewing
resedrrh nrnnnqqls All this has led to an increqqe in the n,inlitv of the research nromXm- and in the ninmher
of technologies adopted by producers. In the case of CNRA, this has become an autonomous agency which
ha a   =     dram-r cafa;ty to ..-5v rfsmlh n lihy and nnnlrnn.
T_ .t _ 1___ ._  I_-1_____LLs ___             .1_   _-_     __     _L__r__          ___
In the luog-Lerm, finncalQu sustalbililLy Wml U bought by havig beneca  USZe  o1 research pay for
programs that interest them directly, while the government would continue to provide funding for strategic
research with a public interest purpose (e.g. for increased food security). Overhead costs of iE R would be
included in the cost of the specific research, which would avoid that insufficient funds are available for
infrastructure maintenance. EER has already made significant progress in securing an increasing share of
revenue from domestic sources through contractual research arrangements with large companies, such as
CMDT, sale of research related production and Government budgetary contributions. The share of these
types of revenues as percent of IER's overall budget increased from 25 percent in 1994 to 49. percent in
2001.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-un oneration had always been nlanned. Such an operation couild however, not he nut in place in
time for an orderly transition because of delays in reaching agreement with the Government on the timing
anAd scope of the restructuring of the Ministry for Rfra Development, anA  AosrA on t1ae part of the Bank's
design team to have a truly sectoral operation rather than a series of stand alone projects. The Agricultural
0erv.ces -an r.dcr1%___4;_ ng             o- Suppor       __je,  TTpr'dbya   A  crdi-Ul ,he amo-un of SDR
aVLVUVVb dULU J1?ILUUU.V1 %.J1r.U14ULAVUUb O3UFJULL rijL4J,;, bUjJj)U1LrU V U~ dIi J-t %~VAU.L LU UIUC WIIUUAU UI alJD.~
34.2 mnillion (Cr. 35830-ML), was approved by the Board on December 11, 2001 and is expected to be
effective by October 2002. Tims project wil contnue to strengtnen me reforms introduced under the
National Agricultural Research Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 I.ondi.ia:
The Bank's performance at the lending stage is judged marginally satisfactory. Project design was in
=P-#- *-; U ke *U'T.+;oSrc ! ---: A EI 9 . M .-~>h f-  r;A  D--U MU      +e Ulps
w"flltlfhf7 V w&Lf  Lfld I VCI%'5-  int '- f A ll4U U U   f0 Ifl'  At *UitUL~UL  fVhI,   niia
on institutional development (strengthening research management and coordination of all official funding
for agricultural -rsearch) and supported the autonomny of IER through the introduction of a separate statute
and by defining appropriate career paths and salary structure. It also tried to address failures from
previous operations by introducing accountability through research contracting and user participation in
defining and evaluating results. Its major weakness was that it was an ambitious project, trying to do too
-9-



much (major institutional reform and major research impact). As noted before, under pressure to move the
project forward, too many important reforms were left for implementation with no up-front conditionality.
In addition, the design team failed to quantify impact and progress indicators. The latter was however, not
uncommon for nroiects designed during this neriod.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance at the supervision stage is judged unsatisfactory. Though the project was
vi,pPrvIe. rPoIll2rlv uwith qaticfqrttnrv Pk-ill miy P'Yrn-nt initiqllv in tlh fnqnriRl rnnaoPment nrP.,
important decisions that would have reinforced the institutional reforms were not made in a timely manner.
iLje laaskTet, LU^C2r (backedA by setzr .      oubbsted inL 1996 "M&t &L&e B^r k L  Id reconsmide
the statutes for EER through advancing the Mid-Tern Review, but regional management did not support
ihns. with hindsight, it would have been be'ter to nave foiiowed tue Task Tearn Leader's advice or,
alternatively, to have threatened suspension. Continued inaction in irnplementing the revised statutes
eventually led to a threat of suspension in connection with the Mid-Term Review (late 1997). The statutes
were subsequently revised by the Government, but funds for salaries were not provided in a timely manner.
The land title issue was not resolved until staff requested the intervention of the Regional Vice President
with the President of Mali. Following discontinuity in the assignment of financial-management specialist
staff assigned to Mali, and difficulties in coordinating their visits with supervision missions, the Country
Office was strengthened in this area and the situation improved. The ambitious design of the proiect, with
focus on both institutional strengthening and improved research results, made the project difficult to
sunervise= Sunervision became almost exclusvively focused on imnlementation and problem solving. As a
result, the deficiencies in the functioning of project monitoring and evaluation were never satisfactorily
oAArncnA AoAnita  a nArA DrPx rpn, nonal I QIl4mn
Iff~C    a, ws.%voy.-Pw  i<Afl*-.V   jJlf.'  0Xt8b0.tJfl
73 2vera lBank-pe. - o.e:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. This rating is based on the weaknesses noted at the
ubigu i.uu supvisio sMLUagvo.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
LL U peLjX llIUIAV of LUe Bo.Luwer anU Lue iU1FpIVL.LVULULPC agenUies UUrIUg pEUJ  p1e parUaUUUU lb ri<lU
unsatisfactory. Following the 1991 meeting in Abidjan between member countries of the Special Program
for Action in Agricultural Research, the Government and LER took a lead role. Tne new agriculturai
master plan and a national agricultural research strategy were designed with the help of USAID and the
Intemational Service for National Agricultural Research, and officially adopted by Govermnent. There
was, however, little progress on the key issue of institutional reforms during the four years of project
preparation.
7.S Government implementation performance:
Boffower performance during proJect implementation was unsatisfactory. Govemment was slow in
releasing counterpart contributions and took many years before adopting the revised statutes for LER.
Delays in releasing funds for the amreed unon hiaher salaries for IER research staff led to the departure of
qualified staff. In addition, the activities planned to upgrade the capabilities of research laboratories,
rcnters anA cdtatinns .n,il,A innt hp c-n,IintPA hranlip rynupmrnmipnt AijA innt irwirAil T;PT ,xxthl arr-ptaol%I lo.A
Inn       *  is -'-- …     SSSJS …     ._.  ^.  -        *             .,w. s aw_ wS-j nSy
titles until late in the project. In addition, Government significantly reduced the size of the Sotuba Regional
L-research el w b,,LU  y amlULs 80 per Ln for LuVal ba V.IdVeLLop LLL eLL LLD Vit llphrLY, reqling, laurge iL-YVbsuslab
in fencing. This not only led to the relocation of research programs to other centers, but also to delays and
to increased investments at this site to the detriment of others.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 10 -



The implementation performance of both CNRA and IER has been satisfactory. Both agencies were
instrumental in preparing their staff for the proposed institutional reforTns, especially those related to staff
grading, the separation of staff into research and technical support staff, staff training, sub-regional
collaboration with other research institutions, and improved research planning and execution. IER also
successfully moved research staff from its headquarters in Bamako to the regional centers. IER was,
however, less successful in implementing the required changes in financial management, which has
remained weak. CNRA satisfactorily performed its role of coordinating and ensuring qualitv control of
national agricultural research activities, and introducing contractual research.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Thp Rnrrnwprc nversill nprfarmanrep ic rntpd1 inca17ifiefptnr, h'rtiic nf thp imnart nf thp A1pInwe in
implementing key institutional actions (adoption of the revised statute of IER, inadequate budget provisions
for salaries, lad titles). These delays m-ade it iff.cult to implement the envisaged in_stitutioa activities,
despite good efforts on behalf of IER and CNRA. It is likely that the project could have achieved all of its
institutional and researcn strengtnening objectives nad there been iess deiays, as the attention of the
implementing agencies and Bank supervision missions could have been focussed on technical issues.
8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons are evident from the implementation of this project. These are:
a) Institutional reform is a long-term and difficult process that often requires difficult policy decisions. In
the case of this project, the proposed reforns meant that (i) the Ministry for Rurai Development was to
reduce its control over IER and CNRA, (ii) transfer ownership from Ministry of Finance of vast plots of
productive land to IER in a country where land pressures are increasing, and (iii) loss of control from
different Ministries on IER as a large employer. In such an environment, the time needed to implement
these institutional changes needs to be carefully evaluated. This project was too optimistic in this regard.
Dated covenants and conditions of disbursements are not effective means of convincing waiy and new
policy makers to implement profound changes.
b) A project which tries to achieve profound institutional changes should have a detailed road map
o 4-s i  -a., otono anA vnar.fnA raJ.l*c 'TlIo -a neve A far t-.,.- fln;a n   -A l.k- n A- ;+ more
ho,  '-   vj -6 *-p so-n mtd              ..a ted  Wt- *-V -  Sh0 F F Jt.  OUt  t"o      e It
complex to supervise.
c) A properly functioning monitoring and evaluation system is a prerequisite to assess the impact of a
project. in the case of this project, the well selected indicators that were in the Development Credit
Agreement were never used to monitor project progress and impact. Likewise, farm level impact of new
technologies was not adequately followed to form the basis of guidelines for selecting and prioritizing
future research efforts. As a result, the success of a new technology is based on proxy indicators, such as
adoption rates, only little is known about actual constraints to adopting promising new technologies at the
farm level.
d) A demand-driven national system for technology generation, transfer and training, needs to 1rnitp all
interested parties in one platform, and take into account all related activities that are carried out in the
countr.It is therefore in-poatnt as part of the pr.ojec+ +_                            -A , a
W~".Y  A.  - - -   ---Lfl-J-   F- -Ib  -J L Fl'.WyJJ%.L  &% t UUL.i  Jt.L4 .LJ.LLlI2  attt
organizations of NGOs and private sector service providers, at both the regional and national level.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



No formal comments were submitted to the Bank by the due date. The Borrower did, however, prepare a
_e- com-         ..lc .n .4 A  -  -a f -f+1a -,4 ca" lke ftinA in A ixiiv 8
FJ9LJJt4.fl .JLLIJULIF%UULIU%jfL LW t. f  I. AlU  .* LWay.  UL1*JU  .ama
(b) Cofinanciers:
The cofinanciers of the project had reviewed their own activities separately at an earlier stage. Theydi d
not providec riticism on the aide-memoire of the mission but instead chose to formulate several
observations on what they felt were areas in need for strengthening during a possible follow-up operation.
The cofinanciers felt that:
*   fixedc osts at the center/station level should be prefinanced so that research activities could be carried
out; retnbihrSe.nent nf these eypntlrpe wniltd hp AhtaiinPA thmniuah an nvPrhaA r1hnrop aidded tn narth
research contract;
a    nluergoaiaino            eec     udn    o,i   a-c'r resea.-hdvlp,n ad,:nsr           c
V  Lucucuvr, 1~1irVi4dLaijL&uUJJ VUI LVDVMILJU JLLIULU, £LJ1 U.! JAUML LVUICU,  aL%,U.%&VV ,U~1.41SJLLL%J avS.& v1Jo J1
the researcher too independent vis-a-vis the CRU;
*   funding of NGO executed researcn activities should be tesiea,a s successes were obtained ini the
Sikasso region;
*   the CRU is a committee of the CNRA and has no legal standing to directly receive public funds; and
*   only one audit should be carried out covering all sources of funding, instead of independent audits
carried out on behalf of each donor.
/-I tnLerparm,e-s ^T/2/1va.>-:-#- o
(1. LAdd iincal     rtion
10. Additional Information



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
As was common at the time, but shouldh ave been retrofitted. Both the SAR andt heDC A defined a set of
imp, mntation prugriss aiu oULPULtui inUdios. 1 IIusu miicalorS arU Shown bOCIW
Progress Indicators                        Defined at Appraisal     End of
1994                     Project
outcome
4 l                      1 2001     1
dissemiination
Progress madei nt he implementation ofre search4                   1
I rnntrictina nrngeP entI                         
|aiue percentageo f researchact ivities(i n       0%                100%
Ivaiut erms)i mpiementeu unuerco nuracua
arrangements
number of research proposals accepted I     20% (1995)         70%
-as aproportion of those proposed         |
Training received and delivered compared to  |45 Doctorats/PhD     | 62
initial program                            6U Msc/DEA               94
l12se ssions
forCR U
member      I
42 seed
trained
9 training
sessionso n
Forestry
Upanirnes
Impact assessments                          012
and external reviews                       0                        16
programs
evaluated
Impactas sessments carried out jointlywi th the |LWV
extension services and research users
Number of research contracts funded from the
-13 -



| pilot User Research Fund
I-    number                                                      12
-     vqhiee q-, nercentqvre of totAl Fllund
Number of local working group meetings     66                     249
and numbero f monthly meetings with extension
staff (subject matter specialists) attended  80                   311
Publication of the annual renort (timeliness)                     l5
Number of scientific publications                                |400
I NumDer of puDlications for extension services  iiu
Progress with the rehabilitation of research  100%
infrastructure (valuecom pletedas percentof                       30%
value scheduled)
Equipment procurement(va lue purchasedas  1 100%                 | 28%
perceniuage 1 originally scLheduiied)
Progress with the consolidation of donor                          IDA,Gvt
funding (percent of total funds coordinated                       and Dutch
through CNRA)
Percent of research programs submitted to                          33%
IVteru al re-view each year.
Evaluation of all IER scientific staff                            Done
Evaluation of all JER technicians by their peers |               |_Done
IEvaluation of accounting staff hy accounting                     Done
Paroicgpamon M collaorduIvere gionaires earch j6                   i2 out or 10
programsII
Rationalization andreg roupingo fcen tral                          1998
service laboratories in four laboratories
Cost recovery of all contractsr elated to the  Throughout project  Yes
proaucutonofseedproducti ondiaoratory
services                n    arr
Cap thenu mberof scientistst o14 0 by     140                      158
December 31, 2000                        I                         scientists- of
which 29
training    |
Cap the number of technicians             130 for research       I 186
programs and 40 for
experiments tation
I_   __14_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I        I
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)     l
Expenditure Category      ICB        PrR-cuement MethoC   2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          4.60         0.00          4.90    |    9.50
(0.00)       (4.60)        (0.00)        (0.00)   1   (4.60)
2. Goods                      4.70          0.00         1.30          8.00         14.00
'I7A (1A0 in A             (1 .30)A (0.A0             (60AA)
13. Services             1     0.00         0.00         2.00          12.40        14.40
Consultants and audits       (0.00)    I   (0.00)   1    (2.00)   j   (0.00)   1   (2.00) 
14. Mlscellaneous        |    0.00     I    0.00     I    1.00    1    7.10     1   8.10
|Training                j    (0.00)   I   (0.00)    I   (1.00)   I    (0.00)   I   (1.00)
1  Mierllanniu          I     n n0.         n n00   I    A nn     I   sQon     I     s 
IRecurrent costs and         (0.00)        (0.00)    |   (6.00)   |    (0.00)   |   (6.00)
research contracts
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.40          0.00         0.40
iler r@Alreseh fund         (.0    (       0.)A AA   I  (A AAN       (A. AA0      (A0AA0
Total                      4.70     j    4.60         10.70    1    91.60        111.60   I
(4.70)   j    (4.60)   j   (10.70)       (0.00)   l   (20.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'l
Expenditure Category      ICB           -NC     -   O             N.B.F.     Total Cost
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                       .   %h~                   I  -
1. Works                      0.00    1     1.05         0.00    T    0.93    f    1.98
(0.00)   J    (1.05)   j   (0.00)   I   (0.00)   j   (1.05)
2. Goods                |     2.00     |    0.22    |    0.41    |    3.18     |   5.81
(2.00)       (0.22)        (0.41)       (0.00)       (2.63)
Consultants and audits       (0.00)   |    (0.00)   |   (3.22)        (000)        (3.22)
4. Misceiianeous              0.00          0.00         i2
Tralning                     (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.23)        (0.00)      (1.23)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         11.08   |    30.33        41.41
iRecurrent costs and         (0.00)        (0.00)       (11.08)   |   (0.00)   |  (11.08)
|research contracts      £             t            l             ll
16. Miscellaneous             0.0           0.00         0.51          0.00         0.51
|User research fund          (0.00)        (0.00)   |    (0.51)       (0.00)   |   (0.51)
I  Total                 I    2 An     1    1 27    I    16 .45       36. R8       56C 7
[ _ _._____(2_00)                       (1.27)       16j45        (0.00)       (19.72)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
- 15 -



managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by expenditure account (in US$ million equivalent)
Iex6enditure account       Appraisal Estimate     I    Actual/Latest Estimate    P
D r;o                         IDAA  |1 GG -ovt    CoF. |  IDA |Govt.     CoF.
CIN--wr-              In 4.6        0.80      4.10 I     .        1.0?7     0.93    22.8   133.8   22.7 
Vehicles and equipment    6.00      0.00      8.10      2.60      1.56      3.18    43.3    0.0    39.3
Ue-sAA    A- A-un  A-'A'     'A' 00  01           0.00     127.c   A A    0.0
Consultant services       2.00      0.00     12.40      3.10                1 .16   155.0   0.0    9.4
"'C"",                    v-ann  an   aa v  I  aaI 'I .           ant     ala  a  a~ a~ a_., V
Iraining                 i.0U      0.00      /.iV       1.;0                ;.25    I ;0.0  0.0   ;7.6
Operating costs of NARC,  3.00     17.10     38.10  |   5.97      15.05    30.33    199.0   88.0   79.6
JLiER and ingRE
Research conventions     3.00       0.00     0.00       2.94                0.00    98.0    0.0    0.0
The distribution of theGo vemment counterpart contribution overt he different categories is not available
seperately, it is included under the cofmancing column. The actual Government contribution was US$17.7
million versus US$17.9 million planned (or about 99 percent).
- 16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Beneflts
The Staff Appraisal Report did not attempt to estimate economic or financial benefits for the project.
AUs&teaU, it L4IJLVtee  to zn n I,stnLUIQJ  3t,fLt,LI ' Pt,sIUI S   Polc,y A azpe;, T.' ml nau6, Je 19, vUvI h ih ad.
concluded that investments in agricultumal research in both developed and developing countries had
generatea hign ecounomiic raws vo return, excuming 0 percent m many ciases.
IER conducted some studies to estimate the financial and economic impact of technologies develoned and
extended during the implementation phase of PNRA. The studies were conducted in 2001 on the main crops
rraM r.,-ce anti lnw rrnnnd r.Pe non m;7p m,illpt/cnrolhiim  rnttnri ornntininitt anni infnrnn2tinn was
obtained on the adoption rates of the different technologies and the estimated returns. Table 1 below gives a
Table 1: Adoption and profitability of innovations (source [ER. 2001)
Programs                 | Intenal Rate  Adoption  1
I                         I___________________ _   of Return  Rate
Rice                     l62% O155%               |
Maize                    | 120% o       45-78%
1Millet                   1660/n        1 1I8°/n     1
Sorghum                  l 50%         |22%
COLouo                     28%-/       1 2n/
Artificial insemination                1 _ _26%_l
Fodder crops                              8%
Groundnut                1 22%         1 10-15%     |
The results of thee stuAdie or. inAXit;x7A nnlu na thP samnlP size was tnn smnil
N'4o sLiudie Ws1u weUrLu l en .U rLUUa4Mur *I Iost effec.VLUVVUVe-  Ves of  4IL,1i UtULVbo  ardU a4IL.e LLL piUCVL,. llllS
weakness will be addressed during the follow-on project.
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
I steop nf Proect Cc1o                          eranaI SeciI,             .      Perfnrnance Rating
. .                e&onol.e  I &onists1 FMS, etc.)  s  ImplementationI Development 1
Identiffcafon/Preparation
07/91-01i91                  2    i Agr. Researcn Speciaiist,         S 
I Economist
06/91                        5    1 Agr. Research Specialist,
1E conorist,Agr. Services
Specialsst,
lR esewarch infrfastructre
Speciahstr
1[Pnrocu c.reen Speialist,
IADDraisal/egotiation
03-04/93                     8    1 Agr. Research Specialist,         SS
1 Economist,
0  I Agr. Services Specialist,
1R esearch Infrastructure
Specialist,
1 InfRastruchure Specialist,
12/21/1994                   2    1 A.ServicesSpecia,ISMS, 
Procurement Speciaist,
nr9                                          I lSociologist R   e    
08/28/1994                    4   1 Agr. Services Specialist,         S            HS
I Agzriculturalist.
I ISociologist,
1 Research Specialist
12/21/1994       |           2 | 1 Agr. Services Specialist,          S            HS
I Agr. Research Specialist
06/23/1995                1        Agr. Research Speciaist                         HS
I  iit2;/g99r. Services Specialist,
07/11/19/17                   2 |    ResearchMgt. Specialist
|        ~~~11/23/1996     |4 |1 Agr. Services Specialist,              |         U    |     U
l                  l              | 1~~~~~~~~~~ NGO Specialist,
I                  I              I !~~~~~~~~~~ ConsulaintIII
1        ~~~02/25/1997                 3   1 1FMS,                             u U            U   
1 Agr. Services Specialist,
I                  I              I ~~~~~~~~~~~I Research Specialist  
|        ~~~07/11/19/1997  |2 |1 FMS,                                    |        U    |      U
I Agr. Services Specialist
11/25/1998                   4 4  1 Farmers Organization             U              U



Specialist,
1 FMS,
2 Agr. Services Specialist
02/26/1999                   1   1 Agr. Services Specialist  U| UU
05i28ii999                   3 ; z P 2  gr. Sbervices -SpeciaiList, f 
1 FMS
02/10/2000                   7  2 Agr. Services Specialist,        S             S
1 T ;i,etn^rle npp,ral'ct,
1 FMS,
1 A. Research SPepGia1iSt
1 Soil Fertility Specialist,
1 Farmerq Organi7ation
|             | Specialist
02!10/2000       I           3   1 Aar 1.Servinpq Ierinisdist
1 FMS,
1 Procurement Specialist
02/26/200 1      |          3 |1 Agr. Services Specialist,         S
I Agr. Research Specialist,
1 Livestock Specialist
03/11-22/2002    !              1 Agr- Research Specialist;        S             S
1 Economist,
2 Agr. Services Snecialists.
1 M&E Specialist,
IR esearch Infrastructure
Specialist,
1 Infrastructure Specialist,
I FMS,
1 Procurement Specialist,
1 Project Assistant,
I Technical Asistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Ac.a -ts E
Identification/Preparation              22.5
. . ....... _, . _~~ Ar fl               ,           ~      ^ . --
AppralsallNegotiation                  45.0U                 3Y97,071.37
Supervision                            114.3                  471,313.49
ICR                                     22.0                   45,400.00
Total                                  203.8         1        914,584.86
Detailed budgets do not allow for a distinction between preparation and appraisal. All preparation costs
are put under Appraisal.
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Ratinf
L Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Ol Netnr Pnliries                     n H    ) SU n M  C N  0 NA
M Physical                             OH OSUOM ON ONA
n F.in,neia!                          OnH    Os UOM    O N   *vN.A
3 Institutional Development            0 H   0 SU 0 M  0 N   0 NA
Fn   rr   e                            O H     OTr SU O  M A, * AMA
L__.J LJS&  J$,CIq4                    ...A   thL  W314 ~ .  I 1S
LO Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Gender                         O H  0 SU 0 M      ON   A NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
OJ Private sector developiment         C) H  (-iO SU O(D M  ON  O IVA
Oi Public sector management            0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)              O H   O SUO M   ON    * NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
15 Nunprvivion                                       O   z n! O5  *aU   O .HU
F Overall                                           O HS O s      * U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS        *U    O HU
? Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS        * U   O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
StaffApp naisal Report, National A g cut'hral 1L2pagort1 Prnnpoet. Datea M,vnwm.br 0 1 O99 andA Reor no
12190- MLI.
Development Credit Agreement, National Agricultural Research Project, Republic of Mali, Credit Number
2557- fiLi, date
Aide-memoires of the supervision missions
Bilan du projet national de recherche agricole (PNRA), Comite national de recherche agricole, f6vrier 2002
(rapport provisoire)
Rapports Annuels de Recherche (Anual Research Publications). IER
Rannorts d'a iLitq financierS
D1d. Dsn..oA- ID-U--     A ^AI   KTD  A -.4-;1 A.4- --A --A, A-4-
* .            ...I.,e>ssvS \|9 X\_swV  -  APVWS J _I LNX, VJLUa I at.R WJLL I VI V1U UaL
Rapport d' evaluation du Projet National de la Recnerche Agricole ( PN.KA) par le Gouvernement.
- 22 -



Additional Annex 8.S ummary of Borrower's Project Completion Report
Afin de doter le secteur du developpement nAral d'un Systeme National de Recherche Agricole perfornant
et repondant aux exigences d'une production agricole croissante, diversifiee et durable, le Gouvemement du
Mali a elabore en 1992 un Plan Strategique A long terme de la Recherche agricole. La premiere phase de ce
plan, prevue pour une periode de 6 ans, a ete traduite en actions dans le cadre du Projet National de la
Recherche Agricole (PNRA).
Soutenu et finance nar le Gouvemement du Mali et la Banque Mondiale avec la participation de nombreux
partenaires au developpement (Pays-Bas, USAID, Novartis, Cooperation Suisse, France, FED etc.) le
PNRA,A a dA6ff"avrr en 1 QQA At a pr.s -gin l- 3! AAP.Amhra 2)001
Les objectifs vises par le PNRA etaient les suivants:
-      le reUforUemtenit InsiutUonnel;
-      une meilleure gestion des programmes de recherche;
-      le transfert de technologies et la participation des utilisateurs (producteurs et transformateurs) au
processus de fonctionnement de la recherche;
-      la mise en valeur et la gestion des ressources.
Conformement aux dispositions de l'accord de credit, la mission gouvemementale a effectue une evaluation
finale du programme dont les r6suitats et les conclusions sont resumAs ci-apres.
All. t.tra d- renforein en iQttlAir
T - I'-TfT A                                        J.L....Li 
Le 1'41'.ft a el' U4LtrILOVlLl eUn -une WititA alutonow   chamge de Ur  c dLUUIUnUUU et UC lit supervisiUn Uds
activites du systeme national de la recherche agricole avec une bonne integration des representants des
Utilisateurs de la recnerche agricole. ii a ete a partir de 1997, maitre d;ceuvre (financement Banque
Mondiale) ou fortement associ6 (financement Pays-Bas, Cooperation Fran,aise) au financement de la
recherche agricole A travers une strat6gie de contractualisation de la recherche.
L'IER a ete erige en Etablissement Public A caractere Administratif (1992) puis en Etablissement Public A
caractere Scientifique et Technologique (2001); il est dot6 de l'autonomie administrative et financiere et
dispose d'un patrimoine s6curise et d'un personnel sous contrat regi par un accord d'etablissement. Le
personnel de recherche est hir&archis6 dcans les princinaux corms de la recherche. LTER a ete forternent
regionalis6 (centres regionaux et stations de recherche) et restructur6 avec une s6paration entre les fonctions
de raecherhe et d'appui alx ser ices Ae raphae_he.'
Ces acq-uisL UVsb UiLpVLLdUs Mir le pl:an inbd-LU 60nnel,on,Iz:aC, ont ee  ccopa44gfe5s de queques fabilesses,
notamment, le retard accus6 dans la mise en place de certaines reformes, 'imnplication encore insuffisante
du ClNAKA et des Utilisateurs dans le financement de la recherche et iimpilication encore insuffisante des
autres acteurs du SNRA dans l'execution des projets de recherche.
Au titre de la gestion des programmes de recherche
La mise en couvre du PNRA a beaucoup contribue A ameliorer la gestion scientifique de la recherche
agricole au Mali. La pertinence et la qualite scientifique des recherches ont et6 fortement d6velopp6es A
travers une meilleure organisation structurelle (Direction scientifique; coordinations et colleAes
scientifiques) et la mise en place de mecanismes appropri6s de programmation et d'evaluation de la
recherche ag.cole a-c la plei;"e partcipation des ut--isa-eM (cor^.ssions Ap t A--.l A-M Ar' T A  .1
- 23 -



strategique revis6, cycle de programmation, evaluations externes des programmes etc.). Les chercheurs ont
MAnAfi6iA de nomnhreuses fnrmntions et participent al ux activxtes des reseatx region_a ux e-t intt-rnstionan  txide
recherche.
Dans la realisation de cet objectif, n1 a e note comme principales faiblesses, l'insuffisance des ressources
humllainies au niveau de certains programilules et centres de -recherhe, i'ins-ulfisance de 'Iexploitauions des
autres ressources du SNRA.
Au titre du transfert de technologie et de la participation des utilisateurs au processus de la recherche
Durant la p6riode d'execution du PNRA, de nombreuses innovations ont e  developpees dans l'objectif
d'accroatre et de diversifier la production et le revenu agricole et d'instaurer les mecanismes d'une gestion
durable des ressources naturelles. Le transfert de ces technologie s'est trouv6 fortement favoris6 par les
mecanismes de cooperation mis en place dans le cadre du PNRA et du PNVA entre chercheurs,
vulgarisateurs et Utilisateurs des resultats de la recherche (test en milieu reel- AMRn-
La parmdri    Iatin  tdes T t tlie2t lre au processl cIPnroaramtli2In de la rA c l pha s,'est  c cIAt  e A 
la cr6ation des CRU et CNU, leur participation aux comit6s preparatoires et aux journ6es portes ouvertes
u~ .iiU  u~ ~AEILJ-1 1%,V,Ll av2IluJJ UVIZ %lAul1ulMubbun UV UilVi11 UU %-P4I%J, 1r, Iv.VU ~1LIux L
des Centres ue recece    e  esin    e   o=isin      euvi:d       lru,l recoLirs a-u   angues8
nationales lors de certaines sessions. Un fonds des Utilisateurs a ete mis en place pour le fmancement de
projets de rechercne a la demande directe des Utiiisateurs; iis ont par ailleurs benefici6 de nombreuses
s6ances de formation et d'appui conseil lors de la preparation de leur plate-forme.
Malgre ces points tr6s positifs, il est not6 des insuffisances dans le systeme de diffusion de certaines
innovations techniques qui en limitent l'adoption, le faible niveau de mobilisation du fonds des Utilisateurs
pour le financement de projets de recherche a la demande directe des Utilisateurs, la d6finition insuffisante
des procedures et modalites d'implication des utilisateurs au mecanisme de financement et de
suivi-evaluation de la recherche agricole. L'insuffisance des credits. surtout anres l'arret du PNVA et avec
la crise de la fliere coton, a quelque peu limite la diffusion et I'adoption de certaines technologies.
Au titre de la valorisation et de la gestion des ressources
Sur le plan des infrastructures, des realisations importantes ont e realisees en matiere de constructions et
de r6habilitauion des locaux ainsi que sur ie plan de i'acquisition de mateiei et dequipements. Des manueis
de procedures pour le bon fonctionnement de lIER ont et6 elabores et mis en cuvre ( Accord
d'etablissement, gestion financi6re, gestion du personnel, passation des marches, gestion decentralisee du
parc auto etc.). Le systeme comptable et financier mis en place est effectivement decentralise et donne plus
de cr6dibilit A l'IER.
Ces efforts sont cependant juges encore insuffisants, en particulier en ce qui conceme l'equipement
informatique des centres, leur dotation en personnel comptable qualifie et en personnel de recherche de haut
niveau.
A !'isue, de sonA cn Vuloion Ia rMission rnn0,.ernerpMen,nfl a formnnlA n t..n r.or,b: de  . t4n.
dontc elles relatives:
-      au renforcement du CNRA dans son role de pilotage des activites du SNRA;
-      au renforcement des capacites manageriaies et scientifiques des structures de recherche;
-      au renforcement des liens de collaboration entre les principaux acteurs du SNRA;
-      a la mise en place des Conseils regionaux de recherche et A l'op6rationalisation du cycle r6gional de
- 24 -



programmation de la recherche;
-      a la mise en place de sttnices apprpripres de financernent de la recherche narimne (re(rhercheq
strategiques ou appliqu6es, recherches a la demande directe des utilisateurs);
-      au it-muiA.t.iiirt.t du dino tif deU V s iii-evU at.itn met d'eudte d'irpact Ide sn .esl.rnot.a   Ina tcecin
S'agissant de 1'6vaiation de la 1p e.r.o..ance du Gou-rne.w..nt et de la  --nque Mor.dia, Ia mission
gouvemementale note les observations et appreciationsc i-apres:
Performance du projet et durabilite du projet
Le PNRA a contribue a la mise en place d'une ebauche de systeme national de recherche agricole autour de
l'IER qu'il reste a renforcer. II a dote le dispositif national de recherche d'un organe de coordination et de
supervision, le CNRA, et assur6 la pleine participation des utilisateurs au processus de la recherche
agricole. Le PNRA a contribue a l'am6lioration de l'environnement scientifique et de gestion de lIER. II a
contribue a l'exp6rimentation d'approche nouvelle en matiere de fmancement de la recherche agricole. Bon
nombre de ces resultats peuvent etre jug6s de durables et sont susceptibles d'exploitation dans la mise en
euvre de la Comnosante Apnui au svsteme national de la recherche aaricole du PASAOP.
Pprfwm,niinrp Au gniviv.rnPmt-.nt
En A-'-:t des ---------s notees dns A  rsee 1vl dea.       -*erAes Aci ..e upogz=.,e  atc1
f u vutJp.  Ut.al %IAJUCU U& a,l..ouItt  m 0 la *tlOt. .  tt u wt  UL  .d  a.toa.,VitOUtFU~aLW& ~U*it.  F.ii  -at
I'acquisition des titres fonciers des domaines de recherche, la performance aussi bien du gouvernement que
des agences d'execuuon peut -re jugge satusfaisante. L mm et le CNRA se sonat acquittces ae maniere
satisfaisante des missions qui leurs etaient confiees.
Performance de la Bangue
La performance de la Banque peut 8tre jugee satisfaisante en depit de quelques insuffisances de la
pr6paration du projet, apparues plus tard dans la mise en oeuvre et l'evaluation finale; il s'agit surtout du
probleme des indicateurs d'imDact et des methodes de leur evaluation obiective.
Les missions de supervision ont ete regulieres et de bon niveau, m8me si lors de ces missions les problemes
dep ,IveApplPnnptit insitutionnen1 ont niilunuie npeu mnrrinnflic4 !'anpreniati-^n desm rAultot- tpphniniieq et tip
leur impact.
Relationse ntrel 'emprunteure tl aBa nque
En d&pit des difficultes rencontrees dans la mise en ceuvre, les relations entre l'emprunteur et la Banque
sont restees fianches et cordiales.
Lecons a tirer
L'elaboration de proc6dures claires au d6part constitue un el6ment de succes dans l'ex6cution du projet.
Par ailleurs l'identification des indicateurs contribue enorm6ment a assurer une bonne supervision, ainsi
que des evaluations performiantes.
- 25 -






IBRD 24964
NATIONAL AGRICULTURALF                                                                                               p       ALEA
|   M ~~~~ ~    ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L                                                               G E R I A.\ 
RESEARCH PROJECT                               l                                                ;/1IiI 
REGIONAL CENTERS             =lSAHARAN/
CENTRES REGIONAUX DE RECHERCHE          SAHAR;ENNf
STATIONS DE RECHERCHE        =    SAHELLAN/SAHELIENNE                  F :               I I            F               I    II!
* SUBSTATIONS                 ZIIISUDANIAN/SOUDANIENNE   I I                  I         ; 1 !|    r      I     |II               Fj   II     l
SOUS-STATIONS              |     GUINEAN/GUINEENNE                     !            I  IFlFI        ti         |I
_    Paved Roads                  ®   Region Capitals      !                           Ii Ii
Routes Rev6tues                  Chef -Leu-de-R6gion
Paved Roads Under Construction  - _   Region Boundaries
Routes Revetues en Construction  Limite de Region
Railroad e                  *    National Capital
Chemin de Fer           ~~~~~~Copitole D Etot
Navigabole Rivers (July-Decem6er)  2W Isohyets in Milrimeters
Rivi6re Navigable (juillet-decermbre)  Isohy6tes en Millimetres J
t>  Flood Areas                --_ International Boundaries
Zone D'inondation                Fronti6res lnternationales
;, Dam and Reservoir                                        \\.\N*jt             J                   \1\       X\\       \   X     X   \\      \   \\\
Barrage et Reservoir > \gt\&\\\\\\\\\
B  /_  eAVM A U R I T A N I A           ;_
4 ' J \ 'a, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R
|' - i > S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B uF R K5 I N < vA
A~~~ BURKIN
w t N f 7 , | |SFASO        NSH!
, / N ~~~~~Torl d.|i                                                                                         ALGERIA 
0   50  150  200  250  300 
G UIN E A            Kebila  _ ikasso                                   KILOMETERS                   ALGERIA
G U I N E A         ,C       r        $     Kebilo    ilo         2                                                                      MALI     r       I
Fir,61.                                                                     NKAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(   _ -
T h r s a o sb e e c p , mor e y e W o d u sn M , Ba A re c                                       G    H   ABN  A       /    I  I" i   IJ     EU R K I N A   7 ,
| r rwpSOOfl&         ttgyrs I COTE D'IVOIRE  L.                                                                          | GUINEEA  NIGEN A
NOVEMBER 1993









IMAGING
Report No.:         24407
I ype:    'CR



