CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 742 CE
Project Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance
Corporation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
OF CEYLON
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NO. 742 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON (hereinafter called
DFCC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower, for on lending to DFCC, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars
($8,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that DFCC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS DFCC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of DFCC
Section 2.01. DFCC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and conduct
its operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified management, and in
accordance with the DFCC Act and the Statement of Policy.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Development CredJt Agreement, DFCC shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) When submitting a Sub-Loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
DFCC shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-Loan or Investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-Loan or of repayment
to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the Investment,
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(c) Each request by DFCC for authorization to m.4ke with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidary Loan Agreement) and
the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and DFCC shall otherwise agree, shall not
extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of such Investment Project, or of authorization by the
Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect
of such Investment Project, and shall provide for approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual or more
frequent payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and DFCC shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall submit applications pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section on or before
December 31, 1979.
Section 2.03. DFCC undertakes that, unless the Association
shall have otherwise agreed or shall otherwise agree, any Sub-Loan


﻿-3-
or Investment will be made on terms whereby DFCC shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and DFCC, including, in the case of any such
Sub-Loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any Investment, the right of DFCC to: (i) require the
Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Association or DFCC shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-Loan or Investment upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under
its contract with DFCC.
Section 2.04. DFCC shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Association and DFCC, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. DFCC shall submit to the Association for
its prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made
by DFCC in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-Loan.
Section 2.06. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall not take or concur in any
action which wou.ild have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer,
encumber or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets,
except in the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall take
all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.08. If DFCC establishes or acquires any Subsidiary,
DFCC shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obli-
gations of DFCC hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 2.09.   DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put
at the disposal of DFCC by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. DFCC shall promptly
inform the Association of any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.10. DFCC shall establish a scheme for lending to
SSIs in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.11. DFCC shall charge an interest rate of at least
thirteen per cent (13%) per annum on all its Sub-Loans except
those made through intermediaries.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DFCC shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project


﻿-5-
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of DFCC.
Section 3.02. DFCC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of DFCC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the DFCC's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.04. DFCC shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of DFCC which, in
the judgment of the Association, would materially affect the
DFCC's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and DFCC, DFCC shall not incur or permit any
Subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the intcurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than seven times the
consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by DFCC or any Subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿-6-
(b) The term incurring of debt includes the assumption and
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension, or modification of
the terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
(c) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into.
(d) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing official
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the DFCC for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(e) "consolidated debt o, DFCC and all its Subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of DFCC and Subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by DFCC to any Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary
to DFCC or to any other Subsidiary.
(f) "consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and Subsid-
iaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of DFCC and Subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests of DFCC
in any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary in DFCC or any other
Subsidiary.
Section 3.06. DFCC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Rupees) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 3.07. The Association and DFCC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of DFCC and its Subsidiaries, and DFCC shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-Loans and Investments, the administration, operations and


﻿-7-
financial condition of DFCC and Subsidiaries, and the progress of
the Project.
Section 3.08. DFCC shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of DFCC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
DFCC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exer-
cise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either party under
this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right,
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party
in respect of any default, or any acquiescence in any default,
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in
respect of any other or subsequent default.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DFCC:
Development Finance Corporation
of Ceylon
P.O. Box 1397
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
DELCEY
Colombo
Section 5.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of DFCC may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of DFCC or such other person or persons as said
General Manager shall designate in writing.
Section 5.04. DFCC shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of DFCC,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by DFCC pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 5.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
By /s/ W. Tennekoon
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Scheme for Lending to SSIs
1*   DFCC will participate in a scheme for the financing of
SSIs, together with the Industrial Development Board (IDB), the
People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon, Applications under the
scheme will be received and processed by IDB and one or the other
of the two banks. ApplicatLns for foreign exchange finance will
be submitted to DFCC, which will normally undertake a desk review
of the appraisal prepared by the other institutions. DFCC will
adopt a simplified appraisal standard under this scheme, and
applications will be approved by DFCC's General Manager. Follow-up
work will be primarily the responsibility of IDB.
2.   The upper limit for finance under the scheme is Rs400,000,
of which a maximum of Rsl50,000 (at the official rate of exchange)
would be in foreign currency. The foreign exchange interest
rate to the SSI borrower will be 13%, of which 3% will represent
the spread for the bank p,rticipating in the individual loan.
The participating bank will guarantee DFCC's loan against default.


