CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 742 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance
Corporation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 742 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977 between THE REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (hereinafter called DFCC) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to DFCC the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and DFCC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "DFCC" means the Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon, a body corporate constituted pursuant to the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon Act No. 35 of 1955 of the Borrower
as amended by Act No. 8 of 1958, Act No. 1 of 1967, and Act No.
12 of 1974;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and DFCC of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DFCC pursuant to Section
3.01(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(d) "Sub-Loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made directly or through an intermediary acceptable to the
Association by DFCC in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(d)
of this Agreement;
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by DFCC in whole or in part out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
DFCC proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(h)   "Rupees" and the letters "Rs" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(i) "DFCC Act" means the Development Finance Corporation
of Ceylon Act No. 35 of 1955 of the Borrower, as amended by
Act No. 8 of 1958, Act No. 1 of 1967 and Act No. 12 of 1974, as
further amended from time to time, and shall include the
Regulations prescribed thereunder, as amended;


﻿-3-
(j) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policy
approved by the Board of Directors of DFCC on April 11, 1967,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as may be amended
from time to time with the prior approval of the Association;
(k)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or is effectively controlled by DFCC or by any one or
more subsidiaries of DFCC or by DFCC and one or more of its
subsidiaries;
(1) "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreements
(No. 520 CE and No. 634 CE) between the Bank and DFCC dated
November 22, 1967 and July 18, 1969, respectively;
(m) "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (No. 566 CE) between the Association and DFCC dated
June 27, 1975; and
(n) "SSI" means a Small Scale Industry Investment Enter-
prise, namely an investment enterprise in which investment in
machinery and equipment does not exceed Rs 500,000, or such other
amount as the Borrower and the Association may agree, and "SSI
Investment Project" means a specific Investment Project to be
carried out by an SSI.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates DFCC as its representa-
tive for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted
under the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account for amounts expended by DFCC for an Investment Project,
or if the Association shall so agree, for expenditures required


﻿-4-
to be made by DFCC for an Investment Project, to finance the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this Section may be made in respect of expenditures
in currencies other than the currency. of the Borrower for goods
produced outside Sri Lanka.
(c) No withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-Loan
or Investment unless (i) the Sub-Loan or Investment shall have
been approved by the Association; or (ii) the Sub-Loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals.
(d) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a Sub-Loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
financed or proposed to be financed for the same Project under the
Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Loan Agreements
and Prior Credit Agreement or under any other loan or credit made
available to DFCC from any other external source of finance, and
not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of:
(i) one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for (A)
Investment Projects which propose to export less
than eighty per cent (80%) of their production, and
which are also either new Investment Projects or
existing Investment Projects involving an increase
in installed capacity of at least ten per cent
(10%), and (B) tourism Investment Projects; and
(ii) four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) for
Investment Projects other than those included in
sub-paragraph (i) above,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-Loan subject to
the Association's approval, or in respect of an Investment, if
such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which


﻿-5-
the Association shall have received in respect of such Sub-Loan
or Investment the application and information required by Section
2.02(b) of the Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan,
if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.02(c)
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amounts
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1987, and ending April 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to DFCC for the purpose of carrying out the Project
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and DFCC under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, or amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the performance by DFCC of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall
be required on its part in order to enable DFCC to perform such
obligations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of DFCC under the Project Agreement;
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to DFCC
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(c) a change shall have been made in the DFCC Act which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition
or operations of DFCC;
(d) the Statement of Policy shall have been amended without
the prior approval of the Association; and


﻿-7-
(e) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by DFCC, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
DFCC's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of DFCC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and DFCC, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(c) DFCC's Board of Directors shall have adopted a Statement
of Development Strategy acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DFCC, and is
legally binding upon DFCC in accordance with its terms; and


﻿-8-
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the
Borrower and DFCC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
DFCC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 28, 1977 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, the Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINPLAN                          1232
Colombo                             Colombo
Sri Lanka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the financing by DFCC of specific
development Projects through loans and credits directly or through
intermediaries to, and Investments in, private enterprises in the
territories of the Borrower in accordance with the DFCC Act and
the Statement of Policy.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraphs are added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement."
"14. The term 'DFCC' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in Section 2.02(e) of the Project
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under para-
graph (b) or paragraph (c) of such Section shall have been
received by the Association in respect of any portion of the
Credit, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of DFCC to
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of
such notice such amount or portion or the Credit shall be
cancelled."


