Document of
The World Bank                   FILE CUPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3314-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 11, 1982
This duement ha a rteicted dsbution gnd may be used by redipieiits dby in the pOiffnabMe of
their ofidal dits. Its coatents may not otherwise be deiscloed without Wedd whbk *a6mmIlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Effective January 8, 1982
Effective January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the
Pakistan Rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted basket of
currencies. At the end of April, currency equivalents were:
Rs 11.70 = US$1.00
Rs 1.00 = US$0.09
February 16, 1973 to January 7, 1982
Rs 9.90 = US$1.00
Rs 1.00 = US$0.10
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY
APC    -  Agricultural Prices Commission
EFF    -  Extended Fund Facility
mcf    -  One thousand cubic feet
OGDG   -  Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
SAL    -  Structural Adjustment Lending
SCARP  -  Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
WAPDA  -  Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Credit Summary .......... . . .. .  ..................... .*....................  i
PART I - THE ECONOMY .....................                           .......       1
A.  General Background ............                  . .... ...... * * * * .    1
B.  Economic Development to the Mid-1970s ......................                2
C.  Economic Reforms and Performance Since 1977 ......           ........       3
D.  Long-Term Balance of Payments Prospects ....*................               8
PART II - STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM
PROGRAM .............. ......  o...................................        10
A.  The Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Program  ..............                   12
B.  The Proposed SAL Program ..* .....  .............. .     ................    14
I.  Development Planning ........ .         ....... .    ............... .    14
II.  The Agriculture and Water Sectors ....................    19
III.  The Energy Sector ............    ..     . ,.............. . ...    24
IV.  Industry ...............                              ...... ..  29
Matrix Presentation of the Structural Reform Program .......    32
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT  ....... o ....    37
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN              . ......    42
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY              ............               44
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION .............              ..     .......          .    44
ANNEXES
I. Social and Economic Data..  45
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations                   .     ............       50
III.  Supplementary Project Data Sheet so....................                    59
IV.  GOP Statement of Development Policies .....................    61
V.  Use of Fund Resources  ......... ..... .    82
M4AP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Loan and Credit Summary
Borrower:                     Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                       Loan:    US$60 million (including
capitalized front end fee).
Credit: SDR 71.9 million
(US$80 million equivalent).
Terms:                       Loan:    repayment in 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at 11.6% interest p.a.
Credit: standard terms.
Loan/Credit Description:    The Loan and Credit would support the implement-
ation of the Government's structural adjustment
program as outlined in the statement of develop-
ment policy in the attached letter from the
Government to the Bank. The program consists
of a number of significant improvements
in the areas of development planning,
agricultural/water sector policies, energy
sector policies and industrial sector policies.
The program has been designed through extended
analysis and discussion of key economic issues
between the Government and Bank staff and
complements the economic reform program which
is being pursued in the context of an Extended
Fund Facility from the IMF.
The Loan and Credit would finance high-priority
imports by both public and private sectors.
Counterpart funds would be used for development
expenditures by the Federal Government. The
Government has requested technical assistance to
support the implementation of the adjustment
program: a separate credit for this purpose is
being proposed. The main risk relates to possible
political events either inside Pakistan or in the
region which may impede the inplementation of the
program.



- ii-
Estimated Disbursements:    The Loan and Credit would be disbursed in two
tranches: US$90 million (comprising $51 million
equivalent from the Credit and $39 million from
the Loan) would be available for disbursement on
effectiveness and US$50 million (comprising $29
million equivalent from the Credit and $21
million from the Loan) after a review of the
progress of implementation in October/November
1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by September 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Struc-
tural Adjustment Loan of $60 million (including capitalized front end fee)
and Credit of SDR 71.9 ($80 million equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan. The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years'
grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a.; the IDA Credit would be on standard IDA
terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report entitled "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and Prospects"
(Report No. 3802-PAK), dated April 14, 1982, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 16, 1982.
A. General Background
3.      Pakistan has experienced an uneven pattern of development over the
past 20 years. Rapid economic growth during the 1960s was followed by a
period of poor performance in the early and mid-1970s.  Having inherited an
extremely difficult economic as well as political situation in 1977, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) has moved firmly and effectively to re-establish
economic stability and generate appreciable growth (averaging over 6% from
FY77 to FY81). The Government's recovery programs have been based on a
foundation of firm financial management and on a wide range of price adjust-
ments which have begun to correct the distortions in the Pakistan economy.
The reforms already adopted and the further measures proposed made it pos-
sible for GOP to reach agreement with the IMF in November 1980 on a substan-
tial Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program (SDR 1,268 million over three
years).
4.      Following a further rapid increase in migrant workers' remittances
(now over $2 billion per year) and the negotiation of the EFF, the balance of
payments position has become more manageable. This has provided an oppor-
tunity for GOP policymakers to move beyond a pre-occupation with short-term
stabilization problems and to focus increasingly on longer-term issues. GOP
is aware that, in the absence of further wide-ranging measures to strengthen
productivity and trade performance, its 6-6.5% p.a. target for economic
growth would need to be revised downwards because of balance of payments
constraints. Some recent developments, such as the slowdown in the world
economy and the depressed world market prices for Pakistan's principal



-2-
exports (cotton and rice), have underlined the tenuous nature of Pakistan's
external balance.
5.      Against this background, there has been a continuation of the steady
process of rationalization and improvement of Pakistan's economic policy
framework. During the past 18-24 months this process has been assisted and
accelerated by the dialogue between GOP and Bank staff on structural policy
issues, leading to a close understanding on the reform measures needed to
avert a serious balance of payments problem in the second half of the 1980s.
The Government's reform program is focused on the rebuilding of an effective
planning system; concrete steps to implement a well-conceived National
Agricultural Policy; policy reforms to accelerate the development of Pakis-
tan's oil and gas potential; and rationalization of the industrial structure.
6.      The Government's reform program which would be supported by the
proposed structural adjustment lending (SAL), and its links with the EFF
program agreed with the IMF, are described in Part II: a summary of the
Government's medium-term objectives, steps already taken and the further
actions to be implemented is presented in Table 5 (pages 32-36). A copy of a
letter from the Government to the Bank outlining GOP's structural adjustment
policies is at Annex IV. The background to the choice of issues addressed
under the proposed SAL is provided by a brief review of past developments and
balance of payments prospects in the following paragraphs.
B. Economic Development to the Mid-1970s
7.      Sectoral policies and the allocation of investments during the 1960s
were effectively guided through a series of five-year plans. A significant
part of public investments was devoted to building up the infrastructural
base for agricultural growth by the construction of major irrigation works in
the Indus Basin, including the Mangla and Tarbela dams. In industry, public
sector involvement was small and emphasis was placed on the private sector.
However, the incentives and protection which were provided to the private
sector led to a bias towards import replacement and a concentration of
economic power held by a small number of bankers and industrialists.
8.      A series of major political disruptions took place from 1969 leading
up to the separation of Bangladesh at the end of 1971. The new Government
which came to power in Pakistan in 1971 reversed many of the policies of the
1960s. Most large industries, domestic banks and life insurance companies
were nationalized, with adverse effects on private investment and confidence.
Difficulty was experienced in absorbing these nationalized enterprises into
the public sector, leading to a general decline in industrial sector produc-
tivity. At the same time, the Government embarked on massive, long-gestation
public investments in industry (notably the Pakistan Steel Mill) and by 1977
public sector investment accounted for three quarters of total industrial
investment. The system of five-year plans was discontinued. From the
mid-1970s, public investments were allocated through annual development plans



-3-
which did not provide a framework for programming the future phasing of
development expenditures.
9.      In several respects, government policies in the early part of the
1970s were biased towards the improvement of welfare for urban wage earners.
Substantial wage increases took place as well as over-staffing of the newly
acquired public sector enterprises, while consumer interests were protected
by a combination of price controls and subsidies.  The agricultural sector
bore some of the burden of these policies. Output prices for domestically
consumed agricultural products were restrained to benefit consumers, while
prices for exportable products, such as rice and cotton, were kept well below
border prices in order to generate revenues to finance increased investments
and subsidies.
10.     In addition to large-scale investments in public sector industry and
the associated needs for infrastructure, there were continuing large outlays
on the major Indus Basin irrigation projects which had been commenced in the
1960s. However, these investments were not accompanied by adequate efforts
to utilize the irrigation water provided by these projects, to maintain
existing facilities, or to develop support services and other instruments
aimed at achieving sustained improvement in agricultural yields. The Govern-
ment became committed to a policy of increasing subsidization of agricultural
inputs as the principal means of promoting agricultural productivity.
11.     During the mid-1970s, following the first round of petroleum price
increases, there was extensive reliance on significantly increased external
borrowing, largely from OPEC sources, as well as excessive domestic borrow-
ing, in order to maintain the pace of public investment. This relaxation of
fiscal discipline led to an upsurge in domestic inflation and a depletion of
foreign exchange reserves.
C. Economic Reforms and Performance Since 1977
12.     The Government which came to power in 1977 embarked on a program of
reforms aimed at achieving financial stability, the revival of economic
growth and private sector confidence. Although a number of serious problems
remain, considerable progress has been made towards these objectives, despite
the 1979 oil crisis and political events in Afghanistan which necessitated
substantial outlays for refugee support and defense.
13.     Fiscal policies:   The Government has restored financial discipline
and the fiscal situation has improved considerably since FY80. The budgets
for FY80 and FY81 both included substantial tax measures. In addition, there
were major increases in the domestic prices of wheat, sugar, fertilizers,
petroleum products, railway fares and water charges, which reduced budgetary
subsidies and the deficits of public sector operations. Despite the
unplanned expenditures following events in Afghanistan and cost overruns on
the Pakistan Steel Mill and Tarbela Dam, tight spending restraints were



-4-
maintained. As a result, the domestic bank financed budget deficit was
reduced from 4.4% of GDP in FY79 to 1% by FY81.
14.     Development planning:  The preparation of a Fifth Five-Year Plan for
FY79-83 marked a resumption of development planning after a lapse of several
years. The Plan aimed to reorient agricultural policy away from a reliance
on subsidies towards programs to improve efficiency in the use of inputs, in
order to increase yields without an excessive burden on public resources; to
develop domestic energy resources; and to improve basic social services.
These shifts in priorities were to be achieved within an overall 10% p.a.
real increase in public sector investments, based on an assumed real growthl
of GDP of 7.5% p.a. and a real increase in national savings of over 12% p.a.
over the Plan period.
15.     These assumptions have proved to be optimistic.  Although performance
in certain areas (such as agricultural production and exports) were as high
as or higher than expected and the rate of growth of GDP averaged over 6%
p.a. between FY78 and FY81 (compared to 3.5% during the earlier part of the
1970s), national savings and external assistance fell well short of expecta-
tions. The proportion of development expenditures financed by net foreign
resources fell from over 70% in FY75 to 37% by FY77 and continued to decline
to less than 25% by FY81. In addition, major cost overruns were experienced
on ongoing projects and the cost of the fertilizer subsidy escalated much
faster than originally estimated. The shortage of resources, combined with
the need to limit overall budgetary deficits, necessitated a cutback in
planned investments and prevented the planned reallocation of public develop-
ment expenditures. Faced with these severe constraints, GOP resolved to
prepare a Three-Year Public Sector Development Program to cover the period
FY82-84 in order to make progress towards implementing the shifts in expendi-
tures originally envisaged under the Fifth Five-Year Plan (see also
paragraphs 38 to 46 below).
16.     Agriculture and water sector policies:  A major government study of
the development of irrigated agriculture in the Indus Basin was completed in
1979; the study was assisted by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency.
Three principal recommendations of this study have been adopted by GOP as the
core of a new agricultural development strategy announced in February 1980,
namely that there should be:
(a) a progressive adjustment of prices of key agricultural
inputs and outputs to reflect real resource costs,
thereby phasing out input subsidies while providing
appropriate incentives for increased production;
(b)  a gradual transfer of certain operations fron the public
to the private sector, notably the distribution of
agricultural inputs and the exploitation of fresh
groundwater; and



-5-
(c) a reorientation of expenditures to optimize the use of
existing facilities, as against further investment in
major new irrigation works.
17.      In line with this revised strategy, subsidies on pesticides have been
eliminated in the two major provinces (Punjab and Sind) and fertilizer sub-
sidies were reduced by raising fertilizer prices by 50% in February 1980. In
connection with the Fertilizer Imports Credit (Credit No. 1066-PAK dated
October 17, 1980), GOP has undertaken to eliminate fertilizer subsidies by
mid-1985.  Irrigation water charges have been increased by 75% over the past
four years. Crop procurement/support prices have been adjusted on several
occasions to maintain incentives for production and an Agricultural Prices
Commission has been established to provide a systematic basis for the con-
tinuing implementation of appropriate pricing policies. The process of
reorienting development expenditures in the agriculture and water sectors was
commenced in the FY81 Annual Development Program and has been carried for-
ward, with increased momentum, in the FY82-84 Public Sector Development
Program.
18.     Industrial policies:  The earlier policies of extensive nationaliza-
tions, tight restrictions on the private sector and rapid expansion of the
public sector have been reversed. A variety of measures have been taken to
revive private activity. Most agricultural processing and some industrial
units were denationalized in 1977-78 and constitutional safeguards have been
introduced against further arbitrary government acquisition. The areas open
to private investment have been considerably widened and a wide range of
incentives have been provided, including tax holidays, excise and import duty
concessions, easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary credit,
income tax provisions and direct cash rebates. Investment sanctioning proce-
dures have been progressively streamlined. These measures have led to a
steady recovery of private sector confidence as evidenced by the substantial
increase in investment proposals, approvals and commencements in the past
three years; private investment increased by 14% p.a. in real terms between
FY79 and FY81.
19.     Government policy towards public sector industry has been to complete
ongoing projects and to improve the performance of existing public
enterprises. A gradual decentralization of decision-making and delegation of
management responsibility to individual public enterprises have taken place.
The centralized Board of Industrial Management has been abolished and boards
of directors, in some cases with private representatives, have been estab-
lished for each enterprise. Managers of enterprises have been given
increased autonomy to adjust prices in order to improve profitability. By
FY80, there was a marked improvement in public sector performance: produc-
tion increased by 32% in real terms and overall net profits before tax rose
to Rs 590 million compared to only Rs 20 million in FY79.



-6-
20.     Energy sector policies:  As an oil importing country (nearly 90% of
petroleum requirements are met from imports), Pakistan has been seriously
affected by the sharp increases in world petroleum prices in 1973/74 and
again in 1979/80; the import bill for POL products increased from $150 mil-
lion in FY74 to $400 million in FY77 and to over US$1,500 million in FY81,
equivalent to nearly 50% of the f.o.b. value of exports. GOP has passed on
the impact of higher world prices for petroleum to consumers in order to
restrain demand. In addition, it has sought to accelerate the exploration
for new oil and gas resources in Pakistan; joint venture agreements have been
signed with a number of private oil companies for concessions in previously
unexplored areas.  The Government has also sought to reduce dependence on oil
imports by developing hydro-electric generating capacity and substituting
other fuels such as natural gas. Pakistan is one of the few developing
countries with an extensive gas distribution network based on domestic sup-
plies, and natural gas accounts for almost 40% of commercial energy use. A
35% increase in gas consumption between 1977 and 1980 helped reduce the
demand for oil imports. However, by 1980 serious shortages of gas had
emerged and it became evident that revised gas pricing and investment
policies were required in addition to measures to increase domestic oil
production from known fields, which had stagnated at around 10,000 bpd.
21.     Overall performance:  Although major problems remain, the economic
reform program implemented by GOP since 1977, together with favorable weather
conditions, has already resulted in a marked improvement in the economy.
Agricultural production has increased substantially and value added in
agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. between FY77 and FY81, in con-
trast to the earlier sluggish growth averaging 2.1% p.a. from FY72 to FY77.
The recovery in industrial activity and investment by the private sector, the
improvements in the performance of public sector manufacturing enterprises
and the completion of some public sector projects contributed to an average
8.0% p.a. growth in value added in industry over the same period. Conse-
quently, GDP grew by over 6% p.a. over four successive years to FY81, while
exports increased at an average rate of 13% p.a. in constant prices and 27%
p.a. in value terms.
22.     Monetary growth, which had reached 23-25% annually in the mid-1970s,
was reduced to below 15% p.a. by FY81. The Government's effective demand
management, combined with good harvests, held inflation to around 10% p.a.
during FY79 and FY80 and around 12-13% in FY81 despite external pressures and
substantial price increases in some key consumer items as part of GOP's
efforts to rationalize prices. While public consumption has been restrained,
private consumption was boosted by a rapid increase in remittances from
Pakistanis working in the Middle East, so that total consumption increased at
6.4% p.a. from FY77 to FY81, with gross national savings rising from 11% to
13% of GNP.



-7-
23.     Exports have grown slightly faster than imports over recent years
despite the impact on imports of higher petroleum prices, which have con-
tributed to a more than 25% reduction in Pakistan's terms of trade since
1978. However, since the value of imports was more than double the value of
exports in FY77, the trade deficit has continued to widen as shown in Table 1
below. The substantial increase in workers' remittances from the Middle East
has helped to limit the pressure on the balance of payments, so that the
current account deficit has been held approximately constant in nominal terms
and has declined from 6.8% to 3.3% of GNP between FY77 and FY81.
Table 1: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE, 1973/74-1982/83
(million US$)
1973/74    1976/77    1979/80    1980/81/a    1981/82/b    1982/83/c
Exports (f.o.b.)            1,020       1,132      2,341       2,798         2,796          3,400
Imports (f.o.b.)          -1,493      -2,418      -4,857      -5,563       -5,851         -6,630
Balance of trade            -473      -1,286      -2,516      -2,765        -3,055         -3,230
Workers' remittances          151         578      1,748       2,097         2,155          2,370
Other (net)                  -226       -344        -371        -323          -489           -622
Current account balance    -548       -1,052      -1,140        -991        -1,389        -1,482
Current account balance    -6.2         -6.8        -4.5         3.3           4.1            3.6
as % of GNP
/a  Provisional.
7T  Government estimates.
Th  Government and staff projections.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs; staff projections for 1982/83.
24.     The financing of these balance of payments deficits has continued to
cause difficulties. A serious crisis was avoided in 1979 only by temporary,
severe restrictions on imports and special emergency assistance from some
OPEC countries, as well as substantial short-term commercial borrowing.
However, in response to further improvements in Pakistan's economic manage-
ment and changed geopolitical situation since the invasion of Afghanistan,



-8-
external assistance has increased since FY80; in addition, an 18-month res-
cheduling of debt service due on official concessional loans from bilateral
members of the Pakistan Consortium was agreed in January 1981. Most impor-
tantly, GOP agreed with the IMF on a three-year Extended Fund Facility
program which is to provide SDR 1,268 million (over $1.4 billion) over three
years from November 1980; the contents of this program are discussed in Part
II below. Consequently, the short-term balance of payments situation
improved substantially by FY81.
25.     The balance of payments outlook for FY82 and FY83 is somewhat less
favorable, partly as a result of international economic conditions. World
markets for rice, raw cotton and cotton products are depressed, so that the
volume and average price of these exports are expected to decline. Despite
continued growth of other export items, the value of total exports for FY82
is expected to show little change from FY81. In addition, there has been a
relatively small increase in workers' remittances compared to earlier years.
Although imports are expected to decline in real terms (rising by only 5% in
value) due to the elimination of wheat and sugar imports, the reduction of
fertilizer imports and stable petroleum prices, the current account deficit
for FY82 is expected to widen to about US$1,400 million.  GOP has responded
to these difficult conditions by ending the fixed link of the Pakistan Rupee
with the recently appreciating US dollar; from January 1982 to the end of
April 1982 the exchange rate depreciated by 17% against the US dollar.   In
the anticipation of some recovery in the world economy, a revival of export
performance is projected for FY83 and, provided net inflows of assistance do
not fall below expectations, the balance of payments situation should remain
manageable at least up to FY84, though foreign exchange reserves may fall
slightly to a little over the equivalent of one month of imports of goods and
services. However, longer-term projections indicate that serious balance of
payments difficulties could re-emerge after that time unless major structural
changes in the economy are brought about.
D. Long-Term Balance of Payments Prospects
26.     The need for further coordinated policy reforms in broad areas of the
economy, aimed at a long-term strengthening of the balance of payments, is
underlined by an analysis of balance of payments prospects during the
remainder of this decade.l/ In order to achieve a modest 3% improvement in
incomes per head, GOP must seek to maintain a 6% p.a. rate of growth of GDP
1/ This section of the report is based on staff projections which are
presented (together with a full description of underlying assumptions)
in "Pakistan: Economic Developments and Prospects" (Report No.
3802-PAK), Chapter V. These projections are broadly consistent with the
Government's medium-term macro-economic objectives (see paragraph 30) and
have been discussed in detail with GOP officials.



-9-
through the 1980s.1/ Bank staff projections indicate that such growth will
place severe strain on the balance of payments from 1984 onwards and will
only be possible if it is based on strong efforts to promote savings and
exports and to limit imports through the promotion of efficient import
replacement, as well as further increases in commitments of external assis-
tance and a continued growth of workers' remittances. The Government agrees
with this assessment and the multi-sectoral program of reforms to support its
request for structural adjustment lending is designed to strengthen the
long-term balance of payments situation.
27.     The long-term projections indicate that, in addition to improving the
savings rate from 13% to 16% of GNP, a sustained growth of exports in the
order of 7-8% p.a. will be required throughout the 1980s while limiting the
growth of imports to around 6% p.a. (i.e., in line with the target growth
rate of GDP). Export growth of this order would be lower than experienced in
recent years, but would be significantly higher than the 4.5% p.a. average
achieved over the whole of the past decade; it would require continuing
improvements in agricultural yields in order to permit growing exports of
cotton and rice, a possible commencement of wheat exports, as well as further
growth of manufactured exports competitive at international prices.
Restraining the growth of imports would require improving self-sufficiency in
agriculture with increased emphasis on the domestic production of edible oil,
together with efficient import replacement in key industries such as fer-
tilizers and a substantial acceleration of domestic oil and gas production.
If these objectives can be attained, and workers' remittances continue to
increase by at least 10% p.a. (in nominal terms), it would be possible to
achieve a progressive reduction of the current account deficit from around 4%
of GNP expected over the next two years to below 3% by the latter part of the
decade.
28.     The financing of these deficits is, nevertheless, likely to pose
serious problems since the absolute size of the current account deficit is
likely to rise to, and remain in the order of, $2 billion per year. Unless
net inflows of official assistance increase steadily in real terms - which
cannot be safely assumed in present circumstances - a considerable proportion
of Pakistan's capital requirements will need to be financed from commercial
1/ The Government attaches high priority to the reduction of the current 3%
p.a. growth of population and has adopted a new strategy for addressing
this problem which seeks to overcome the shortcomings encountered by past
efforts at family planning. The revised Population Welfare Plan,
approved by the Cabinet in November 1980, is based on a multi-sector
approach which recognizes that a reduction in fertility rates requires
fundamental changes in attitudes as well as improved delivery of serv-
ices. GOP has sought the Bank's assistance in implementing this Plan and
a Population Welfare Project is being appraised.



-10-
sources. Commercial borrowing is expected to be needed in increasing amounts
from FY84 onwards, rising gradually to provide up to 50% of gross capital
inflows, or over $1 billion per year. Staff projections indicate that,
provided sound policies are followed to strengthen the balance of payments,
such increasing amounts of borrowing on commercial terms could be undertaken
while keeping the ratio of debt service to the exports of goods and services
(including factor services) below 20% throughout the 1980s. However, given
Pakistan's presently very limited access to international capital markets, it
will not be easy to obtain such large amounts of finance. Over the past two
years Pakistan has been able to obtain substantial short-term borrowings on
gradually improved terms, but it still faces the task of establishing credit-
worthiness for longer-term borrowing from private capital markets. In this
situation, the vigorous pursuit of further structural reform of the economy
will not only help to keep the external financial requirements of sustained
growth to manageable proportions but will also serve to inprove Pakistan's
ability to obtain the necessary finance on acceptable terms.
PART II - STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND THE GOVERNMENT'S
REFORM PROGRAM
29.     Following the re-establishment of economic stability and a marked
improvement in performance, GOP has moved purposefully towards implementing
structural reforms designed to turn the recent recovery into a period of
sustained growth through the 1980s. Over the past 18-24 months, there has
been an intensive and fruitful dialogue between GOP officials and Bank as
well as IMF staff on necessary reform measures to support access to the IMF's
Extended Fund Facility and the proposed first phase of a program of struc-
tural adjustment lending. Bank staff participated in draxiing up the sectoral
policy measures of the EFF program; the SAL program is designed to reinforce
and build on those initiatives.
30.     The Government's medium-term economic objectives are to improve
productivity, domestic resource mobilization and growth together with the
promotion of exports, efficient import substitution and liberalized access to
imports. The macro-economic targets for the Sixth Five-Year Plan period
(FY84-88) have been tentatively set as follows:
(a) GDP is to grow at 6.5% p.a. with growth rates of 5% p.a. and 10%
p.a. set for agriculture and manufacturing, respectively;
(b)  Gross national savings are to be increased from the current 13%
to 16% of GNP by means of additional taxation measures, reduc-
tions in subsidies and internal profit generation by public
enterprises through the pursuit of flexible pricing policies;
-    (c)  An increase in the share of investment to GNP from the present
16% is to be promoted to the maximum extent consistent with



"-I1-
improvements in savings and trade performance. The proportion
of private to total investment is to be increased from around
one third to 50%;
(d) Domestic credit expansion is to be kept in line with the nominal
growth of GNP in order to help to reduce and keep the inflation
rate around or below 10% p.a.;
(e) Fiscal deficits financed from the domestic monetary system are
to be kept around 2%; and
(f) The current account deficit or the balance of payments is to be
gradually reduced from around 4% to 2.5% of GNP by FY88.
31.     The proposed SAL program reflects the Government's recognition of the
need for an integrated package of reforms covering several important sectors
in order to help achieve these economic objectives. The program would follow
up and carry forward a number of critical actions already initiated by GOP in
the fields of development planning, agriculture and water, energy and
industry. In some cases, these actions would be supported by studies and
other activities to be financed by a proposed IDA Technical Assistance
Project; documents for this Credit are being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors for their consideration. The principal aspects of the
SAL program are as follows:
(a) As noted in Part I above, GOP has drawn up a revised Three-Year
Public Sector Development Program for FY82-84 to achieve a
redirection in the pattern of public investments. This program
represents a major first step in the reorientation of government
expenditures. The FY82-84 program is to be "rolled over" to
cover FY83-85 to continue this process and will be followed by
the preparation and implementation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(FY84-88);
(b) Further steps will be taken towards the implementation of GOP's
revised National Agricultural Policy by (i) adjusting agricul-
tural input and output prices to provide appropriate production
incentives while reducing subsidies, guided by recommendations
from the newly established Agricultural Prices Commission;
(ii) the rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance
of the existing irrigation system, financed to an increasing
extent through user charges; (iii) the preparation of new
high-priority projects and programs in line with the new policy
directions; and (iv) a progressive diversification of agricul-
ture;
(c) GOP will implement recently adopted major reforms to its energy
policies, particularly in the oil and gas sectors. Producer and



-12-
consumer gas pricing policies have been revised; the public
sector Oil and Gas Development Corporation is being reorganized
along more commercial lines; and a better balance is being
sought between the respective roles of the public and private
sectors in developing Pakistan's hydrocarbon potential. A
long-term energy plan is to be drawn up in order to integrate
the development of all potential energy sources over a 10-year
planning horizon; and
(d) In addition to continuing import liberalization under the EFF
program and other ongoing measures to revitalize industry, with
particular emphasis on private sector involvement, GOP will
implement a program of policy analysis and preliminary actions
to rationalize industrial incentives and initiate a systematic
performance evaluation and incentive system for public rnanufac-
turing industries. This is designed to lead up to a comprehen-
sive program of industrial reforms which could be supported by a
second round of structural adjustment lending to Pakistan.
32.     Since the EFF and the proposed SAL programs complement and reinforce
each other, a detailed description of the SAL program is preceded below by a
brief outline of the salient features of the program agreed with the IMF.
A. The Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Program
33.     The EFF program sets out the agreed macro-economic framework for the
Government's overall reform efforts for the three years from November 1980 to
November 1983. The program's objectives include a 5-6% p.a. real growth in
GDP, an increase in investment from 16.5% to 17.3% of GNP and an increase in
the savings ratio from 12% to 14% of GNP, while limiting domestic inflation
to an average rate of 10% p.a. and the balance of payments current account
deficit to about 4.0% of GNP during the last two years of the program.
34.     A continuation of GOP's stabilization policies to bring about a
reduction in the size of budgetary deficits and the rate of growth of the
money supply forms the demand side of the EFF program. To attain these
objectives, the program calls for continued expenditure restraint, including
an undertaking to reduce subsidies in real terms, and improved revenue per-
formance to limit government recourse to domestic bank financing. To assist
in restraining price increases to an average of 10% p.a., the average rate of
growth of domestic liquidity is to be limited to 14-15% p.a., slightly below
the projected increase in nominal GDP. To reserve adequate credit for
private financing within these overall ceilings, fiscal deficits and domestic
borrowing by public enterprises are to be curtailed; net bank credit to
Government (for both budgetary and commodity operations) is to be held to an
average of about 2% of GDP for FY81-83. GOP has adhered closely to these
targets. The first year of the program has been completed, objectives for
the second year have been agreed and detailed targets for the third year will



-13-
be finalized during 1982. As indicated in paragraph 30 above, GOP's
longer-term economic targets to FY88 are broadly consistent with, and in
several cases are more ambitious than, the parameters which have been agreed
for the 1980-83 period.
35.     The EFF program supports a phased program of import liberalization to
reform Pakistan's restrictive import policy under which all items not
explicitly on a free list or tied list (i.e., tied to purchases from specific
sources) are implicitly banned. By the end of the program, the number of
banned items are to be sharply reduced, bans replaced by tariffs where
appropriate, and the transition from a "positive list" (permitted imports) to
a "negative list" (prohibited imports) completed. Temporary quantitative
ceilings on importable items, imposed during the period of acute foreign
exchange shortage in 1979, were all lifted by December 1980. At the same
time, virtually all previously prohibited basic raw materials were added to
the list of permitted items and a number of commodities (including cement),
previously only importable by the public sector, were pernitted to be
imported by the private sector. In July 1981, 212 previously banned items
were added to the free list, 36 items were transferred from the tied list to
the free list and more items on the free list permitted for import by the
private sector. The liberalization process will be continued so that the
present proportion of industry protected by bans or restrictions
(approximately two thirds) will be reduced by at least 40% by the end of the
program period.
36.     Until the end of 1981, the exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee had
been fixed since 1973 at Rs 9.9/US$1. As noted in paragraph 25 above, fol-
lowing indications that exports had been adversely affected by the relative
strength of the US$ over the previous 18 months, the rupee was delinked from
the UJS$ in January 1982. Its value is now being fixed daily by the State
Bank of Pakistan with reference to a basket of currencies of Pakistan's major
trading partners. Under these new arrangements, the Pakistan authorities
intend to manage the exchange rate in a flexible manner to help maintain
export competitiveness in world markets. The exchange rate adjustments up to
the end of April 1982 represented an 11% devaluation against a basket of
currencies of major trading partners. In order to stimulate exports, GOP has
also progressively extended the range of standard rebates of import and
excise duties on imported inputs; provided for rebates of income taxes on
profits from exports; and reduced minimum pricing and other restrictions on
export transactions. An Export Processing Zone is being developed outside
Karachi.
37.     The EFF program also includes a number of sectoral reform measures
including undertakings to reform pricing and other incentives. These were
included in the program after close consultation with the Bank and are con-
sistent with the further reforms to be pursued under the proposed SAL
program; they are discussed under appropriate sector headings (see also the
tabular presentation of the Government's reform program on pages 32-36).



-14-
B. The Proposed SAL Program
I. Development Planning
38.     Since 1977, GOP has placed high priority on reviving and strengthen-
ing the planning system. However, in its efforts to restore forward plan-
ning, the Government has faced serious difficulties owing to unanticipated
shortfalls in available resources, the absorption of resources to complete
large, long-gestation projects, and the reduced capacity of the planning
agency due to the loss of key personnel. As already noted, such shortfalls
in resources, coupled with the need to maintain fiscal balance, led to a
decline in public real investment during the first two years of the Fifth
Plan (FY79-83) and prevented the intended shift of resources toward
high-priority projects in agriculture, water, energy and the social sectors.
Since that time, increased aid commitments, debt relief and the EFF arrange-
ments, coupled with improved public savings, have increased the availability
of resources and provided a basis for a reassessment of the public sector
development program over the medium-term. GOP has responded positively to
this opportunity and, following discussions with Fund and Bank staff, a
revised Public Sector Development Program was drawn up for FY82 to FY84 to
reorient public expenditures in the direction intended in the Fifth Plan.
39.     The revised Three-Year Program is set within the macro-economic
framework of the EFF program and is consistent with a cautious estimate of
domestic and foreign resources available to finance public sector development
expenditures. The expected growth of development expenditures under the
Federal and Provincial Annual Development Programs for those years and the
proposed financing plan are shown in Table 2.



-15-
Table 2: THREE-YEAR PUBLIC SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FY82-84
PROVINCIAL SHARES AND OVERALL FINANCING PLAN
(Rs billion)
FY81         FY82          FY83      FY84
(provisional)  (budget          (projection)
estimates)
A. Development Expenditures
Federal Government                             20.3         23.1        25.4       26.3
Provincial Governments                          4.6          5.8         6.9        8.4
Total annual development programs              25.0         28.9        32.4       34.7
B. Financing Plan
Domestic sources                               19.3         20.7        24.8       26.9
Contributions from current budgets           12.0         14.0        16.0       18.3
Federal Govt.           (7.5)       (10.3)      (11.7)     (13.5)
Provincial Govts.       (2.5)        (1.2)       (1.1)      (1.1)
Autonomous bodies       (2.0)        (2.6)       (3.1)      (3.7)
Domestic non-bank sources                     4.9          1.2         3.0        2.3
Domestic bank borrowing                       2.3          5.4         5.8        6.4
External sources (net)                          5.7          8.2         7.6        7.8
Gross disbursements                           9.3         14.2        12.0       12.5
Amortization                                  3.6          6.1         4.5        4.8
C. External sources (net)/total
development expenditure                      (23%)        (28%)       (23%)      (22%)
Source: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs.
40.     Total development expenditures over the three years are projected to
increase at 9.4% p.a., thus remaining approximately constant in real terms.
After a large increase in foreign inflows in FY82 following increased aid
commitments in 1980 and 1981, foreign inflows available for financing
development expenditures are assumed to decline, so that the proportion of
total development expenditure financed by net foreign inflows would decline
once again to below 25% in contrast to the much higher proportions financed
by external assistance during much of the 1970s. Recurrent expenditures and



-16-
government revenues are assumed to grow approximately in line with GDP, so
that the current budget surplus expands in real terms to finance a gradually
greater share of the total development program. As a consequence, government
borrowing from the banking system is expected to remain below 2% of GDP. The
increase in revenue which is assumed to result from additional measures
appears to be manageable over the three-year period while the assumptions
regarding foreign economic assistance may prove to be conservative. Thus,
projected expenditures appear to be adequately covered by a realistic
estimate of prospective available resources.
41.     Although the total Public Sector Development Program is expected to
remain constant in real terms over the next three years, a major shift in
allocations towards the agriculture, water, energy and social sectors is to
be accomplished through the planned decline in expenditures on the fertilizer
subsidy and on public sector industry which are to decline sharply in nominal
terms and as a share of total expenditures; this major, structural shift in
priorities is clearly illustrated in Table 3. Because a substantial part of
the development program in agriculture and in the social sectors is a provin-
cial responsibility, provincial expenditures are to be expanded much more
rapidly than federal and their share in total development expenditures is to
grow from 18% to 24% between FY81 and FY84.
Table 3: SECTORAL SHARES IN NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM/a
(percentages)
FY81        FY84
Agriculture (including rural development)           7.3         10.5
Subsidy on fertilizer                               9.2          2.9
Water                                              11.8         13.7
Energy (including power and fuels)                 20.7         27.8
Industry (including minerals)                      15.6          4.9
Physical planning and housing                       6.9          7.9
Transport, communications and mass media           18.7         20.7
Education (including manpower)                      5.0          6.1
Health (including population planning)              4.1          4.8
Other sectors                                       0.7          0.7
Total                                           100.0        100.0
/a  The national program is the total of the federal and four
provincial programs.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs.



-17-
42.     The direction of investments in the agriculture and water sectors are
in line with the 1980 National Agricultural Policy Statement and form an
important part of GOP's policies to improve productivity in the vital
agricultural sector. These investments are described in more detail in
paragraphs 51 to 56 below.
43.     Consistent with the Government's objective of reducing the role of
the public sector in manufacturing, development expenditures on industry are
expected to fall from Rs 4 billion to Rs 1.4 billion or from 15.3% to 4.1% of
total allocations during FY81-84. About 80% of the allocation to industry
will be for the Pakistan Steel Mill expected to be completed in FY84. Most
of the remaining expenditures are for the completion of other ongoing
projects, mainly in cement, metal works and chemicals. Upon completion of
the ongoing projects, public enterprises will be expected to meet their
investment requirements through self-financing or through foreign and domes-
tic borrowing.
44.     In response to the rapid rise in international energy prices, GOP is
planning for major increases in expenditures on the development of domestic
energy resources. Expenditures on the power and fuel sectors are to increase
at an average rate of 23% p.a. and 14% p.a., respectively, over the
three-year period. Of the total allocation of Rs 16 billion for the power
sector, Rs 6 billion is for generation, Rs 7 billion for transmission and Rs
3 billion for additional distribution facilities in order to achieve balanced
power development. A rural electrification program to provide electricity to
nearly 4,000 additional villages will also provide infrastructure for private
tubewell development. The allocation to the fuel sector includes further
exploration and development work by the Oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC), improvements in the gas transmission network, and the Government's
participation in joint ventures with private petroleum companies. The
revised development program in oil, gas and power forms part of a broader set
of energy sector initiatives described in paragraphs 64 to 78 below.
45.     The share of expenditures on transport and communications is to
increase slightly from 18% to 20% of total annual development expenditures
over the three-year period. Emphasis is to be placed on the completion of
ongoing schemes (the most important of which is Phase I of Port Qasim) by
FY84 and the rehabilitation and capacity improvements of existing road and
rail networks.  Investment in telephones and telegraph is intended to augment
capacity to cope with an anticipated 14% annual growth in traffic.
46.     While GOP's immediate attention has been focused on the productive
sectors, the FY82-84 program also marks a shift in resources towards the
social sectors which have been seriously neglected in the past. The educa-
tion program emphasizes the primary and secondary levels and vocational



-18-
training. The health program continues to accord high priority to the con-
struction of rural health facilities and training of paramedical personnel.
Higher allocations are also included to support an intensified population
planning effort.
47.     GOP is following up the FY82-84 Public Sector Development Program by
the preparation of a similar program for FY83-85. This program, which will
be extended to cover major public enterprise investments financed outside the
budget, will provide a further opportunity to reorient investments toward the
priority sectors. The FY83-85 program will be reviewed with Bank staff in
October/November 1982. These three-year public sector development programs
are designed to provide an effective linkage between the longer-term perspec-
tives of Pakistan's Five-Year Plans and the financing decisions reflected in
the annual development programs which are approved as part of the budget
cycle. Through a process of timely review, GOP intends to ensure that the
implementation of public sector development projects remains closely in line
with the objectives of longer-term plans, while keeping total outlays in line
with available resources and shorter-term economic stabilization policies.
48.     A Sixth Five-Year Plan, covering FY84 to FY88 and retaining the basic
objectives of the agreed structural reform program, is currently being
prepared. The Sixth Plan will provide a longer-term perspective for develop-
ment, specifying macro-economic targets (set out in paragraph 30 above),
identifying supporting sectoral policies, and outlining strategies and
investment programs for the key sectors. For the first two years of the
Sixth Plan, the phasing of public investment expenditures will be consistent
with the FY83-85 Three-Year Development Program. A mid-Plan review will be
conducted at the end of FY85 to assess progress toward targets, evaluate
available resources and adjust expenditures as necessary for the remainder of
the period. In this way, GOP will retain the flexibility to adjust to such
factors as fluctuations in international commodity prices, migrant remittan-
ces and the availability of external assistance, while avoiding the major
disruptions which marked the implementation of the Fifth Five-Year Plan.
49.     The revival of development planning in Pakistan has been accompanied
by the revitalization and strengthening of the Government's planning
capability. A highly regarded and experienced economist has recently been
appointed to the previously vacant, key position of Deputy Chairman of the
Planning Commission, with the Finance Minister taking up the position of
Chairman.  More high-level staff are expected to be appointed shortly and
various forms of technical assistance are being sought. In addition, GOP has
taken steps to safeguard planned priorities by requiring the active involve-
ment of the Planning Commission at all stages of the project selection
process. The project selection and approval process, which was reviewed by
the Bank during the preparation of the proposed SAL, is designed to ensure
that all projects included in the program are evaluated to check their con-
sistency with government priorities and objectives and meet appropriate tests



-19-
of economic efficiency. Finally, the central monitoring of project implemen-
tation is also being strengthened by an expansion in the number and
capability of the project monitoring staff of the planning organization.
II. The Agriculture and Water Sectors
50.     As outlined in Part I, GOP has revised its agriculture and water
sector policies following in-depth studies and dialogue with Bank staff.
The Government's medium-term action program is directed toward the rapid
implementation of the 1980 National Agricultural Policy through: (a) the
reorientation of public expenditure programs in the agriculture and water
sectors, particularly towards the more efficient use and maintenance of
existing facilities; (b) continued adjustments of prices and other charges to
reduce subsidies and to provide incentives for increasing the productivity of
land and other key inputs; and (c) a progressive diversification of agricul-
ture.
51.     Reorientation of public expenditures: Past investments in the
agriculture and water sectors have created a substantial infrastructure,
giving Pakistan the potential to manage its water supplies to meet crop
requirements and to increase crop yields substantially. Carefully targeted
expenditures are now required to exploit this potential by improving the
efficiency of the irrigation system.
52.     It has been estimated that, at present, more than one-half the gross
inflow of water into the irrigation system is lost through seepage and per-
colation. These losses have reduced crop production and, together with low
utilization rates of public tubewells, have contributed to a serious drainage
problem; in about 60% of the Indus Basin the water table is within 10 feet of
the land surface. Investments such as watercourse improvements and canal
rehabilitation not only promise high returns but would also reduce the need
for investments in drainage.
53.     The importance of such investments in irrigation has been recognized
by GOP and the revised Three-Year Public Sector Development Program provides
for a shift of public expenditures in the water sector towards:
(a) the rehabilitation and adequate operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system;
(b) improving water conservation through the implementation of minor
works, primarily below the canal outlet, such as watercourse and
on-farm improvements, which together with more optimal water
scheduling would permit available irrigation water supplies to
be used more efficiently;



-20-
(c) enhancing water supplies while reducing public sector expendi-
tures through promotion of private tubewell development in
usable groundwater areas (including areas now under public
tubewells); and
(d) necessary drainage in waterlogged and saline areas to complement
the existing surface distribution and tubewell system.
54.     Within the agriculture sector, the pattern of expenditures planned
for FY82-84 indicates a marked shift from the past emphasis on fertilizer
subsidies towards a more balanced development program which provides for
increased expenditures on foodgrain storage, rural roads, agricultural
research, extension services (through the training and visit system and
extensive use of radio broadcasts), increased production of quality seeds,
improved credit facilities and other essential complementary activities.
55.     As Table 4 shows, while the proportion of total development expendi-
tures devoted to agriculture and water is to remain roughly constant at
27-28% during the three years to FY84, a substantial shift of resources is to
rake place within each sector. In agriculture, the share devoted to the
fertilizer subsidy is to fall from 9.2% to 2.9% of total development expendi-
tures, with the share allocated to agricultural investment rising from 5.3%
to 9.2% of the total; since the major thrust of the agricultural program is
in areas that are provincial responsibilities, the provincial share would
rise much more rapidly than the federal. Federal allocations to the water
sector (excluding Tarbela) are to be sharply increased, as shown, with the
proportion of allocations to drainage and reclamation rising from 40% of the
total in FY81 to 50% in FY84.



-21-
Table 4: ALLOCATIONS FOR THE AGRICULTURAL AND WATER SECTORS, FY82-84
(Rs millions: % shares of total development expenditures)
FY81           FY82            FY83            FY84
Agriculture                  3,878  (14.5)  3,672  (12.6)  4,401  (13.6)  4,197  12.1)
Fertilizer subsidy         2,448   (9.2)  1,950   (6.7)  1,589   (4.9)    997  (2.9)
Other federal                708   (2.6)    910   (3.1)  1,240   (3.8)  1,286  (3.7)
Provincial                   722   (2.7)    812   (2.8)  1,572   (4.9)  1,914  (5.5)
Water                        3,153  (11.8)  3>971  (13.6)  4,271  (13.2)  4,748  (13.7)
Tarbela/Indus
Basin                    1,007   (3.8)  1,346   (4.6)    882   (2.7)    731   (2.1)
Other federal              1,598   (6.0)  1,955   (6.7)  2,627   (8.1)  3,062   (8.8)
Provincial                   548   (2.0)    670   (2.3)    762   (2.4)    955   (2.8)
Rural Development /a           507   (1.9)    739   (2.5)    385   (1.2)    445   (1.3)
Totals with fertilizer
subsidy and
Tarbela/Indus
Basin                    7,538  (28.3)  8,382  (28.7)  9,057  (28.0)  9,390  (27.1)
Totals without
Fertilizer subsidy
and Tarbela/Indus
Basin                    4,083  (15.3)  5,086  (17.4)  6,586  (20.3)  7,662  (22.1)
/a Rural development consists of activities which lend support
to agriculture such as the construction of farm-to-market roads,
improved storage facilities, and soil conservation.
Source: Annual Development Plans and the Three-Year Public Sector
Development Program.
56.     These shifts in expenditures will be reviewed and carried further
during the preparation of the FY83-85 and subsequent public sector develop-
ment programs. This continued reorientation of investment programs in
agriculture and water will be aided by the preparation of further
high-priority projects in these sectors including: (a) projects to give
effect to GOP's "SCARP Transition Program," designed to promote private
tubewell development in usable groundwater areas through investments in rural
electrification, supervised credit schemes and other measures. Wherever



-22-
practicable, GOP intends to phase out and/or divest public tubewells to the
private sector in order to reduce the heavy budgetary cost of operation and
maintenance; (b) drainage projects in saline areas; (c) projects to improve
the efficiency of water use in selected canal command areas; and
(d) complementary agricultural projects. This major project preparation
effort, which is to take place over the next 18-24 months, would be supported
by the proposed IDA Technical Assistance Project and by a UNDP technical
assistance project for which the Bank is executing agency.
57.     In addition to the reorientation of development expenditures, the
Government's program also provides for additional spending on the operation
and maintenance of the canal system and public tubewells to prevent further
deterioration of existing facilities and to reduce the extent of waterlog-
ging. GOP has recognized that Provincial Governments face severe constraints
in financing such expenditures and a special allocation of Rs 150 million was
made in the FY82 Federal Budget to enhance the funds available to the provin-
ces for canal maintenance. GOP has undertaken to increase budgetary alloca-
tions for canal maintenance substantially in real terms during the coming
years in order to meet the requirements (as estimated in consultation with
the Bank) for the operation and maintenance of the surface irrigation system
by FY85. In the short term, GOP also intends to increase allocations con-
siderably to meet the full requirements for the operation and maintenance of
existing public tubewells. In the medium to long term, as noted in paragraph
56 above, emphasis will be placed on the promotion of private investment in
subsurface irrigation in order to reduce the necessity for public sector
involvement in this area.
58.     To help finance these enhanced operation and maintenance expenditures
for irrigation, water charges and/or other levies on the supply of irrigation
and drainage services will be increased. Since, according to Bank estimates,
expenditures on the surface irrigation system alone would need to be doubled
to raise maintenance standards to the agreed satisfactory levels, an increase
in user charges to cover all operation and maintenance outlays must neces-
sarily be phased. GOP has already increased water charges by 25% per year in
three of the last four years and intends to increase charges further (at
intervals of not more than two years, subject to any necessary legislative
approval) or make other appropriate financing arrangements to achieve full
cost recovery in accordance with final deadlines for various provinces as
agreed with the Association.l/
1/ A number of these undertakings concerning increased expenditures on the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation system and periodic increases
in water charges reflect agreements concluded with the Federal and
Provincial Governments in connection with the Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project which was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 4, 1982.



-23-
59.     Agricultural pricing policies:  The Government intends to continue
its policy of periodic adjustments to agricultural input/output prices in
order to align them with long-term trends in international prices and to
provide appropriate incentives to producers while reducing input subsidies to
release resources for other high-priority expenditures. The 50% increase in
fertilizer prices in February 1980 reversed the previous rapid escalation in
the subsidy bill; in the absence of such price increases the fertilizer
subsidy would have reached US$375 million in FY80, whereas it was contained
to US$250 million in FY81 and is estimated at US$200 million in FY82.
60.     Further fertilizer price increases averaging around 10% were
announced in March 1982, with relatively larger increases imposed on
nitrogenous fertilizers. The Government intends to make further adjustments
in order to meet the targets for reducing the subsidy set in the FY82-84
Public Sector Development Program, as well as to reach its objective of
eliminating the subsidy by mid-1985 as agreed under the 1980 Fertilizer
Imports Credit. Remaining pesticide subsidies are to be eliminated by 1983.
Present domestic farmgate prices for agricultural produce are generally below
world prices, so that it will be possible to compensate farmers for increased
costs resulting from the gradual removal of the fertilizer subsidy in the
short term. In the longer run, a continuing policy of incentive crop prices
together with reduced input subsidies will need to be accompanied by a
gradual improvement of yields and crop diversification. These objectives are
being pursued through the extension, research, water management and other
programs included in the FY82-84 Development Program.
61.     In view of the complexities of input/output price relationships in
the agricultural sector, the Government has determined that the recently
established Agricultural Prices Commission (APC) will play a central role in
guiding future pricing decisions. The APC's terms of reference, drawn up in
consultation with the Bank, direct APC to provide consistent and timely
recommendations on appropriate input and output prices, based on scientific
analysis of farm-level data and the effects of prices on productivity, con-
sumers, and the international competitiveness of Pakistan's agricultural
produce. The Commission is to be adequately staffed by June 1982 and its
initial work program, based on an outline agreed with the Bank, will be
directed toward designing a system for the collection of farm-level data;
initiating and assisting the collection of information on international
prices and production of Pakistan's major crops; and developing methods of
measuring the impact of price recommendations on consumers' and farmers' real
incomes. This work program is to lead to the development of a methodology
for preparing price recommendations (with supporting analysis) on a timely
basis. Assistance in these areas would be provided under the proposed Tech-
nical Assistance Project.
62.     Diversification of agriculture:  GOP's 1980 National Agricultural
Policy stresses the importance of a balanced emphasis on all aspects of
agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and new crops in addition to the



-24-
four existing major crops of wheat, rice, cotton and sugarcane. The most
intensive effort toward diversification in the immediate future will be to
increase the domestic supply of oilseeds. Since the present supply of edible
oil is mostly a by-product of cotton production and specialized oilseed crops
are not grown on an extensive scale, domestic production has not been able to
increase in step with the rapid growth of consumer demand and the import bill
has risen rapidly to US$300 million a year.
63.     To remedy this situation, the Government has created a high-level
Oilseed Development Board to advise on both the agricultural and processing
aspects of increasing oilseeds and edible oil production. An oilseed
development plan has been drawn up to promote a rapid expansion in acreage
for three non-traditional oilseeds (sunflowers, soyabeans and safflower) with
supporting pricing and input supply programs for increasing crop yields; a
gradual improvement in the yields of the traditional oilseeds (rape and
mustard); and improved extraction techniques. A substantial expansion in
acreage (from 11,000 to 85,000 acres) under non-traditional oilseeds is
planned over the next three years. For the traditional oilseeds, the prin-
cipal effort is to be made through the extension system and an annual 5%
increase in yields has been targeted. Technical assistance has been provided
by UNDP/FAO and is expected from USAID. To improve the extraction rate, a
program to rehabilitate oil extraction plants is being planned with assis-
tance from UNDP/FAO.
III. The Energy Sector
64.     Pakistan possesses a range of alternative commercial as well as
traditional energy sources. There is considerable scope for further develop-
ment of each of these sources. Of the estimated potential of 10,000 MW which
could be economically generated from hydro-electricity, about 20% has so far
been harnessed; there has been no significant use of coal for thermal power
generation to date; and there are sizable known reserves of natural gas, and
reasonably good prospects for discoveries of additional commercial oil and
gas fields. Since large capital requirements and long lead times are needed
to increase the available supply of energy from non-petroleum sources, GOP's
short-term response to the increased cost of imported energy is focused on
the accelerated development of Pakistan's oil and gas potential. Over the
longer term, a coordinated development of economically efficient alternative
domestic energy sources is to be promoted.
65.     In order to reverse a trend of increasing petroleum imports and avert
the prospect of an increasingly serious shortage of natural gas supplies, GOP
has recently revised its previous approach to setting producer prices of
domestic crude oil and natural gas; taken steps to devise a realistic gas
supply development strategy; and initiated institutional and managerial
reforms of the public sector Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC). In
addition, GOP has recognized the need for a stepped-up effort in petroleum
exploration and is endeavoring to promote the role of private companies in



-25-
this effort. These policy developments are taking place under the
strengthened leadership of the Ministry of Petroleum and Niatural Resources
within an overall policy framework determined by a high-level National Energy
Policy Committee (chaired by the Minister for Finance) which was established
in 1980. A special committee chaired by the Governor of the State Bank was
set up in June 1981 to resolve a number of urgent pricing issues in the oil
and gas sectors and agreements have already been reached with private
producers which will lead to substantially increased investments.
66.     Crude oil production and exploration:  The first important step in
GOP's recent efforts to improve domestic oil production has been to
renegotiate the pricing and production agreement with the major existing
private producer, Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL). Under the terms of a
1978 agreement with POL, output from the company's Meyal field was to expand
from 9,000 to 17,000 barrels per day by 1983. The well-head price of crude
oil was set at Rs 44 per barrel, which at that time was judged to be adequate
to cover expected production and investment costs over the five years and
yield an adequate rate of return to the producer. However, drilling costs
turned out to be considerably higher than originally expected, while produc-
tion per well was below estimates. In view of these developments, a new
pricing formula has recently been agreed between GOP and POL under which the
price of crude oil produced from new wells at Meyal will be substantially
increased to 30% of the import parity price.
67.     This new arrangement has a number of important advantages over the
previous fixed average price. Firstly, the new arrangements recognize the
considerably higher marginal cost of additional, as compared to existing,
production and provide a positive incentive for the continuation of drilling
at the Meyal field. Secondly, the new approach contains an explicit linkage
to the economic value of the product rather than merely to expected costs;
under the new arrangements, there will be an automatic incentive for an
accelerated development program if the world price of oil were to increase
further. This arrangement is expected to provide sufficient funds to com-
plete an agreed development program of eight additional wells by 1987 in
order to achieve the originally planned increase in the rate of production.
GOP has indicated to the Bank that the well-head price will be kept under
review to ensure that an adequate incentive is maintained for additional
economic investments (for example, in secondary recovery).
68.     GOP is also taking steps to improve operations at the Toot field,
which is being developed by OGDC with assistance from IDA and other donors
(Credit No. 867-PAK of January 12, 1979). Although performance at Toot has
recently improved, the pace of drilling and production has been well below
original expectations due to a number of factors including technical dif-
ficulties (in part due to complex geology), the loss of skilled personnel to
the private sector and to oil companies in the Middle East, and deficiencies
in the management structure of OGDC. These problems are being addressed in
the short term by the recruitment of a team of experts to assist OGDC. In



-26-
the medium term, there is to be a progressive reorganization of OGDC along
more commercial lines (see paragraph 76).
69.     Since 1976 GOP has signed a number of joint venture exploration
agreements with private oil companies for concessions in previously unex-
plored areas. Under these agreements the price for "new oil" from any dis-
coveries in these concession areas would be linked to international prices
(the domestic well-head price would be reduced by a 12.5% royalty and a
negotiated domestic price differential in the range of 10-12.5%) and the
maximum share of profits accruing to the Government has been fixed in these
agreements at 50-55%. The agreements also provide for OGDC to participate up
to an agreed share in the development of any commercial discovery. The terms
of these agreements are consistent with accepted international petroleum
industry practice and provide a strong incentive for exploration in Pakistan.
Seven exploratory wells were drilled in FY81 and a further eight are due to
be drilled in FY82. One small commercial discovery has resulted so far from
these efforts.
70.     Although the present pace of exploration is a significant improvement
over the early 1970s, it remains low relative to Pakistan's hydrocarbon
potential. A principal reason for this is that some of the more obviously
promising structures are held under license by OGDC, which because of its
financial and technical limitations can only sustain a modest exploration
effort. In order to step up the pace of exploration of OGDC-held areas, the
Government has recently decided to invite private sector participation in
exploring these prospects, either through joint ventures or through contracts
for exploratory drilling by private companies. GOP intends to negotiate
appropriate terms for participation in the development of 10 to 15 structures
to supplement OGDC's own exploration efforts and some of these negotiations
should be completed during 1982. GOP has also requested assistance from the
Bank for geological and geophysical studies to identify additional prospec-
tive structures.
71.     Natural gas production and pricing:  Although the Government's suc-
cessful promotion of the use of natural gas has dampened the adverse effect
of rising world energy prices on Pakistan's economy, shortages of gas have
emerged since the end of 1980 due to lack of effective forward planning. An
in-depth study of Pakistan's gas supply/demand situation commissioned by GOP
in 1981 indicates that the current need for load-shedding during the peak
periods of demand in winter will become increasingly serious and that, unless
substantial investment in increasing gas production takes place, a supply gap
of up to 40% of total demand could open up by the mid-1980s.                                  =
72.     The supply/demand study (carried out by foreign consultants and
funded under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility) has also confirmed that
substantial, economically recoverable reserves of gas exist in Pakistan.
However, the extremely low producer gas prices set by GOP in the past have
discouraged needed investment in the sector. Up to the end of 1981 the



-27-
well-head price for gas from the principal field at Sui was Rs 0.74 per
thousand cubic feet (mcf), while gas from the Mari field was priced at around
Rs 1.10 per mcf; these well-head prices are under 3% of the current cost of
the equivalent energy which can be derived from fuel oil, although fuel oil
is currently being substituted for natural gas in thermal power generation
during periods of peak demand. GOP has recognized the need for a substantial
revision of its approach to gas producer prices, and a new pricing policy has
been developed to facilitate the implementation of a strategy to close the
presently widening supply-demand gap. Agreement was reached in February 1982
for additional investments of over $150 million over the next 2-3 years to
maintain the current rate of production from the Sui field by means of addi-
tional drilling and field compression. Subject to further detailed reservoir
studies, the gas development strategy may also include:
(a) subsequent additional drilling to increase the
sustainable rate of production from the Sui field;
(b)  doubling of production from the Mari field; and
(c) development of new gas fields at Pirkoh and
Khandkot.
73.     The revised pricing arrangements for the above investments are to
reflect the ownership and characteristics of each field. For the Pirkoh
field, which is to be developed by a wholly owned subsidiary of OGDC with
assistance from the Asian Development Bank, the well-head price will be
adjusted periodically to ensure a 12% discounted cash flow after-tax rate of
return on investments. For investments at Sui (which is 70% privately
owned), the recently agreed pricing arrangements for the investments required
to maintain the current rate of production are designed to provide a substan-
tial share of investment requirements through internal cash generation; the
average well-head price for all production will be adjusted annually in order
to generate a negotiated rate of return to share capital, after allowing for
production and development costs, taxation, debt service and an agreed rate
of accumulation of reserves for future re-investment. On this basis the
well-head price for Sui gas for 1982 is set at over Rs 3 per mcf.
74.     With respect to investments to generate additional gas supplies from
any other source, GOP has adopted a general pricing policy which represents a
major departure from its traditional cost-plus or fixed rate-of-return
approach. In each case, a "base price" would be negotiated to yield an
agreed discounted cash flow real rate of return on the total estimated costs
of the proposed development project and this "base price" would be indexed to
world oil prices. In each case, the rates of return would be negotiated
taking into account the different risks applying to various proposed develop-
ments. In cases where the costs of development remain subject to con-
siderable uncertainty at the time of initial negotiations (e.g., because
substantial further exploration or appraisal is required), the base price may



-28-
be subject to review at a pre-determined point in the development schedule,
once the scope and costs of the project have been more precisely defined.
Negotiations on the above basis have been commenced with the private
operators of the Mari and Khandkot fields. Progress towards implementing an
adequate gas supply strategy on the basis of this revised approach to pricing
will be reviewed jointly by the Bank and GOP in October/November 1982.
75.     In order to encourage conservation, the average prices of petroleum
products to consumers have been increased so as to remain in line with rising
international petroleum prices over the past few years and the Government
intends to continue this policy of promptly passing on cost increases to
final users. In contrast, gas consumer/user prices were riaintained at
extremely low levels, in order to encourage the substitution of gas for oil
consumption and to counterbalance other domestic inflationary pressures. Up
to the end of 1981, the average consumer price of natural gas was about Rs 10
per mcf, well above the present average cost of domestic gas production and
distribution but only around 25% of the value of the fuel oil energy equiv-
alent. However, the time when one large low-cost field (Sui) could meet
Pakistan's increasing gas requirements is now over, and the marginal costs of
additional gas supplies are likely to be considerably higher. In addition,
with gas consumption increasing rapidly and serious gas shortages emerging,
the need to limit the growth of demand and to encourage conservation has been
underlined. The Government has accordingly adopted a policy not only to pass
on any increases in producer prices resulting from revised well-head pricing
arrangements but also to achieve a gradual rationalization of user prices for
all alternative sources of energy, while avoiding undue inflationary shocks
to the economy. An initial average increase in gas consumer prices of
approximately 20% was implemented effective January 1, 1982, and the Govern-
ment intends to implement further phased increases so that the average price
of natural gas to consumers would reach two-thirds of the value of equivalent
energy derived from fuel oil by FY88. The Government will review the gas
pricing situation annually and take necessary action to maintain adequate
progress towards these objectives.
76.     Reorganization of OGDC:  GOP has commenced the implementation of a
program to reorganize OGDC to correct existing deficiencies in its management
structure and operating efficiency following a recently completed management
study which recommended the restructuring of OGDC along commercial lines,
including the setting up of independent operating companies to undertake the
development of individual fields. In recent months, salaries for key OGDC
staff have been increased and there has been an increasing delegation of
authority to field development teams. As noted above, an independent company
for the development of the Pirkoh gas field is being formed as a wholly owned
subsidiary of OGDC. GOP has approached private companies as a first step to
negotiating a joint venture agreement for the development of the Dhodak
gas/condensate field. GOP is also investigating the feasibility of setting
up a separate independent drilling subsidiary of OGDC which would assume the
management of four modern rigs currently owned by OGDC and contract drilling



-29-
services to other segments or subsidiaries of OGDC as well as to private
companies undertaking exploration and development work in Pakistan.
77.     Energy sector planning:  On the instructions of the National Energy
Policy Committee, a 10-year national energy development plan is being drawn
up under the direction of the Planning Commission. This plan is to draw
together information on energy subsectors to ensure a coordinated development
of all alternative potential sources.  The terms of reference of this study,
to be carried out with the help of consultants, have been drawn up and a
preliminary report is to be prepared by December 1982 in order to provide the
basis of the energy sector strategy for the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
78.     GOP has also requested assistance from the Bank and other donors for
detailed subsectoral studies which would be integrated into a final draft of
the long-term energy plan. The recently completed gas study represents the
first stage of these subsectoral studies. The proposed IDA Technical Assis-
tance Project includes provision for further studies in the oil and gas
sectors and the power sector; a feasibility study of the major Kalabagh Dam
Project has commenced (financed by UNDP with the Bank acting as executing
agency); and several donors, including the Bank, are expected to assist
studies of the coal sector.
IV. Industry
79.     As described in Part I above, the Government's industrial policy
since 1977 has been to encourage the private sector and limit the role and
improve the efficiency of the public sector. GOP has already implemented a
wide range of measures to achieve this fundamental reorientation of policy
with encouraging results. There has been a substantial increase in private
investment, especially in medium and small-scale enterprises. At the same
time, GOP is aware that further streamlining of procedures and incentives, as
well as simplification of regulations, is desirable to maintain the momentum
of the recent recovery. A flexible exchange rate regime has been introduced
recently to support already existing export promotion measures. A policy of
import liberalization is also being followed in consultation with the IMF
in order to give domestic industry better access to imported inputs while
promoting improved efficiency by gradual exposure to competition from
imports. In addition, a number of surveys and studies are being undertaken
by GOP to provide the basis for further industrial policy reforms. Some of
this work will be supported by the proposed IDA Technical Assistance Project
as well as by sector work to be undertaken by Bank staff over the next 18
months.
80.     Industrial Incentives Study:  The process of modifying industrial
policy in Pakistan has been complicated by the existence of the present
overly complex system of industrial incentives. Because of numerous
piecemeal alterations to incentives over the years, the precise effect of the
existing system on the industrial sector as a whole or on specific industries



-30-
is unclear; there is no comprehensive information on the protection that it
provides or its impact on resource allocation.
81.     GOP has accordingly commissioned a comprehensive study of effective
protection based on a large-scale sample survey of industrial enterprises, in
order to provide a review of the system of incentives including taxes, sub-
sidies, tariffs and other controls, on the basis of which standard measures
of prevailing degrees of effective protection will be calculated. This
analysis will guide GOP in a simplification and reform of the structure of
incentives in order to achieve a more uniform level of effective protection.
The study, which is being carried out by the Pakistan Institute of Develop-
ment Economics, has been initiated with funds from IDA's Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) and would be continued under the proposed IDA Technical Assis-
tance Credit; it is expected to be substantially completed by December 1982.
The Government has appointed a committee chaired by the Minister of Finance
to review the progress of the study and its findings. In the light of the
committee's recommendations, GOP intends to introduce appropriate changes in
tariffs and fiscal incentives beginning July 1, 1983.
82.     Public sector enterprises:  To bring about further improvements in
the efficiency of the public manufacturing sector, GOP has decided to estab-
lish a Public Enterprises Signaling System which would develop a set of
objective performance criteria to be used in evaluating and rewarding
managers of public manufacturing enterprises and would provide the basis for
a strengthened incentive system for managers. The project, recommended by a
recent study of the public sector by a Bank-financed consultant, would con-
sist of the development of an information system to measure enterprise per-
formance; a performance evaluation system to translate goals into explicit
enterprise objectives in quantitative terms; and the provision of incentives
for managers, linking benefits with achievement of specified targets. The
project would be financed under the proposed IDA Technical Assistance Credit
following initial funding from the PPF. Work on this project commenced in
November 1931 and is to be completed according to an agreed, detailed
timetable over three years. The work program has been designed so that the
monitoring and evaluation of enterprises can be implemented progressively
once the initial phase of setting up a management information system is
completed during 1982.
83.     Financial sector study:  Pakistan's relatively low domestic savings,
the growing emphasis on the role of the private sector and the difficulties
being experienced by private companies in raising domestic financing point to
the need to improve the performance of financial markets and institutions
both in terms of mobilizing and allocating resources. Improvement in
policies and institutions in this area would, inter alia, assist GOP to
attain the desired improvement in the savings rate over the medium term (see
paragraph 30). A Bank financial sector mission to survey and review the
performance of existing financial institutions and markets visited Pakistan
in March 1982 and a report containing policy recommendations for discussion



-31-
with GOP is to be finalized shortly. It is envisaged that selective reforms
of the financial sector, as well as the implementation of a revised
industrial incentive system and of the Public Enterprises Signaling System,
might be elements of a possible SAL II.
84.     Public/private sector balance:  GOP's objective of shifting the
balance of total investment substantially towards increased private invest-
ment (see paragraph 30(c) above) is to be pursued by the active promotion
of private investment in industry. In addition to offering improved fiscal
and other incentives, GOP is concerned to ensure that unnecessary constraints
on private industry are removed. A detailed inventory of regulatory con-
straints on industry is being prepared by GOP with a view to eliminating all
unnecessary government interventions.
85.     The need for further policy improvements is evident in the case of
large-scale industry. Although GOP has been successful in promoting a wel-
come resurgence of private investment, especially in smaller-scale ventures,
there have so far been few proposals for large-scale investments despite the
fact that, given the size of the market and Pakistan's resource endowments,
there is considerable scope for further efficient large-scale import sub-
stitution. While GOP's policy preference is that such projects should be
promoted in the private sector, the Government is aware that, due to the
lumpiness of such investments, there may be difficulties in obtaining a
sufficient flow of private funds and foreign exchange financing for such
projects.
86.     As part of the preparatory work for the Sixth Five-Year Plan, GOP
will study key industrial sectors in order to identify the likely extent of
such investments required over the next decade, determine the types of
policies necessary to promote such investments and consider the possible need
for and/or relative advantage of government involvement through joint ven-
tures with the private sector, or if necessary through sole public ownership.
These studies will, inter alia, analyze the adequacy of sectoral policies
(including pricing) and will assess the associated needs for infrastructure,
raw materials and credit to promote the necessary volume of investment.
Support for these studies would be provided under the proposed IDA Technical
Assistance Project as well as through the Bank's own economic and sector
work.



-32-
Table 5: PAKISTAN: STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
Structural Reform Program
Sector and Policy Issues          Objectives                             Recent Actions and Performance                 Further Steps to be Taken
MACRO-ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
1.  Ecoonmic Growth               GOP aims to maintain a                 Since FY77 GDP has grown at                    Improved sectoral policies,
growth rate of 6.5% p.a.               over 6% p.a. with agriculture                  as outlined below, designed
in GDP through FY88, with             expanding at 4.2% and industry                  to transform the recent
sectoral growth rates of              at 8% p.a.                                      recovery in performance to
5% for agriculture and                                                                a period of sustained growth.
10% for manufacturing
industry.
2.  Domestic Resource             Gross national savings                 Gross national savings have                    Program development: A study
Mobilization                 are to be increased to                  increased from 11% of GNP in                   of the performance of financial
14% of GNP by FY83* and                1977 to over 13% in 1981.                     markets is being conducted,
to 16% by FY88 through                                                                inter alia, to improve their
taxation measures, re-                                                                effectiveness in mobilizing
ductions in subsidies                                                                 savings; results to be discussed
and improved self-                                                                   with Bank during FY83.
financing of investments
by public sector enter-               Government Expenditures:  Tight                Actions:
prises as well as continued           restraints imposed, with subsidies              (a) improved framework and
restraint of Government                falling from 12% of budget in                      procedures for formulating
spending, but with special            FY79 to 7% in FY81.  Special                        programs of development
provisions for essential              allocation of Rs 150 million for                    expenditure (see 5 below);
eKpenditures.                          canal maintenance in Federal FY82              (b) continued restraint on non-
budget.                                            essential current expenditures;*
and
(c) subsidies to be progressively
reduced in real terms.*
Taxation:  Revenues increased by               Further simplification and
20% p.a. from FY77 to FY81.                    rationalization of taxation
Review of indirect taxation                    system with emphasis on
system has been conducted and                  improved collections.*
inplementation of recommendations
has begun.
Government Services and Public                 Further progress towards
Enterprises:  Improvements in                  cost-recovery for specific
cost recovery and self-financing               services (e.g., irrigation,
of public enterprise investments.              electricity),* and implement-
ation of system for monitoring
public enterprise performance
(see 17).
Domestic bank financed                Overall budget deficit declined
deficit to be limited to               from 8.9% to 4.7% of GDP between
2% of GDP.*                           FY79 and FY81 with domestic bank
financing falling from 4.4% to
less than 1% of GDP.
3.  Monetary/Credit               Domestic inflation to                  Monetary expansion has been                    Actions:  Annual average growth
Policies                     be reduced and limited                 progressively reduced to be                    of liquidity to be limited to
to annual average of                   in line with nominal increases                 14-15%, with specific sub-
10% p.a.*                             in GDP.  Special allocations                   ceilings for borrowing by
of credit have been reserved                   Government for budgetary and
for fixed private industrial                   commodity operations.*
investment and priority
agricultural activities.
4.  Balance of Payments/          To narrow current                      From FY77 to FY81 exports                      Actions:  Promotion of exports
Exchange Rate Policies       account balance to                     and imports have grown at                      and import replacement as
2.5% of GNP by                         13% p.a. and 8% p.a.,                         described under sectoral
maintaining a growth                   respectively (in constant                     headings.
of exports well in                     prices).  The current
excess of the growth                  account balance of payments
of imports.                            declined from 6.8% to 3.3%
of GNP over the same period.
The fixed rupee/USi  link was                  Action:  The exchange rate is to
ended in January 1982; the                     be managed in a flexible manner
exchange rate is now defined                   in order to maintain international
in terms of a basket of                       competitiveness.*
currencies. There has been
an 11% gradual devaluation
against this basket over
recent months.
a These aspects are to be monitored by the IMF as part of the agreed EFF program.



-33-
Structural Reform Program
Sector and Policy Issues         Objectives                            Recent Actions and Performance                Further Steps to be Taken
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
5. Revised Planning              Restoration of sound                  Following disruption of the                   Actions:
Framework                    medium-term development               inplementation of the Fifth                   (a) updated three-year program to
planning to a central                 Five-Year Plan (FY79-83),                         be prepared for FY83-85 and
role in economic                      due to shortfalls in resources,                    to be completed and reviewed
policy formulation.                   GlP has drawn up a revised                        with Bank before November
three-year public sector                          1982; and
development program for                       (b) Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88)
FY82-84 in consultation                           to be drawn up by mid-1983.
with Bank.
6.  Plan Priorities              Redirection of resources              The FY82-84 development                       Actions:  Under the revised FY82-84
towards the agriculture,              program provides for                          development program:
water, eoergy and social              significant progress                          (a) the fertilizer subsidy will be
sectors by reducing                   towards these objectives.                         reduced from 9.2Z of total
fertilizer subsidies                                                                    development expenditures in
and public sector industry                                                              FY81 to 2.9% in FY84;
investments.                                                                        (b) the sectoral share for public
industry will decline from
15.6% to 4.9% of total develop-
ment expenditures; and
(c) resources will be reoriented
towards high-priority invest-
ments in agriculture, water,
energy and the social sectors
(see also 8 below).
Redirection of resources to be pursued
further during the preparation of the
FY83-85 public sector development
program and the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
7.  Planning Procedures          Improvement of the capacity           Planning staff has been                       Actions:
of the planning staff                 strengthened and a new                        (a) adequacy of staff for plan
to formulate policy                   Planning Minister has                             preparation and possible need
proposals, implement                  been appointed.                                   for technical assistance to
planning procedures and                                                                 be reviewed;
monitor implementation.                                                             (b) staffing and capability of
the project monitoring section
of the Planning Division to be
strengthened during 1982; and
(c) rigorous project evaluation and
approval procedures to be
followed.
AGRICULTURE AND WATER SECTOR
8.  Reorientation of             In line with GOP's National            Substantial reallocation                     Actions:
Public Expenditures          Agricultural Policy, expend-          of expenditures in line                       (a) preparation of a pipeline of
itures in the agricultural            with these priorities                             high-priority projects,
sector are to be shifted              envisaged in FY82-84                              including the promotion of
from input subsidies towards          development program.                              private sector tubewells,
improved storage; rural                                                                 according to an agreed,
transport; research and                                                                 detailed schedule, financed
extension; improved seeds;                                                              by technical assistance from
and increased credit                                                                    UNDP and IDA;
availability.  Expenditures                                                         (b) expenditures in the agricultural
in the water sector are to                                                              and water sectors excluding the
be reoriented towards:                                                                  fertilizer subsidy will be
(a) rehabilitation and mainte-                                                          increased during the revised
nance of the existing                                                               three-year development program
irrigation system;                                                                  from 19.1% of total development
(b) improving water conser-                                                             expenditures in FY81 to 24.2%
vation and scheduling;                                                              in FY84;
(c) promotion of private                                                            (c) allocations for the operation
sector tuhewells supported                                                         and maintenance of the irri-
by rural electrification                                                            gation system to be increased
and supervised credit                                                               progressively to meet agreed
schemes; and                                                                        targets by FY85; and
(d) improvements in drainage.                                                       (d) water user charges to be
increased to cover an increasing
proportion of O&M expenditures
in accordance with an agreed
schedule.
*  These aspects are to be monitored by the IMF as part of the agreed EFF progran.



-34-
Structural Reform Program
Sector and Policy Issues           Objectives                              Recent Actions and Performance                   Further Steps to be Taken
9.  Agricultural                   Agricultural input and                  rOP has implemented a series of                  Actions:
Pricing Policies              output prices are to be                  increases in agricultural input                 (a) APC staffing to be completed
aligned with the long-                  and crop support/procurement                         and an agreed work program
term trend of international             prices.  Since FY77, wheat prices                    implemented over next 18
prices.                                 have been increased by 46%; seed                     months;
cotton by 27%; IRRI rice by 68%;                (b) crop support/procurement
Basmati rice by 56%; sugarcane                       prices and key input prices
by 517.  Fertilizer prices were                      to be reviewed on the basis
increased by an average of 50% in                    of APC's recommendations
February 1980 and by 9.3% in                         prior to the sowing of the
March 1982.  Pesticide subsidies                     1982/83 winter crop;
have been eliminated in two major               (c) fertilizer subsidies to be
provinces and water charges have                     eliminated by mid-1985; and
been increased by 75% in the last               (d) all pesticide subsidies to
four years.  An Agricultural Prices                  be eliminated by end of 1983.
Commission (APC) was established
in 1981 in order to provide a
systematic basis for future pricing
decisions.
10. Diversification                Diversification of                      An Ounseed Development Plan has                  Actions:  Implementation of Oilseed
of Agriculture                agriculture, with                        been prepared to accelerate growth              Development Plan through:
particular emphasis on                  of domestic production.                         (a) provision of inputs (including
edible oil to reverse                                                                        improved seed), advice and
the trend of increasing                                                                      marketing services to prospective
imports.  Acreage under                                                                      new growers of nun-traditional
non-traditional oilseeds                                                                     varieties in selected areas;
is to be increased from                                                                 (b) intensification  of adaptive
11,000 to 85,000 acres                                                                       research and extension services
over three years.  A                                                                         to increase yields of traditional
target of 5% p.a. improve-                                                                   varieties;
ment in yields has been                                                                 (c) development of detailed program
set for traditional                                                                          to improve processing industry;
oilseeds.                                                                                    and
(d) producer and consumer price
adjulstments.
ENERGY SECTOR
11. Petroleum                      Reduce petroleum imports                Exploration of previously                        Actions:  Implementation of a recent
Exploration                   by intensified efforts to                unexplored areas has been                       GOP decision to accelerate explora-
esplore and develop new                 accelerated  through joint                      tion of OGDC license areas by
sources of domestic                     ventures, with one new                          inviting bids for private sector
petroleum.                              discovery to date.  However,                    participation to explore 10 to 15
there has been inadequate                       structures during  1982.
exploration of prospects
under license to the public
sector Oil and Gas Development
Corporation (OGDC).
12. Development of                 Maximize domestic oil and               Output of oil from existing                      Program Development:  GOP analysis
Domestic Oil and              gas produced from already                domestic fields has fallen short                of recent gas demand/supply study,
Gas Fields and                known sources.                           of expectations, with develop-                  leading to the adoption of a
Producer Pricing                                                       inc.t of the major private sector               medium-tern investment strategy
Policies                                                               field impeded by inadequate                     expected to be completed by mid-1982.
prices. GOP has recently re-
negotiated pricing arrangements                 Action:  Conduct of negotiations for
for both public and private sector              investments to implement the gas
oil fields.  Gas production                     supply strategy; progress to be
increased by over 40% from FY77                 reviewed with Bank in October/
to FT82.  However, recent                       November 1982.
analysis of the demand/supply
situation indicates need for
major investments to maintain
and increase supplies. Revised
pricing arrangements have been
agreed for investments to maintain
supplies from the major gas field.
A new general ga. producer pricing
approach has been adopted for
negotiating investments to increase
production.
These aspects are to he monitored by the IMF as part of the agreed EFF program.



-35-
Structural Reform Program
Sector and Policy Issues         Objectives                            Recent Actions and Performance                Further Steps to be Taken
13. Oil and Gas Consumer         Rationalization of energy             Consumer prices of petroleum                  Actions:
Pricing Policies             consumer prices with                  products have been increased                  (a) consumer prices of petroleum
opportunity costs.                    sharply since 1978 to remain                      products to be increased at
in line with rising world                         least in line with increased
prices.  Gas consumer prices                      costs;* and
have been kept at low levels;                 (b) consumer prices of natural gas
however, GOP has recently                         to be progressively increased
adopted a policy of gradual                       towards the value of equivalent
rationalization of natural                        energy derived from fuel oil.
*                                                                                 gas prices relative to other
energy sources. An initial
increase in gas consumer
prices averaging around 20%
was implemented in January
1982.
14. Role of the Public           Improve the efficiency                The performance of OGDC has been              Actions:
Sector Oil and Gas           of OGDC, inter alia, by               adversely affected by loss of                 (a) strengthening the staff and
Development                  placing its operations                qualified staff and weaknesses                     technical capacity of OGDC; and
Corporation (OGDC)           on a commercial basis.                in the management structure.  A               (b) conduct of negotiations for
study of the structure of OGDC                    private oil company participation
was completed in 1981.  GOP has                   in exploration (see 11 above) as
decided to promote the formation                  vell as the development of sowe
of independent operating companies                already discovered OGDC fields.
and the use of joint ventures or
risk service contracts to develop
individual OGDC fields.
15. Long-Term Energy             Consistent development of             GOP has taken decision to prepare             Studies:  Implementation of a
Planning                     all available energy                  a comprehensive 10-year energy                program of data collection
sources.                              plan to coordinate the accelerated            and analysis, including:
development of oil and gas with              (a) follow up studies of the gas
that of other energy sources.  The                sector;
work program is to include sub-               (b) further analysis of geological
sectoral studies and has commenced                data to identify additional
with the recent gas demand/supply                 petroleum prospects;
study (see 12 above).                         (c) evaluation of coal prospects;
and
(d) a power development strategy up
to year 2000 and a feasibility
study of the Kalabagh Dam
Project;
leading up to the preparation of a
long-term energy plan. A preliminary
draft is to be prepared for inclusion
in the FY84-88 Sixth Five-Year Plan.
These aspects are to be monitored by the IMF as part of the agreed EFF program.



-36-
Structural Reform Program
Sector and Policy Issues          Objectives                            Recent Actions and Performance                 Further Steps to be Taken
INDUSTRIAL POLICIES
16.  Public/Private              Revival of private sector              No major new investments in                    Action:  An inventory of regulatory
Sector Balance              investment while restricting          puiblic sector industry since                  constraints on industry is being
public industrial investment          1977.  A wide range of incentives              prepared with a view to eliminating
to the completion of ongoing          have been introduced (see 18 and               all unnecessary government
projects (see 6 above).  The          20 below) and investment sanction-             interventions.
share of private and public           ing procedures have been stream-
sectors in total investment           lined.  Private investment has                 Study:  GOP policy is to minimize
is to be shifted from 36%             recovered, especially in small                 the future involvement of the public
at present to 50% in FY88.            and mediuim-scale enterprises,                 sector in industry.  A study of large-
Government regulations and            and increased by 14% p.a. in                   scale investment needs will be
other constraints on private          real terms between FY79 and PY81.              carried out during preparation of
investment to be minimized.                                                          the Sixth Five-Year Plan to deter-
mine the policies required to promote
adequate investment Is these sub-
sectors and assess the desirability
for any further public sector
involvement; any such investments
will be subject to rigorous economic
project selection criteria.
17.  Public Sector               Improve the efficiency and             The gradual decentralization of               Action:  Progressive implementation
Efficiency                  financial performance of              decision-making and delegation                 over three vears of a system for
public sector enterprises.            of responsibility for staffing                evaluating the performance of public
and pricing decisions to                      enterprises and providing management
individual enterprises have                   incentives for improved performance.
contributed to a recovery of                  Phase I of this system - establishment
public enterprise productivity                of an information base and enterprise
and profitability.                            performance indicators - to become
operative during FY83.
18.  export Promotion            Maintain the recent                    The range of standard rebates                 Action:  The need for measures to
recovery in industrial                of import and excise duties on                promote further export growth,
export performance.                   imported inputs has been extended,             including flexible exchange rate
additional rebates have been                  policies, to be kept under review.*
introduced for specific exports
and concessional export finance
has been made available. Exports
increased by 13% p.a. in real
terms from FY77 to FY81 but
have recently been adversely
affected by world price move-
ments and other developments.
19.  Import                      Improve access of domestic             Since 1980, GOP has commenced                 Action:  Agreed program of import
Liberalization              industry to imported                  a gradual process of import                    liberalization to be completed by
capital and intermediate              liberalization, involving a                   the end of the present EFF program.*
goods, while encouraging              transition from a "positive
efficiency through exposure           list" (permitted imports) to
to foreign competition and            a "negative list" (prohibited
technology.                           imports) and a progressive
replacement of bans by
appropriate tariffs.
20.  Restructuring                Simplification of the tariff          The range of incentives has been               Study:  Completion of the industrial
of Industrial               structure and achievement             in,proved in recent years, but the             incentives study and review by a
Incentives                  of a more uniform level of            structure of incentives has                    high-level GOP committee.
effective protection.                 become overly complicated and
its impact on specific industries             Action:  Introduction of appropriate
is unclear.  GOP has commissioned             changes in tariffs and fiscal
a comprehensive study of the                  incentives. beginning July 1, 1983.
incentive system.
* These aspects are to be monitored by the IMF as part of the agreed EFF program.



-37-
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Loan and Credit History
87.     The possibility of structural adjustment lending was first raised by
GOP in the fall of 1980 as a follow up to the agreement on fertilizer pricing
and other agricultural policy changes reached in connection with the Fer-
tilizer Imports Credit of October 1980. Subsequent work towards the prepara-
tion of the SAL program has involved an in-depth analysis and discussion of
key economic issues between GOP and Bank staff; the Bank's Country Economic
Memorandum for 1981,1/ which contained a discussion of the structural issues
facing Pakistan during the 1980s, provided an initial focus for this dialogue
and was followed up by detailed sector work in relevant fields. The proposed
Loan/Credit was appraised in November 1981. Negotiations took place in
Washington from April 22 to April 28, 1982; the GOP delegation was led by Mr.
Ejaz Ahmad Naik, Secretary for Planning and Economic Affairs.
Cooperation with the IMF
88.     GOP's program of structural adjustments to be supported by the
proposed Loan and Credit complements the measures incorporated in the
three-year EFF Program agreed with the IMF in late 1980. Bank staff
cooperated with the IMF in identifying key structural issues and participated
in Fund missions to Pakistan in 1980 and 1981 to advise on specific sectoral
policy measures to be implemented under the EFF program, the key objectives
of which are summarized in Part II (paragraphs 33 to 36). In reaching under-
standings with the Pakistan authorities concerning their respective financial
arrangements, the two organizations have cooperated closely to ensure the
mutual consistency of development and adjustment goals. It has been agreed
that, in the course of monitoring the Government's structural adjustment
program, the Bank would provide assistance to the Fund in evaluating the
design and implementation of sectoral policies as described below (paragraphs
90 to 93). Similarly, the Fund would assist the Bank in assessing the
macro-economic framework within which sectoral policies would be applied.
The current, and scheduled, use of IMF resources by Pakistan is detailed in
Annex V.
Monitoring of Actions
89.     GOP's reform program consists of a number of significant policy
improvements in the areas of development planning, agricultural/water sector
1/ "Pakistan: Economic Developments and Prospects," Report No. 3328-PAK,
April 10, 1981.



-38-
policies, energy sector policies and industrial sector policies which have
been described in Part II of this report. A substantial range of measures
have already been taken since the commencement of SAL-related discussions
(see Table 5, pages 32-36). Over the next 12-18 months, significant further
progress is expected to be made by GOP in the following areas, which would be
closely monitored by the Bank:
90.     Development Planning:  GOP has commenced work on the preparation of
an FY83-85 Public Sector Development Program (see paragraph 47) and a
detailed review of the overall size, financing and composition of the FY83-85
program would be undertaken during October/November 1982. In addition, GOP
has already commenced the preparation of a Sixth Five-Year Plan to cover the
FY84-88 period; assistance for designing the macro-economic framework of this
longer-term program would be provided under the proposed Technical Assistance
Project.
91.     Agriculture and water sector policies:  continued progress towards
the implementation of GOP's National Agricultural Policy is expected to be
made by:
(a) further shifts in the size and composition of investment alloca-
tions for agriculture and water in line with this policy within
the FY83-85 program. Moreover, the Sixth Plan will provide an
opportunity for setting out a longer-term investment strategy,
taking into account the respective responsibilities of the
Federal and Provincial Governments;
(b) the preparation of high-priority projects and programs in line
with the National Agricultural Policy, including preparation
activities financed under the UNDP Project and the proposed IDA
Technical Assistance Credit (paragraph 56). A detailed program
of project preparation has been agreed with GOP; the monitoring
of the SAL program would pay particular attention to the
preparation of a SCARP Transition Project aimed at reducing
public tubewell operations in usable groundwater areas, a com-
mand water management project to improve the efficiency of water
use in specific canal command areas, and a detailed program to
increase the production of oilseeds;
(c) further financial measures, including those to be included in
the FY83 budget, in respect of:
(i)    providing increased budgetary allocations for the
operation and maintenance of public tubewells and the
irrigation canal system (paragraph 57);



-39-
(ii)   progressive increases in user charges aimed at
recovering an increasing proportion of the O&M expen-
ditures on the irrigation system (paragraph 58); and
(iii)  the reduction of the fertilizer subsidy, including
agreement on target levels for the fertilizer subsidy
for FY83, FY84 and FY85 (paragraph 60); and
(d)  the completion of the agreed staffing of the Agricultural Prices
Commission and the implementation of its work program (paragraph
61), with particular emphasis on making recommendations for
coordinated adjustments of key input and crop sup-
port/procurement prices prior to each cropping season.
92.     Energy sector policies:  Over the coming 12-18 months, GOP will
continue:
(a)  the promotion of accelerated exploration of concession areas
held under license by the Oil and Gas Development Corporation,
inter alia, through the negotiation of private sector participa-
tion (paragraph 70);
(b)  the implementation of GOP's revised gas development strategy,
inter alia, through inducing additional private investment (see
paragraphs 72 to 74);
(c)  the progressive rationalization of consumer/user prices of
natural gas in relation to alternative energy forms (paragraph
75);
(d)  the strengthening and reorganization of the Oil and Gas Develop-
ment Corporation (paragraph 76); and
(e)  initial work on an agreed program of data collection and
analysis leading up to the preparation of a long-term integrated
energy plan for Pakistan (paragraphs 77 and 78).
93.     Industrial sector policies:  In addition to carrying out the agreed
program of import liberalization in the context of the EFF program, GOP will:
(a)  complete and review the study of the structure of industrial
incentives, with appropriate changes in tariffs and fiscal
incentives being introduced from July 1, 1983 (paragraph 81);



-40-
(b) implement the system of performance evaluation of public
enterprises in line with the schedule agreed under the proposed
Technical Assistance Project (paragraph 82);
(c) prepare and review a comprehensive inventory of regulatory
constraints on industry in order to eliminate all unnecessary
government interventions (paragraph 84); and
(d) conduct an examination of long-term investment needs and
associated policies in large-scale manufacturing (paragraph 86).
Schedule of Disbursements
94.     It is proposed that the Structural Adjustment Loan of US$60 million
and Credit of US$80 million equivalent be released in two installments as
follows:
IDA      IBRD       TOTAL
($ million equivalent)
First Tranche                 51.0       39.0        90.0
Second Tranche                29.0       21.0        50.0
Total                       80.0       60.0       140.0
The first installment of US$90 million would become available for disburse-
ment on Loan and Credit effectiveness; the second installment of US$50 mil-
lion would become available after the Bank has reviewed and is satisfied with
the progress made in the implementation of the SAL program. This review is
expected to take place in October/November 1982. Prior to the conduct of the
review GOP would prepare and submit to the Bank (Section 3.03(a) and Schedule
4 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03(a) and Schedule 3 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement):
(a) an FY83-85 Public Sector Investment Program consistent with a
realistic estimate of prospective available resources and with
the sectoral priorities of the SAL program;
(b) a report on the Government's decisions with respect to agricul-
tural support/procurement prices and key input prices, including
fertilizer prices, to apply for the 1982/83 winter cropping
season, following the receipt of recommendations from the
Agricultural Prices Commission based on a review of domestic
cost and international price trends and taking into account the
effect of these recommendations on budget subsidy targets set in
the FY83-85 program; and



-41-
(c) a report describing progress in implementing an accelerated gas
supply development program and assessing the need for any fur-
ther policy measures, including producer pricing policies, which
may be required to assure adequate investments.
Procurement and Disbursement
95.     The funds provided under the Loan/Credit could be used to help
finance all imports other than a short list of excluded items as specified in
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements. Eligible
imports would include raw materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and
spare parts for both the public and private sectors. The proposed
Loan/Credit of US$140 million would finance less than 2% of the value of all
imports during the expected 18-month disbursement period. Imports directly
financed from other sources would not be eligible for Bank financing and
there would be no displacement of alternative financing on acceptable terms
available to Pakistan, either generally or for commodities eligible for
financing from the Loan/Credit. Not more than 25% of the proceeds of the
Loan or Credit would be used to finance the import of any trade class-
ification subgroup.
96.     Procurement would be limited to goods from countries eligible under
the Bank-s Guidelines for Procurement. Both private and public sector
imports would be eligible for financing. Procurement by private firms would
follow normal commercial practices. Public sector imports would be procured
in accordance with standard government procurement practices, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts exceeding $5 million in size would be
awarded through international competitive bidding. These contracts would be
subject to ex-post review; that is, a brief report containing evidence that
each was let in accordance with Bank guidelines would be submitted prior to
or with the withdrawal applications.
97.     The proposed Loan and Credit would finance 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
eligible imports, subject to documentary evidence that they had been paid on
or after signing. The State Bank of Pakistan would be responsible for col-
lecting appropriate supporting documentation, the preparation and submission
of withdrawal applications and the maintenance of necessary accounts for the
loan/credit funds. The documentation supporting withdrawal applications
would consist of a copy of the invoice from the supplier, evidence of payment
and evidence of shipment.
Counterpart Funds
98.     The Pakistan rupee equivalent generated by the foreign currency
withdrawals from the loan and credit accounts would be credited to a special
account with the State Bank of Pakistan and used to finance expenditures
under the annual development programs of the Federal Government to support
development expenditures, consistent with the objectives of the agreed struc-
tural reform program, in key economic and social sectors (Section 3.06 of the



-42-
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Benefits and Risks
99.     The proposed Loan and Credit would provide quick-disbursing foreign
exchange to finance essential imports and would assist GOP in meeting the
macro-economic targets which have been set under the agreed EFF program.
This direct financial contribution of structural adjustment lending to Pakis-
tan would be relatively minor in relation to total financing needs. The
major benefit of the proposed Loan/Credit would be through its indirect
contribution to the improvement of development planning and the successful
implementation of improved policies in the key sectors of agriculture and
energy which should have a major positive effect on Pakistan's balance of
payments over the next 3-5 years. The rationalization of industrial policies
should yield longer-term dividends. These improvements should, inter alia,
also assist Pakistan's access to medium-term commercial borrowing on
reasonable terms from world capital markets. As noted in paragraph 28,
substantial commercial borrowing will be required to permit continued growth
in per-capita incomes over the medium term. At present Pakistan has access
only to short-term borrowing; the existence and implementation of a struc-
tural adjustment program would be a significant positive factor in estab-
lishing Pakistan's creditworthiness for longer-term borrowing.
100.    The recent interchange between GOP and Bank and IMF staff has been
helpful not only in shaping the program of reforms to be implemented under
the EFF and proposed SAL programs, but also in formulating a coherent program
for future Bank Group project operations in Pakistan as discussed in Part IV.
In addition, the proposed Loan and Credit would provide an opportunity for a
continued intensive dialogue with GOP on major issues of economic development
policies.
101.    There is a risk that political events either inside Pakistan or in
the region may impede the implementation of the reform program. However,
GOP has been able to build up an impressive record of policy improvements
despite the adverse developments in the region and the world economy in
recent years. The Government has demonstrated a commitment to a gradual
rationalization of the economy through the implementation of measures which
have, in many cases, involved politically difficult decisions.
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
102.    The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,



-43-
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 36% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 31% for industry (of
which 9% was for industrial imports), 30% for agriculture and 2% for educa-
tion. IFC has made investments totaling $74 million.
103.    The proposed SAL program would reinforce the effectiveness of future
*       project lending, particularly in the agriculture, water and energy sectors,
by addressing broad macro-economic and sectoral policy issues. A substantial
pipeline of prospective projects is being developed in the agriculture and
water sectors to support the consensus on policies which has evolved in these
sectors.  Similarly, future projects in the energy sector would support the
coherent development strategy now emerging for the sector as a whole.
104.    In recent years, the Bank has placed greatest emphasis on the
agriculture and water sectors, where past operations have assisted the con-
struction of major irrigation facilities and the reclamation of land by
controlling salinity and waterlogging. Other operations have been designed
to raise agricultural productivity through support for research and extension
and by improving the supply and effective use of agricultural inputs. The
dialogue between GOP and Bank staff on future investment needs in agriculture
and water has resulted in an agreed program of project preparation (paragraph
56), which is to be supported, in part, by the proposed IDA Technical Assis-
tance Project. The preparation of these projects will lay the foundations
for future Bank operations in these sectors.
105.    In the oil and gas sectors, the significant reforms commenced by GOP
will form the basis for an expanded program of Bank operations in this vital
sector. Past operations have included assistance for the extension of the
gas distribution system and for domestic oil production at the Toot field.
Possible future projects include the development of the Dhodak gas/condensate
field; a petroleum exploration promotion project; and extensions of the gas
distribution network. Further projects are also planned to assist the
development of electric power generation, transmission and distribution.
106.    In industry, most Bank lending to date has been channeled through
development finance companies. Direct lending for industry has included
assistance to three large fertilizer plants and for small-scale industry.
IFC has made investments in 14 Pakistan enterprises. The proposed financial
sector study and the study of large-scale investment proposals (paragraphs 83
and 86, respectively) may identify further opportunities for Bank Group
operations to support industrial development.
107.    The focus of Bank lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards promoting better utilization of existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port



-44-
Trust, Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal and
provincial highway agencies. A second water supply project in Lahore is
currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for education, totaling
US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and
higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents, and vocational training. A
proposed population project, to support GOP's newly revised Population Plan,
is presently being prepared.
108.    Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project approval,
which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment of consult-
ants. Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to
migration to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in
the case of some projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
109.    The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Bank and the Association, respectively, the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Proposed special conditions for disbursements are described in Annex III.
110.    I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
111.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 11, 1982



-45-                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 PAKISTAN                            -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                               MHST RECENT           LOUW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
ACRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       130.0     260.0*             232.3               1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUiVALENT)     136.0       196.1    218.2               *".4                1150.6
POPULAT10N AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45850.5    60448.9   79705.0 *-                                    *-
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9      27.8               17.3                 40.e
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
P0PULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       57.0        75.2      99.1              153.6               373.1
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTLRAL LAND    201.0       249.0    309.4               360.3              2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCT1RE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3      46.4               37.4                39.6
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50.5      50.7               59.2                56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2       2.9                3.5                 3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.6       3.1                2.1                 2.3
URBAN                              4.6         4.0       4.3                3.4                 3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.4         47.3      44.4               27.7                29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.6        17.4      14.3               10.2                 7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.7       3.2                2.5                 1.9
FAMILY PLAhNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1   2085.0
UIERS (PERCENT OF MIARRIED WOKEN)   ..         ..       6.0               20.4                44.1
FOOD AND hUIRITION
INDLX Oe FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0    101.0               107.1               123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRHENTS)                   83.0        97.0      9.0                98.6               112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0        60.0      63.0               56.9                62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0        20.0      20.0               14.2                19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.0        18.4      14.8               14.6                 4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.5         48.8      52.2               57.7                64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c        ..        ..               89.1                50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0      29.0               30.1                45.9
URBAN                               *-        77.0      60.0               65.8                68.0
RURAL                               ..         4.0      17.0               20.1                34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0       6.0               17.6                53.4
URBAN                               ..        12.0      21.0               71.0                71.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                4.8                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d    4299.0/e  3758.0/e           3857.7              4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     13305.97e  9984.87;           6411.8              2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1742.9      1860.1    1896.8             1132.8               588.5
URBAN                            507.2       648.5     709.2              322.3               579.6
RURAL                          22850.0    12476.0  11819.6               5600.5              1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5.5         5.5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                              3.1         2.8/f
URBAN                              3.1         2.77       ..
RURAL                              3.1         2.8T       ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF L'WLI.INCS)
TOIAL                                         17.9/f
UKEAN                                         54.4/f
RURAL                               ..         4.97       ..



-46-                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (WEICHTED AVtRAGES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)!-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMFNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0        44.0       51.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  46.0         62.0      69.0                 94.4                100.6
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      32.0                 64.5                 98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        14.0       17.O/               38.0/aa               53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0      25.O0/               34.6/ac              58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0       8.O02               18.0o7/              48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5       1.5LI                3.8                 21.1
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        41.0       40.0                32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0        20.0       19.0/.              19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         I5.0/j       20.7      24.0                 52.8                 86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         2.6        2.8                 1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         17.1       66.8                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         1.6        8.3                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCLLATION PER
THDUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           *-      13.3                 14.6                106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h      ..                  3.4                  4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6       17364.1   21787.1
FEHALE (PERCENT)                     8.6         9.3       10.4                29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9      57.2                69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9        18.7       19.9                14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7      27.3                39.7                  40.2
MALE                                  55.2         50.4      47.5                 51.5                 49.8
FEMALE                                 5.7          S.5       5.9                23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF iHOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i        8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/1        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        68.0      176.0               134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                 ..        47.0      122.0               111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        34.0       88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..        22.0       58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..        42.0       32.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       29.0                51.7                  32.2
. Not  vailable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
/  1960-62;  /h 1972;  /i 1963-64;  L_ 1975.
* Ihe updated I9bD GNP per c.'pita and popu1;,tion csLiratcc eic
$300 (at 1978-1980 a        pevmr' pric.s) and 82,1S3.000 r-spccti lly.                   Key, 1981



66i066d696--i I'd           SO -161ld060a'.AtO.             AR toI63d16i6
G.             90.l0l.199.107 . il 0                     lo6Oo
1361 00%                                                 ~~~~~~~-139    91ll   0.00    sppIp    p."'      10  .Jo  U.V 13T..o
S------                              .. .. ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10vi.11*
',,dOd  690i09.10067.oIowi9itiiOlidlp7o.d   06209360
6093- (ivIld)  606    s,t  13800   4-59650. p.go            ....o 7 .6.1.1610'                           vd o."..  Ti10oo0.vipti
I.  Q  G1 Ild100)0  341   0    .790pq"t..
90i30*90tO;d~60od79iv013t90.   '106000i91J19(dlilOoJ.i O                                                                         'iill(0116.00I633
6o4~  00  inviJtFSilvl*1160    95901304  05i10  iOI                     110.6.0  oqA .0 .( 301600.....                      .0119    d.didOi
30   3ii.vo3ba739dv  .3363              1 v9   996R1OI.ooliO69.0  .30.1                                             ltO  11  i'"  7.o90'v10)1o3    31
'si.   it oo.v  9                              7.300-02-70=9                                          091       .    joo.I'll,o        I'06;(ll .       11'90   909
't.f'P.3P.,                                                                         G.
i.t.i o   ,...vv  i      odd .',        .. zl    31.4d   19   '09.                                            66   "   11R91!*9   di! 600;T7*01 -6 G9*G*30
-i--.   q  3967 T- I'9    i  ~~   i939 -"3 *iiiT-          Z'o-   0.J-                       T0oi,..s oroo'oo.9. "P                  d9 T 71I       0'03051Olo   i
'O", il                                      .~~~~~0000dt  119  9 ......d; pd    "00616-1961  1!T'-To  WI4  hd
0       6i60dl096003i...dIJ0o..3d.v6Ii3.v,I-  T---0 Aoi   -I.. oI'oo- 1000io 16 ......lOo!6i0
G-I'lu.              9d   06  7j001'ld10100001'0 X3i    htd  dO1liidO
Qf9llOdiji  iOS;iii.ool  i                 t.lii'Odo 0v1i7a0  ii.   Od   00.   1tlI).7.oovlO'O9  'o  oiii   i   a
S39itljuoii  ivi101..1  'Iiio 39  oov  00r0     l'1d31-0iP706106T OpOs'o9o4u6lloldoli                                     Idii-    96ii  Pt  63
I"6  706666   '091 1Oov   dd*  069   OiO.OO6   *99                                   i0    OI    0  i.liod01odd   ov   v   9p.i                             0 a,
70  39i0   Loiit   'dild   itod  390      (n00o  dliOdv                   iOlOi*0509019  0   n~9   19  0;  07.onoiio
'600    lii9id   3  tioild   iild  199   1i4-  oio.r6iij 'iv.  pt;llOi.710i62  do.9d                     OOi  iiOdOb OR_          0d0
'n    Tf,"37  00  i~069'~d  61 T6ia.l  doW.!1041'o90!d1dio    iOiOitIOiIii                                                                               io
inuqiivid ,i    -iili.i tl  Ii3.odlll    oo.oid41*    odolI   161166900   S                                                                       - i   dlirdo241o
htipo9i- 'i*zdi9di0i9001   - (poi -9p1 3Pt00                                                                                                      ..0'  06061...1  9   0  -P-10    iq.iiOOld   OO -iIdl    I090;ii
2330  001  3  70i9 ~  000,0  016i  0911l10004dOiioId            17poW361LL   a" -
P.-"- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~vi  ldl'i    iioo  IidIliivp    o  lid(30   i7idl
oovo.,.tti ii oi9oP    o~Ali   -- dtdit,  -Po"  410'....G   .. .0660                                                           - ooi 97i1  ~                 io..  i
-39viii...693  itq   -  G.oid.00viSTild   iji1ojoi..i                                   siott    00t6909i09 I               i.i   IT01   di.  il..-;91
*iiiNilipiil ifldl    t0                               66  70  ',1  09109310.  tioo                     OOOd011.00i9oIio
tiloIqa. o.61I.                            .0                       960 6161 r.. '0(1'991 iO-lil_tM
po.ili   id93              dit.loit    li   0 .                   ldiii                       05Pod   0d'06zoi11  id-   16-60  -    6711037iiPoSvoo
lila  tiid  dii li~i64  -ltvdSiOdil  Tuil   Oil) t--5    Gtsiti                                                       61061..... M91'1101 06 09i
-01*0ti900Odidfl dl.ldd lo,-001              1000037SlstiiOO
nb  t  il IS t G9i  iiip iM6l'6-.-At iddliiilloT*iG   SoI  p0  '019  '905!OI-
'iitl  ddi*d.10G-0*   30-79  9                                  -Pio,jdi(Tod-*i6to0066pi'~tL
.-T-izqit;diiA"qpZIi 10*                    ifvo.p.  ovo                           '1   ii.d3Ol    ioiMIIl01007-liido.OOa'lli wiiOo
_A.      iiddilRIpOo_    _         iinl4d   iO310                                P-6  i3900I do9 G.d'9  Gi poiil     Oi'Sif(Y00i'ii
dhtiiii'G         idliiA'900toi  0lil   i    i%IoOi901.t &                                        i(030.5               -ill*o0ddi-9i,l4   i0-s    ',                    .9,i
59903W  306iiivit ivopovt.,ovl  61d I   ivo    zI  i ;v susIv-                                                                             piln   nim -6. .Ii
q9dd  i;  odhdooodl2009i03000d   O   iOiil*   1ioii  .flott000.100   Aitooi.  I,4  onS               W90 - --91006  009.100i           O.;9,vt
lif6vZOdi  10.0poivldl  I. ..... I0*;  -itli.OibfOddidpI-itl 0-
Gu. ilhqii   061-ilOd7660    169-910.0t00i-v.at1   Ol01  OOl9  *109J   do   W97*114109  31i
d036 ."..-P         0 .      - idv460.   d6 iid    13d9i139-tOOO                                          dii;6lti''Ol 9di97 d6 06 0009.9.3                       1 909  9
'Slilit.itz   ItIlTip  lit   o  390'66   *i  69170;o.   ln    i9   dtiO   i  dud1o1 T9... 303 tIii
ittioavd36 iiilib 3*.13  t Silotiili  61% it  1*   63  i*3                           te60         ot   t    i6~t000  SOtoO*  91  31663 A:63 'ItlfP
993376  '690  9006di11i071*iflzio  ltlldlOZIi ddoy                   I0I0I- 0*I.O        609000.01                        ..i.l'9061  ... 00.I30..61
i      Wt.      uA 103  T.391   Pitv  11-iOd -tii.060  -I jt i9 i0t63*               0601-P-040-1t100;I- MIS   d6166160
'ii00*0169di96i003  lviil*  39                                                       66   116i'11  17                d00*   *0
--I-- AT-  ""T-1  ~       ~         ~         TI               603  0~'00611 '0961 '15100 00 6 -I  Gt0io~    iIol   d1100   6t
A,T-  ""'d"   T-T ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1ooOo  -uC~wrrov
"70   3-liplO39 5I9ld pt--1 3.6...            1*3
idll70il ..A      b3*Ii"d   30P OWI'  16T900           -         Ad3.000  P.. 6003it33                                                                                        '66.IAl6., T7pq 0P
'IdOl 013661.  731100  6d  616 dtiq  OttldI1i0iddtto  06999''011  '061  601v1  tl odlti06  lil  0ittOdIl  311505P-
430196073  1030  3'.1.140911010*1"!   1i39.q  i1037t                    016096310910.2  pSi,m  .diT"O '-*70   00AR 6019'olIdl.                          o
%SdT  9ldOS!'130    0*6013   (300   610li40    00                                              13)IolilOoiod   olfi* 1T0"-699   04id'dO*                                         W
A".i    v    tIi 16   610       .3270i  .1100pd013
.*oiiil       --'3   690   1990 ('od'66ldi 'i1l0'3i61tt  1190                                                                                        ilp 601pI       '96
6  q  0)  6 T     49G    5   6666    ldtIOo000*601  iii   i q91                                                                            P.,-'ll6163i9730i   *36   Oiidoii6S   iio
9616ii6 dPdlvt9  '13313139  RiPtdtl.P 100 (7p1T-l0 10 1-   167G6 ado    600OddO    '606   t  141Od   0       91   041013
-130* S9.4ono4 t17 3OOa 30t0t91q1.;  0611.0G4 660 6        .1 63 SqI
70706  136.d060000110i3i6690*3              636d9333i1;q9                         01  16   iolPI11090 3T73.6901    .0396    .'.... 34103
0  0  9340966fl'hpi1000   369170  950-0t9dOO                                          06.001   0   003360.060.006110i  060399-Ti610li
614T60*0   d  tldOioltOi   01600  7701   060  7.'396.                                                  069  73606001Ildo-P                60  i60...90-  33
'933)*;6904 -9i0    i '06900         I I...d ..  ... .d0o   .0..0. io;-Ioa11......f..
69*7                                                                                                                                 17006  po~TP11mT-Iq1   'o937
"WP   f.   ...... ..                  ol61ildto70  510I06. .o ..0  OS1.31.p-63
63dltt096 .0*   01lidi*  9id  30  tddot. iiIl    373*0  003*30979 .30 .. 6t.161o  d...106   7610*9  9  i0   61330 3i1i  30707
3d 4,1lstsAiRi                                                                                     -P 0iv..   006000il   0ti69d01   *ttd*;tdtOS---i01d9   00ti 1.  0d631300096o07;vi
i3v  10  to9  76  d31391Ild   0;616lO3ddldi3303660036!O*0dO  .i6.o   tO PNIAIT671s*a  G3i6i  63'                    IilOdd  9l616i33
diOldii  dt3000t     Pdtl6  *d6   111   0   did   19 Ilt   i0796.  13*  noT-,666*01 90.6'00-6036   31T.03)0106*  36(od09  3
4.iossotyo .q  .i~  .uiil i.o6t  o30v,0  olt.o   930  0603 oodt'd  i 19 603403301 66)90391   * bot 00,00,  ni i9 (9  606t40%i 6031633 09



-48-
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81                                                                                            ANNUAL RATE OE GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion        X                                                              1969/70-1974/75       1975/76-1980/81      1980/81
GNP at Market Prices                        29.99        100.0                                                                  3.5                   6.3               6.2
Gross Domestic Investment                    4.87          16.2                                                                -5.S                   5.4               4*4
Gross National Saving                        3.94          13.1                                                                -2.1                   8.2              10.3
Current Account Balance                    -0.95            -
Resource Gap                               -2.93          -9.8                                                                  6.7                  15.1             -29.4
OlTPFUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80La
Value Added            Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    ;       Million    X        CSS  million    X
Agriculture                    7,538         30       13.2       54          571          56
Industry                      6,490          26        4.5       18       1,442          141
Services                      11,127         44        6.9       28       1.613          158
Total/Average              25,155         100       24.6     100        1.023          100
GOVERN'IENT FINANCE
General Governocnt                                          Central Governrent
(Rs billion)                X of GDP                      (Rn billion)               X of GDP
1980/81          1980/S1      1976/77-1980/81           1980181           1980/81      1976/77-1960/81
Current Receipts                   46.8              16.9            16.2                   36.1              13.0            12.4
Current Expenditures               36.8              13.3            14.0                   28.6              10.3            10.5
Current Surplus/Deficit           100.0               3.6             2.2                    7.5               2.7             1.9
Capital Expenditures               25.0               9.0             9.7                  21.5                7.8             7.8
External Assistance (net)           5.7               2.0             3.0                   5.7                2.0             3.0
MONEY, CR:DIT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81/b
Money and Quasi Money                       33.1          41.6         51.7         63.7         76.5         90.7         104.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          17.7          22.9         29.5         34.3         43.1        48.1           53.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)       19.7          23.1         30.1         35.7         42.7         50.6         58.7
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP               31.6         34.3         38.1         40.5         42.8         42.7          41.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)    211.3           229.4        255.3        271.4        289.7        316.7         358.8
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                       23.6            8.6        11.3          6.3          6.7          9.3          13.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          21.2          29.4         28.8         16.6         25.6        11.6          11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)       26.3          17.3         30.3         18.6         19.6        18.5          16.0
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underenumeration say enist, especially of wonen.
/b  Provisional.
Not applicable.
February 1982



-49-
ANNEX 1
IIA_  E OF PAYMENTSg                                                          (USS million)                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVER.MGC  1977/79-l9RfO/l)
1976/77      1977/78        1978/79       1979/80        1980/81 la                                          US$ Million
Export. of Goods. NFS                                  1.404        1.651          2.107          2.955         3.450                 R.. Cotton                     259.4             8.5
lport. of Cood.. NFS                                  2.877        3.297          4.485         5.709          6.385                Cotton Yarn                     179.3             9.8
Rasor-e Cap (deficit - - )                           -1.473       -1.646         -2,378         -2.754        -2,935                Cotton Cloth                    219.2            12.4
Rice                           393.2            19.6
Interest Paynts                                         -172         -183           -261          -285           -322                All Other Commodities         1,034.6            49.7
Worker.' Zemictancrs                                     578        1,166          1.395          1,748         2,117                   Total                      2,085. 7          100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                               15            62           134            151           193
Net Traw.xfer.                                            --            --             --                           --                      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEBR 31. 1980
Blance on Current Account                             -1,052         -601         -1.110        -1,140           -947
Direct Foreign bnve-stent                                               .                                                                                                       USS ail  ion
Net MLT Borroing                                                                                                                     Public Debt, Incl,iding Guaranteed          8,775.3
Di.burse-rets                                          961          841            813         1.134          1.067                Non-g.aranceed Pri-ate Debt /f
Amorti.ation                                          -175         -122           -235          -310           -358                  Total O.t.t.nding and Dioborsed           8.775.3
Sob Total                                              786          719            578           824            709
Transactions vith Iff /b                                 44            41           -14             78           331                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80 /z
Other Itens  .n.-. /c                                     24           163           238            600           217                                                           US$ Million
Increase in i.enrve-   (-)                               198         -322            308          -362           -310.               Pblic Debt. 1-1lding Guaranteed               12.1
Croa.   Rea er-es (year end) /d                          372          694            386            748         1.058                Kon-goaranteed Private Debt
Net Re.erves (yeoe end) /I                              -146           150           -92            340           330                  Total
Official Gold (year end; milli.n ounces)                 1.6          1.7            1.8            1.8           1.8                  IlRD/IDA LENDIX; (SEFTERI8t8 1991)  '0SS uillionl
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                                                                       18RD       IDA
Percole,m Importo                                        413          497            530         1,079          1.535                OutStanding and Disb-rsed                  312.2    825.6
Petroleun Exports                                         27           63             61            178           169               UOdisbut rdd                                 36.5    549.9
ItATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Outstanding. including U'ndisbor-d  348.7  1,375.5
RATE 0F EXCbANGE
Through Ma  11. 1972        May 11. 1972 - Februare 15. 1973         February 15. 1973 -  .anuary 8. 1982    Jnuar.  8. 19S2 lb
US$ e Rs 4 7619                 US$ - 11.00                                  USS - 9.90                         US$ 3     ;01.
Na  e US$0.2100                 R$  - 0.0909                                 Rs  - 0.1010                       Rs  - 0.09
/-  Government estiet.
lb Including Tront F-d.
/c  1oclud-g not short-tern b-rrowing and errors and omissloos
/d  Foreign  orhbange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e E-.ludieg cse of IMF credit.
/f Private debt is negligible.
LI  Latin of debt service to etports of goodse  non-factor nervices and  orkers' renittance-; not including thort-term or IMF charges.
jh Since January 8, 1982. value of rupee is being managed vith reference to a .eighted bunket of currencies
Not available.
February 1982



-50-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                  (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number   Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Eighty loans and credits fully disbursed /a            611.2            634.3
492     1974   Fourth Karachi Port                                       16.0    0.4
1107    1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0            -        0.7
546      1975   Industrial Development (NDFC)           -                30.0    0.5
1208T   1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     -      32.0     --       1.8
620     1976   Seed Project                             -               23.0    7.5
1326    1976   Development Finance (PICIC X)            25.0            -        0.4
630     1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               -               26.0    7.4
648     1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --               14.0    7.0
1366T   1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0      -        9.8
1372)   1977   Railways                                 35.0            -       12.8
684 )   1977   Railways                                 -               25.0    1.3
678     1977   Third Education                                           15.0    7.8
751     1977   Hill Farming Development                                   3.0    1.6
754     1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --               70.0   69.1
755     1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment           -                 1.7    1.5
813     1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                -                12.5    7.8
846     1978   Fauji Fertilizer                         -               55.0    6.6
867     1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               -                30.0    2.5
877     1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -                   60.0   58.8
892     1979   Primary Education                        -                10.0    8.6
922     1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              -                9.0    9.0
957     1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)          -                30.0   17.6
968     1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      -               45.0   39.2
974     1980   Third Highway                            -                50.0   41.3
1019    1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           -               40.0   29.2
1066    1981   Fertilizer Imports                       -               50.0   29.4
1109    1981   Vocational Training                      -               25.0   25.0
1113    1981   Small Industries                         -               30.0   29.9
1157    1981   Grain Storage                            -               32.0   32.0
1158/b  1981   Agricultural Research                    -               24.0   24.0
1163    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 -               41.0   41.0
1186/b  1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         -                30.0   30.0
Total7                                                 724.2  42.0  1,432.5  561.5
of which has been repaid                             432.3   -        28.4
Total now outstanding                                  291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.92- 
Total now held by Bank and IDA7T-                      291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Total undisbursed                                        13.9  11.6    536.0  561.5
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
lb Not yet effective.
Ic Prior to exchange adjustments.



-51-
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63      --       0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52      0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        4.43    0.84        5.27
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food         2.40    0.39       2.79
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and          29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-      1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board        2.70      --        2.70
rMills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
Total Gross Commitments                     63.91    9.84      73.75
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                38.85    1.01      39.86
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           25.06    8.83      33.89
Undisbursed (including participants)         3.15    0.53       3.68



-52-
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983.  Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool is virtually
completed. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have been met.
Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Construction of a
second power plant with six units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have
been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the Tarbela Development
Fund.
Credit No. 492         Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of March 31, 1982, disbursements
amounted to US$15.6 million. The balance is committed and final withdrawals
are expected by end-April 1982.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Closing Date of the Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982
to allow the Borrower to utilize undisbursed funds toward increasing the
capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas distribution system. Con-
struction should be completed in June 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-53-
Credit No. 546         National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975; Effective
Date: July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.5 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Most of the project components were commissioned in the last quarter
of 1980. Some payments are outstanding pending final comriissioning of the
remaining components. The Government has requested an extension of the
Closing Date to September 30, 1982 to accommodate payment of these sums.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of three processing plants
in Punjab due to disputes with civil works contractors. As presently
scheduled, the Punjab component should be completed by June 1983. The plant
in Sind is complete except for some silos and the machinery is installed.
The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extended to June 30,
1983.
Loan No. 1326          Development Finance Company (PICIC IX):  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date: November
29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.4 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted. Construction delays, however,
continue and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.



-54-
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due to
delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Canal remodeling,
surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily but the tile
and collector drain construction has progressed slowly. Actions have been
initiated with the Association's concurrence to curtail cost overruns and
reduce completion delays.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date;
August 3, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to estab-
lish about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service
activities. The contract of the milk plant consultants has been extended to
cover the period of construction and commissioning of the plant.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling srheme is making good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date:  July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally making good progress. Nearly all of civil
works contracts have been awarded and about 80% have been completed.  One
project study has been completed and the two others are nearing completion.
About 70% of the project equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now-
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Project implementation in Sind and Baluchistan is behind
schedule by about one year, due to initial delays in building construction.



-55-
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies are causing implementation problems, and the com-
ponents dealing with fodders, demonstration farms, apples and land-use are
progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most technical developments are progress-
ing satisfactorily and the training program is on schedule. A draft proposal
for a follow-up project has been received. Expenditures and disbursements
have been less than expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, chir pine forest inventory and pulping test
for chir pine, and the first phase of the feasibility study have been com-
pleted. As a result of these developments, the final phase of the
feasibility study is expected to commence in the Fall of 1982.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting consult-
ants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and commercial production is due to
start in April 1982.



-56-
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems. However, serious
well-drilling and management problems still persist. Project implementation
is about 15 months behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December
31, 1981, has been extended to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the
original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mar-
dan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Initial budgetary and other problems have been resolved and CIDA (the
project co-financier) is assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation
activities as well as in preparing subsurface drainage design and specifica-
tions. The project is about two years behind schedule.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Good progress is being maintained. About 80% of the project inputs
including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and trainilng have b*en
provided with less L'Lian six months' delay. the evaluation program is being
redesigned after the experiences gained in the first 18 months of evaluation.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project:  US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started. Recruitment of consultants has been delayed pending signing of a
project agreement between UNDP and the Government.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been satis-
factory and the agricultural engineering training component has begun. It is
anticipated that project completion will be about one year behind schedule.



-57-
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical assis-
tance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance, and several
contractors have shown interest in using loans through IDBP for purchase of
mechanical equipment.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980; Clos-
ing Date: March 31, 1984
As of March 31, 1982, about US$29 million had been authorized for
sub-loans and US$10.8 million disbursed. The Government and PICIC have taken
corrective measures to improve collections on past sub-loans, and implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding well.
Credit No. 1066        Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980; Effec-
tive Date: December 1, 1980; Closing Date: September
30, 1982
As of March 1982, about US$21 million had been committed. The Clos-
ing Date, originally June 30, 1981, has been extended to September 30, 1982
to accommodate the award of contract for and shipment of the remaining fer-
tilizer under the project.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Mil-
lion Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Agreements have been reached with ILO for the provision of technical
assistance services and for procurement of equipment, and a contract signed
with architectural consultants for the provision of design services. The



-58-
institutional and in-plant training components are about six months behind
schedule.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Sub-loan commitment started in January 1982 after key commercial bank
loan officers were trained in November/December 1981. Bidding for equipment
and selection of consultants for the service centers are in progress.
Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants for the export promotion
and the project development components are ongoing.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date: March
15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on March 15, 1982.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
April 29, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
May 19, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



-59-
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of Loan/Credit request to Bank/IDA:
October 1980
(b) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 1981
(c) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 1982
(d) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 1982
Section II:      Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
A supervision mission, to assist in preparation of disbursement
requests, is tentatively scheduled for end June 1982.
Section III:    Special Conditions
1.      It is proposed that the Loan and Credit would be released in two
tranches: $90 million (comprising $51 million equivalent from the Credit and
$39 million from the Loan) would be available for disbursement on effective-
ness and $50 million (comprising $29 million equivalent from the Credit and
$21 million from the Loan) after the Bank has reviewed and is satisfied with
the progress made by GOP in implementing the program outlined in GOP's state-
ment of development policies (Annex IV). The tranche review would take place
in October/November 1982. Paragraphs 89 to 93 outline the aspects of the
program on which significant progress is expected over the next 12-18 months
and which the Bank would closely monitor. Prior to the release of the second
tranche, GOP would submit to the Bank (see paragraph 94):



-60-
(a) its FY83-85 Public Sector Development Program;
(b) a report on GOP's decisions with respect to agricultural
input/output prices for the 1982/83 winter cropping season,
following the receipt of recommendations from the Agricultural
Prices Commission; and
(c) a review of the progress in implementing its accelerated gas
supply development program and of the need for any further
measures required to assure adequate investments.
2.      The Pakistan rupee equivalent generated by the foreign currency
withdrawals from the loan and credit accounts would be credited to a special
account with the State Bank of Pakistan and used to finance expenditures
under the annual development programs of the Federal Government to support
development expenditures in key economic and social sectors (paragraph 98).



-61-
Annex IV
May 11, 1982
Mr. A. W. Clausen, President
The International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and International
Development Association
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen:
GOP STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
1.      Over the past four years the Government of Pakistan has made deter-
mined and sustained efforts to revive and restructure the economy. A
further phased reform program is to be implemented over the coming years
including policies designed to raise productivity and economic growth,
focusing in particular on strengthening the overall supply position of the
economy; policies aimed at mobilizing domestic resources and attaining
price stability; and external policies to promote exports, encourage effi-
cient import substitution and liberalize import restrictions. We request
the World Bank to support our efforts with a program of structural adjust-
ment loans and associated technical assistance, commencing in 1982.
2.      The major medium-term objectives of the Government's reform program
are outlined in paragraphs 3 to 9 below. To place this program in context,
paragraphs 10 to 20 provide a summary of recent economic developments and
prospects, and the policy changes already made to address the problems
confronting the economy. This is followed by details of the proposed
further reforms which we intend to implement towards improving development
planning (paragraphs 21-28), the agriculture and water sectors (paragraphs
29-41), the energy sector (paragraphs 42-55) and the industrial sector
(paragraphs 56-63).
Objectives of the Government's Reform Program
3.      Macro-economic targets have been tentatively fixed for the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) in initial exercises. The Plan is likely to seek
a target growth rate of GDP of about 6-1/2% p.a. through FY88 with sectoral
growth rates in agriculture and manufacturing forecast at 5% and 10% p.a.,
respectively. Investment is planned to increase from 16% to the maximum
rate consistent with the savings and external balance objectives set out
below. Gross national savings are targeted to rise from 13% to 16% of GNP
with additional public sector resources to be derived from taxation
measures, reductions in subsidies and the internal generation of profits by
public sector undertakings through the pursuit of flexible pricing



-62-
policies. Efforts will be made to induce a substantial shift in the
balance between the private and public sector in total investment expendi-
ture: private investment is likely to rise from about one-third of the
total at present to about one-half during the Sixth Plan despite the need
for considerable public investment in the energy sector. The acceleration
in private industrial investment is expected to be even more pronounced.
Special emphasis will be directed towards improving private sector perfor-
mance by minimizing regulatory constraints on investment and providing
greater access to imported inputs.
4.      In the external sector, GOP recognizes that a fast rate of growth
of exports will be the key to successful external adjustment and restora-
tion of balance of payments viability. Adjustment measures envisaged under
the SAL reform program will strengthen production and investment and
thereby contribute to export expansion. A shift of resources to the export
sector will be stimulated by expanding access of exporters to imports and
foreign technology and the pursuance of a flexible exchange rate. Exports
are thus projected to rise significantly faster than the rate of import
growth, with the latter reflecting substantial import substitution in
energy, steel, fertilizer production, etc. The share of external resources
in total investment is projected to decline; the current account deficit of
the balance of payments is projected to fall as a proportion of GNP.
Another factor which will dampen import demand and promote export competi-
tiveness is the Government's intention of keeping expansion of domestic
liquidity in line with GDP growth in current prices and bringing about a
decline in the rate of inflation. Furthermore, fiscal deficits financed
from the domestic monetary system will be held at a level consistent with
the objective of reducing inflationary pressures and freeing an expanding
proportion of the total credit available for private sector use.
5.      Within the context of these broad macro-economic targets, the
Public Sector Development Expenditure Program for FY82-84 will shift
resources away from fertilizer subsidies and public sector industry towards
priority programs in agriculture, water, energy and social sectors. In
accordance with this program we propose to progressively reduce the alloca-
tions for fertilizer subsidy and public sector industry from 9.2% and 15.4%
in FY81 to around 2.8% and 4.1% in FY84 while increasing allocations for
agriculture and water sectors (excluding the fertilizer subsidy) from 19%
to 24% and allocations for the energy sector from 21% to 28% of total
development expenditures. These basic objectives will be retained for the
FY83-85 program and the Sixth Plan. All projects to be included in
development programs will be carefully evaluated to ensure that they are in
accordance with the priorities and policy objectives of GOP and that they
meet appropriate tests of economic efficiency.
6.      A major effort will be made to accelerate the pace of expansion of
education and primary health care (especially for females and in the rural
areas) as well as rural services (roads, electrification, etc.) during the
Sixth Plan both to develop human capital resources and to establish a more
equitable base for economic growth.



-63-
7.      In the agriculture sector, GOP will continue with its policy of
adjusting agricultural prices so as to bring them in line with the
long-term trend of international prices; maintaining incentives to farmers
while eliminating subsidies; improving cultural practices and water manage-
ment, and optimizing the use of the existing irrigation system through
improved maintenance and cost recovery. The newly estahlished Agricultural
Prices Commission will provide a firmer foundation for the implementation
of future output and input pricing decisions, especially in view of GOP's
aim of adjusting fertilizer prices as necessary to secure the intended
shLft .n resources envisaged in the PY82-84 Public Sector Program and to
eliLminate the subsidy by the end of FY85. GOP will also increase alloca-
tions for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system so as to
meet the anticipated requirement for adequate recurrent funding in FY85 and
raise water charges, or make other appropriate financing arrangements, at a
rate consistent with the objective of covering an increasing proportion of
operation and maintenance costs and achieving full cost recovery in accord-
ance with schedules already agreed with IDA. Finally, steps will be taken
towards the objectives of reducing the budgetary burden of public tubewells
by phasing out and/or divesting tubewells to the private sector where
feasible in fresh groundwater areas.
8.      In the energy sector, GOP is preparing an integrated perspective
plan for the coordinated development of all energy sources, the findings of
which will be reflected in the strategy of the Sixth Five-Year Plan to be
ready by June 1983. High priority is to be accorded to accelerating and
sustaining domestic oil and gas production through appropriate pricing
policies aimed at stimulating increased private sector investment in the
energy sector. GOP will continue to monitor closely the adequacy of these
pricing decisions and make such further adjustments as may be necessary in
the light of changing circumstances. A medium-term plan for increasing gas
production and distribution is being prepared in consultation with com-
panies so as to ensure that the investments necessary to avert emerging gas
shortages will take place. Furthermore, GOP intends to place the opera-
tions of the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) on a commercially
sound footing by establishing independent operating companies which would
closely associate OGDC and contractors and/or private partners in an
accelerated exploration program and the execution of development projects.
It is also proposed to continue with a policy of phased rationalization of
consumer prices of all energy forms particularly with respect to achieving
a more appropriate relationship between natural gas prices and the price of
alternative energy forms.
9.      In the industrial sector, GOP will continue its strategy of reviv-
ing private sector confidence in order to promote investment and exports.
A key element in this strategy is the program of import liberalization
designed to give domestic industry still greater access to imported capital



-64-
and intermediate goods while, at the same time, encouraging greater produc-
tive efficiency through exposure to foreign competition and technology. A
comprehensive study on the incentive structure facing manufacturing
industry is presently underway which will provide the basis for a progres-
sive simplification of the tariff structure and the achievement of a more
rational level of effective protection. GOP is also preparing an inventory
of regulatory constraints on industry with a view to eliminating all
unnecessary government intervention. A study on the performance of finan-
cial markets is also being conducted in order to improve their effective-
ness in mobilizing equity and debt financing and directing resources into
productive investment within the framework of the objective of progressive
introduction of an Islamic economic order. An action plan, designed to
improve the efficiency and financial performance of public sector
enterprises, is to be implemented from this year. It will provide for
further improvement in the information reporting system, in systems to
improve economic performance measurement and a performance incentive sys-
tem.
Recent Developments and Prospects
10.     On assuming office in 1977, the present Government was confronted
with an untenable economic situation created by the pursuit, over a period
of several preceding years, of excessively expansionary and misdirected
policies in a severely adverse international economic environment. Con-
siderations of productivity, efficiency and growth received insufficient
attention, private enterprise was sapped by the threat of nationalization,
and, while private investment dwindled in the manufacturing sector, the
degree and speed of public sector vYr            n.iderably exceeded the
financial, managerial and organlzatio i -R .urces at its command.  The
Government has, since 1977, sought '*o  ivi   snd implement policies and
programs aimed at the revival and cons lid; o. of economic growth and the
correction of past imbalances and at c nba   g adverse external circumstan-
ces.  These policies have been built o  a    niation of a firm commitment
to disciplined financial management, s as ., restrain budget and balance
of payments deficits within reasonable  ou .d.
11.     Due to a number of external fa::or:;. the task of economic manage-
ment has been exceptionally difficult ii r,cent years.  Events on Pakis-
tan's borders have created a need to improTe the nation's defenses and a
large burden of support to an influx of refugees. Pakistan's balance of
payments position has been adversely affected by the steep reduction in net
aid inflows during the latter years of the 1970s and the sharp, 28%
deterioration in its external terms of trade between 1978/79 and 1980/81.
Despite these difficulties, the Government has been able to bring budget
deficits down from 4% of GNP in FY79 to 1% of GNP by FY80 through concerted
efforts to limit expenditures, including the deferment or delaying of some
important but costly development projects, and through a sustained effort
to raise revenues. Internal revenues have grown at an average rate of



-65-
10.4% in real terms over the past four years, or from 14.9% to 16.6% of
GNP. The Government is also committed to phasing out budgetary subsidies
as speedily as possible except where they effectively serve an important
specific objective and to an extent which is consistent with sound
budgetary management. The share of subsidies in the Budget has fallen from
10.3% in FY79 to 8.4% in FY81 and is projected to fall to 6.0% in FY82.
12.     Because of resource constraints, the investment program of the
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1978/79-1982/83) could not be implemented as
originally envisaged. Given the need to limit investment spending and to
complete large ongoing projects commenced in earlier years, the intended
shift away from industrial towards agricultural, energy and social sector
investments could not take place. Accordingly, a new program for public
sector development has been drawn up for FY82-84 to consolidate and rein-
force the priorities laid down in the Fifth Plan strategy. This program
represents one of several measures that the Government has taken to stimu-
late structural adjustments; its major objectives as well as further steps
to strengthen the planning process are described later in this letter.
13.     On the supply side, our actions in the agricultural, industrial and
energy sectors have emphasized improvements in incentives, in the institu-
tional framework and in the allocation of public resources to stimulate
increased domestic production for export or for import substitution. In
agriculture, the Government has been redirecting its development activities
in conformity with the statement on National Agricultural Policy issued in
early 1980, the primary objectives of which are to increase rural incomes
and welfare through improvement in government extension, research and other
services; more efficient pricing for agricultural output and inputs;
redirection of government expenditures toward higher-yielding,
shorter-gestation projects; and better operation and maintenance of exist-
ing assets. Several price increases have been announced to improve farmer
incentives while containing and reducing the budgetary burden of subsidies
on farm inputs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has been established to
advise on a continuation of price adjustments in line with these objec-
tives.
14.     In industry, the principal objective of government policy over
recent years has been to encourage a revival of private investment and
improve the performance of the public sector. The provision of budgetary
funds for investment in new public sector projects has been kept to a
minimum. In both private and public industry, we have sought to improve
efficiency by providing appropriate signals and incentives; exposing
producers to increased competition from within and abroad; reducing
administrative restrictions; giving public enterprises greater autonomy;
and increasing labor productivity through training. These improvements
call for complex decisions and difficult structural changes which will
necessarily take time to implement fully. However, several measures have
already been taken to improve incentives for exports and for efficient



-66-
import substitution, and a substantial start has been made towards import
liberalization; this process will be extended by further reducing the
number of items subject to import bans and by rationalizing the system of
tariff and tax incentives.
15.     The world energy :risis has had a pronounced effect on Pakistan's
balance of payments; between FY73 and FY81 the share of POL in the total
value of imports has escaLated from 8% to 26%. The substitution of domes-
tic sources of energy for imported oil has, therefore, assumed major impor-
tance. We have sought to pursue this objective by developing and utilizing
non-oil forms of indigenoA1s energy such as hydro-electric power and nuclear
energy; by prospecting fo: new oil and gas fields; by accelerating the
development of known fields and by energy conservation. We have already
made encouraging progress in energy conservation and development. Succes-
sive adjustments in consumer prices of petroleum products have led to a
decline in household kerosene use. In the past few years, substantial
investments have been made in hydel generation and transmission facilities.
In addition, government policy has been successful in generating new domes-
tic oil exploration activity and seven new agreements have been signed in
the last three years involving commitments to drill about 15 exploratory
wells. Nonetheless, the Government recognizes that further steps must be
taken in the areas of conservation, integrated energy planning and develop-
ment, if a growing energy gap is to be avoided.
16.     While much remains to be done, the consistent pursuit of the
policies described above has already contributed to an encouraging recovery
in the economy. Since FY78, Pakistan's GDP has increased at an average
rate of over 6% p.a. Agricultural growth has averaged 4.2% p.a. The 35%
improvement in total wheat production during this time has had a par-
ticularly beneficial effect on the balance of payments. Our objective of
eliminating wheat imports has recently been attained, and there is a
reasonable hope that Pakistan will be able to sustain the cherished goal of
self-sufficiency in this important food commodity. Value added in the
manufacturing sector has increased by 8% p.a. over the last four years and
further increases can be expected following efficiency and productivity
gains in existing units, the completion of major public sector projects and
the recent welcome recovery of private industrial investment, which has
increased by 86% during FY78-81 and by an estimated 27% in FY81 alone.
17.     These improvements in agricultural and industrial production have
had a positive impact on the country's balance of payments. Export
receipts, which had more than doubled between FY77 and FY80, rose by a
further 20% in FY81. Despite a sharper increase in prices, imports have
grown less rapidly than exports, due to successful import substitution of
items such as wheat and fertilizers as well as general demand management.
Pakistan's balance of payments has also been assisted by a rapid growth of
remittances by Pakistani workers in the Middle East. As a result of these
factors, the current account deficit in the balance of payments declined



-67-
sharply from 6.7% of GNP in FY77 to 2.7% of GNP in FY81 despite a sharp
decline in our external terms of trade.
18.     The Government's determined efforts to strengthen the economy have
been recognized by the international community. In response to the
improvements already achieved and in support of a continuing policy of
sound demand management, phased progress towards import liberalization and
other supply side measures, Pakistan has been able to negotiate a substan-
tial medium-term arrangement for assistance from the IMF's Extended Fund
Facility. We have also arranged a short-term rescheduling of debt service
due on official concessional loans from bilateral members of the Pakistan
Consortium. In addition, there has been a welcome recovery in the trend of
foreign assistance for our development efforts since 1980. Consequently,
we can be reasonably confident of a manageable balance of payments situa-
tion to the end of FY83, provided that the prospects of the increase in aid
inflows is realized to the extent envisaged and the geo-political situation
does not take another turn for the worse.
19.     Looking beyond FY83 to the remainder of the 1980s, however, several
difficulties can be foreseen.  First, there is a danger of further worsen-
ing of Pakistan's terms of trade due to rising energy prices, stagnation in
world economic growth and a continuation of protectionist policies by
developed countries. Uncertainties also exist with regard to the future
growth of workers' home remittances. In addition, we cannot rely in the
long run on a sustained growth in external support to meet our financing
requirements. Based on these considerations, our projections indicate that
substantial balance of payment financing gaps are likely to emerge by the
mid-1980s.
20.     We recognize, therefore, that there can be no relaxation in the
process of policy adjustments on which we have embarked and, over the
coming years, we intend to manage the balance of payments by promoting
agriculture, energy and industry through reinforcing the actions already
taken with a program of measures aimed at improving sectoral policies and
institutions, and by strengthening the planning of public investments to
support these productive sectors. The details of this program of struc-
tural reforms are set out in the following sections.
Proposed Reform Program
I. The Planning of Development Expenditures
21.     As the Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY79-83) draws to a close, it appears
that actual performance will bear a mixed relation to its targets.
Achievements are quite satisfactory in some areas; for example, output
growth rates, export and import performance have all been close to plan
projections. In particular, record output of all major crops have been
obtained, resulting in self-sufficiency in wheat and reaching of export



-68-
targets for rice and cotton well before the terminal year of the plan.
However, there have also been significant shortfalls especially in the
execution of the investment programs. At the time that the plan was drawn
up, it was not possible to foresee the 1979 oil crisis and subsequent
slowdown in world economic activity, the sharp decline in net inflow of
concessionary assistance (accompanied by a reduction in the proportion of
non-project assistance), or the political developments in Afghanistan with
the attendant need for increased budgetary outlays on refugees and defense.
Owing to these factors, balance of payments and budgetary deficits have
been larger than anticipated in the plan. The resulting resource con-
straints, together with cost overruns on ongoing projects (notably Tarbela
and the Steel Mill) and increase in fertilizer subsidies due to rising
world prices, have meant that the increased emphasis intended to be given
to the public investment program for the agricultural, water, energy and
social sectors has been difficult to achieve.
22.     In order to address these problems, we have drawn up a three-year
public sector investment program together with other stabilization measures
for FY82-84 which would, with improved domestic mobilization and greater
external assistance, place Pakistan on a financially viable, efficient
growth path. This calls for a continued effort at increasing the rate of
investment to GNP together with further improvements in the ratio of public
savings to public investment. Reliance on government borrowing from domes-
tic banks is to be maintained at around 2% of GDP which is markedly below
the levels prevalent in the 1970s. A key feature in the program is the
reorientation of government expenditures over the three-year period away
from fertilizer subsidies and public sector industries, toward those sec-
tors which can contribute most significantly to medium-term structural
adjustment. The combined share of the fertilizer subsidy and public
industry will decline over the three-year period from 25% of total develop-
ment expenditures in FY81 to 8% in FY84. Excluding the fertilizer subsidy
and some other non-capital formation items, the investment component of
development expenditures will rise significantly in real terms.
23.     As described in more detail later in this letter, the focus of the
FY82-84 public development program in agriculture and water will be on
applied research, improvements in extension services, expansion of grain
storage capacity, increased provision of credit, the development of quality
seed production and marketing arrangements, rehabilitation of the irriga-
tion system and improvements in watercourses and on-farm water management
accompanied by improved operation and maintenance. The programs represent
a balanced approach to raise yields per acre and to achieve a more effi-
cient use of available inputs. The program for the energy sector
emphasizes the development of known sources of domestic energy, par-
ticularly hydro-electric power and gas, and the exploration of additional
indigenous oil, gas, nuclear and coal resources. These efforts will be
supported by policies and programs to conserve energy and utilize it more
efficiently. Programs in the social sectors will focus on the provision of



-69-
essential requirements such as primary education, basic health care, and
safe drinking water along with accelerated efforts to arrest the hiah rate
of population growth.
24.     The Government intends to "roll over" the FY82-84 program for one
year to cover the FY83-85 period, furthering the shift in emphasis in
public development expenditures outlined above and extending coverage of
the program to include the extra-budgetary activities of public
enterprises.
25.     In addition, to provide a longer-term perspective for development,
the Government intends to prepare a Sixth Five-Year Development Plan cover-
ing fiscal years 1983/84 to 1987/88. This plan will stipulate basic objec-
tives, spell out the development thrust and strategy, specify
macro-economic and sectoral targets, identify supporting government
policies and lay down investment programs for each sector. The investment
program will blend indicative targets for private sector capital formation
and its financing with firm programs for public sector investments and
their financing. The public sector component, including expenditure on
and financing of programs not directly funded through the budget, will
identify the nature of the project portfolio in each sector and aggregative
expenditure phasings by sector. Greater detail of individual project
schedules for the first two years of the public sector investment program
will be available in the three-year program for 1983-85 which is currently
under preparation.
26.     As in the case of the fifth and earlier plans, the implementation
of the Sixth Plan may be affected by unforeseeable circumstances like the
recent geo-political developments and the considerable degree of uncer-
tainty surrounding such key plan parameters as international commodity
prices, world economic activity, migrant remittances and aid inflows.
Accordingly, the Government will conduct a mid-plan review at the end of
the second year of the plan which will not only assess the likely devia-
tions from targets but take note of new circumstances and adjust, to the
extent necessary, the plan programs for the remaining three years. At that
stage, the Government intends to readjust the allocations to sectors and
major projects and the financing of these outlays for those three years in
the greater detail associated with the recent three-year program. Since
the first two years of the plan will be covered by the public sector
investment program being prepared for the period 1983-85 and the last three
years by the envisaged mid-plan review, we shall maintain throughout the
next six years a detailed three-year public sector program within the
context of five-year plans.
27.     The Government has taken various steps in recent years to
strengthen the planning mechanism and intends to reinforce them with other
measures in the next year or two. Medium-term planning was revived after a
lapse of several years with the launching of the Fifth Five-Year Plan in



-70-
1978. The recently formulated three-year Public Sector Program for 1982-84
underlined the Government's desire to maintain up-to-date public sector
programming.  As noted, the three-year program is being extended in an
expanded form for another year and work has been initiated on preparing the
Sixth Five-Year Plan. The Government has also instituted of late certain
procedures directed at safeguarding plan priorities and promoting timely
execution of projects. All new project proposals are carefully evaluated
on the basis of a reasonable economic rate of return before being imple-
mented within the public sector development program. In the case of aided
projects, instructions have been issued to all government agencies
prohibiting aid negotiations without the involvement or prior consent of
the Planning Division and insisting upon formal clearance of the project
before an aid agreement is concluded.
28.     Although the revised procedure for clearance and processing of
projects will introduce greater efficiency, we recognize that the prepara-
tion of good projects is a necessary pre-condition in the first instance.
The Government has been operating a number of courses on project prepara-
tion and a review of the courses suggests that improvements can be brought
about by there being a permanent institute to coordinate and run most
courses. We intend to establish such an institute utilizing the services
and facilities already available in the country, soon after the Sixth Plan
work ends in June 1983. The Government has also signed an Umbrella Project
with the UNDP which would, with the collaboration of the World Bank, place
funds and expertise for preparation of specific projects at the disposal of
the Government. One area in which problems largely remain unresolved is
that of project monitoring and evaluation. The Government intends to
finalize shortly a plan for satisfactory monitoring of projects including
an expansion in the number and capability of the staff in the project
monitoring section of the Planning Division. It is also intended to tackle
some other areas in which capability is deficient such as in economic
forecasting and energy sector planning. We will seek, wherever
appropriate, World Bank's advice and assistance in the measures for
strengthening the planning mechanism.
II. The Agriculture and Water Sectors
29.     As already noted, the Government has embarked on a long-term effort
to reorient its approach towards improving the productivity of agriculture.
Under our 1980 National Agricultural Policy (NAP), we intend to build on
recent efforts and take further actions to (i) increase the size and
improve the pattern of public expenditures within the agricultural and
water sectors; (ii) improve the provision of agricultural inputs to and
their efficient use by farmers; (iii) set appropriate relations between key
agricultural input and output prices; and (iv) make progress towards diver-
sification of agriculture.



-71-
30.     Reorientation of Public Expenditures.  Under the NAP, we intend to
shift expenditures towards:
(a) the rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of
the irrigation system;
(b) coordinating, designing and participating in the minor works
carried out by farmers below the canal outlet, such as water-
courses and on-farm improvements which, together with water
scheduling, will permit available irrigation water supplies to
be used more efficiently;
(c) promotion of private tubewell development in sweet groundwater
areas where this is consistent with drainage requirements,
supported by the expansion of rural electrification and super-
vised credit schemes;
(d) necessary drainage in waterlogged and saline areas to comple-
ment the existing surface distribution and tubewell system
where adequate drainage is the key constraint; and
(e) agricultural research, extension services, quality seed produc-
tion, credit arrangements and other essential complementary
activities.
The enhanced expenditures on these programs will be financed from an
increase in allocations to the agriculture sector as well as from curtail-
ment of fertilizer subsidy. We shall continue to aim at a progressive
reduction in the subsidy on fertilizer expressed as a proportion of the
total cost of producing, importing and distributing fertilizers. We intend
to eliminate the subsidies altogether by June 30, 1985, so long as this
does not render Pakistan's exports uncompetitive in world markets,
seriously disrupt cropping patterns, or impose socially unacceptable cost
increases.
31.     The three-year (FY82-84) public sector development program has been
drawn up in line with these objectives. Allocations for agriculture
(excluding the fertilizer subsidy), water (excluding expenditures on com-
pletion of the Tarbela Dam) and rural development will be increased from
15% of the total Annual Development Program (ADP) in FY81 to about 22% in
FY84; the fertilizer subsidy as a percent of total ADP is projected to
decrease from 9% to 3% over the same period. Similarly, allocations for
agriculture, water and rural development to Provincial ADPs will be sub-
stantially increased (from 19% to 34% of total ADP allocations for these
functions) to permit an expanded flow of resources to high-priority
activities which fall within the provinces' jurisdiction such as water
management, irrigation system rehabilitation, agricultural extension, seed
multiplication, rural roads and rural electrification. Federal allocations



-72-
to the water sector alone (excluding Tarbela) will be increased by about
50% over the three-year period, with the heaviest allocations for drainage
and reclamation; the proportion of the Federal ADP (again excluding Tar-
bela) for the water sector allocated to drainage and reclamation will be
increased from 40% in FY81 to 50% in FY84.
32.     For the agricultural sector, the most significant change is the
projected decrease in the relative and absolute size of the fertilizer
subsidy; the consequent release of resources will permit the allocations to
other aspects of agriculture to be more than doubled from FY81-84. Follow-
ing the substantial increase in fertilizer prices in February 1980, fer-
tilizer retail prices were increased by an average of just under 10% in
March 1982. We intend to keep the need for further adjustments under
review and will make adjustments as required to meet the targets for
reduced fertilizer subsidies as set out in the FY82-84 development program.
Taken together, the federal and provincial allocations for research, exten-
sion, foodgrain storage, seed supply, water management and fisheries have
been substantially increased; and substantial further additional alloca-
tions will be made to support the rehabilitation of the irrigation system
(see below).
33.     These shifts in expenditures will be further reviewed during the
preparation of the FY83-85 and subsequent public development programs.
Particular emphasis will be given over the next 18-24 months to the
preparation of future projects in line with the objectives of the National
Agricultural Policy. Some of this preparatory work is to be carried out
under the recently signed UNDP technical assistance agreement (the Umbrella
Project) for which the World Bank is to act as executing agency; the
projects to be prepared under this UNDP facility will include projects for
command area water management and drainage in saline groundwater areas as
well as the promotion of private tubewell development in usable groundwater
areas.
34.     Public sector tubewells in SCARP (salinity control and reclamation
program) areas were intended to lower the watertable to eliminate waterlog-
ging and improve soil drainability. In usable water zones, their pumpage
was to be used to supplement surface water supplies. By and large these
objectives have been achieved but due to scarcity of O&M funds and some
technical and managerial constraints some tubewells did not perform as
originally planned. GOP will take remedial action in the short term by
considerably enhancing the allocations for public tubewells to provide for
the full requirements for their maintenance and operation. As noted above,
in the medium to long term, we intend to reduce the budgetary burden of
public tubewells by promoting private tubewell development in all usable
groundwater areas, wherever this is consistent with drainage requirements,
and by phasing out and/or divesting public tubewells, based on the findings
of the SCARP Transition Project Preparation Study, which is being prepared
with the assistance of the UNDP and the World Bank. This transition is to



-73-
be supported by the expansion of rural electrification and supervised
credit schemes.
35.     Better use of existing assets will also be achieved by the real-
location of expenditures towards the improved operation and maintenance
of canals. A special allocation of Rs 150 million has been made to the
provinces for urgently required canal works in the FY82 Federal Budget.
Notwithstanding this increase, allocations for canal maintenance still
remain insufficient to meet requirements. In connection with the
IDA-funded Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project, the required levels
of operation and maintenance expenditures for the irrigation system have
been estimated up to FY85. Allocations for O&M will be increased annually,
in excess of the expected rate of annual cost increases, in order to reach
the specified estimated requirements by FY85 or appropriately revised
figures as may be agreed with IDA. To improve the extent of cost recovery
for such expenditures, water charges have been increased by 25% in each of
FY79, FY81 and FY82. In future years, Provincial Governments will increase
water charges periodically (at intervals of not more than two years, sub-
ject to any necessary legislative approval) or make other appropriate
financing arrangements to achieve full cost recovery in accordance with
final deadlines for various provinces as agreed with IDA.
36.     Under the Constitution of Pakistan, the Provincial Governments are
vested with the right and responsibilities of maintaining and developing
the water resources within their boundaries.  However, the Federal Govern-
ment has assumed responsibility in the case of certain functions such as
waterlogging and salinity control because the lumpiness, long-gestation
periods and complexity of the task often placed these essential require-
ments beyond the financial, organizational and technical capability of the
Provincial Governments. The division of responsibilities between the
Federal and Provincial Governments has on occasions led to an upsetting of
priorities. The Government reviews the priorities on the basis of a com-
prehensive assessment whenever five-year plans, or the more recent
three-year programs, are prepared and at other times as well if the need
for a review has arisen. The Government will be fixing the priorities
while preparing the Sixth Five-Year Plan and will also consider in that
context any impediments to the fulfilling of priorities. Meanwhile, the
Government has shown flexibility in relaxing normal procedures where they
stood in the way of implementing key activities; for example, it has
decided to provide aid as a supplement to budgeted provincial Annual
Development Programs in the case of the IDA-funded Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project.
37.    Improved Supply of Inputs.  The adequacy and timeliness of the
supply of agricultural inputs are being improved by a combination of better
planning prior to the sowing of major crops and close monitoring of
progress during the cropping season. Supplies of water, for example, are
being managed so that releases from irrigation canals and the operation of



-74-
public sector tubewells are geared to the seasonal requirements of farmers
in different parts of the country. As indicated above, we also plan to
increase substantially the efficiency and the operational capability of
public tubewells in usable groundwater areas which will enhance the supply
of irrigation water in coming years.
38.    The Government has arranged for the supply of additional amounts of
good quality seed through government agencies and has launched seed cer-
tification programs to extend coverage to the private sector as well. The
IDA-supported seed project, which is a central part of this effort, is now
well under implementation and will be completed with all possible speed.
Efforts to ensure that fertilizer is available in required quantities in
all parts of the country at the required time, and is backed up by adequate
credit arrangements, have also made good progress and will be continued.
Over the period FY79-82, institutional credit to agriculture has increased
at an annual average rate of 35% p.a.
39.     Agricultural Pricing Policies.  The Government's policy of setting
crop support/procurement prices for major crops to provide incentives for
increased production has helped to bring about the recent welcome improve-
ment in agricultural production. However, we have become increasingly
aware that, up to now, the determination of support/procurement prices for
eachl crop has been somewhat subjective. In order to rectify this, an
Agricultural Prices Commission (APC) was set up in March 1981. Its terms
of reference, formulated in consultation with the Bank, direct the APC to
provide consistent and timely recommendations on appropriate crop and input
prices based on a continuing and scientific analysis of farm-level data and
taking into account effects of prices on agricultural productivity and
their indirect impact on other parts of the economy.
40.     The APC, though not yet fully staffed, has already begun to perform
its function of strengthening the information and analytical basis for
agricultural pricing decisions. The APC headed a recent task force which
has provided guidance to the Government on medium-term fertilizer pricing
policy. In the coming months, necessary steps will be taken to staff the
APC. In addition, studies will be initiated to improve the quality of
APC's work. An initial work program, based on an outline discussed with
the Bank, would be directed toward (a) designing a system for the collec-
tion of farm-level data; (b) initiating and assisting the collection of
information on international prices and production of Pakistan's major
crops; and (c) developing methods of measuring the impact of price recom-
mendations on consumers' and farmers' real incomes. Such a work program
would lead to the development of a methodology for preparing price recom-
mendations, with supporting analysis, on a timely basis. Assistance from
IDA in these areas under the proposed Technical Assistance Credit will be
important to APC in this early phase of its development.



-75-
41.     Diversificatior. of Agriculture.  The NAP stresses the importance of
a balanced emphasis on all aspects of agriculture, including livestock,
fisheries and new crops in addition to the four existing major crops of
wheat, rice, cotton and sugarcane. The most intensive effort toward diver-
sification in the immediate future will be to increase the domestic supply
of oilseeds. Current domestic production of edible oil is mostly a
by-product of cotton production and specialized oilseed crops are not grown
on an extensive scale.  As a result, domestic production has not been able
to increase in step with the rapid growth of demand and imports have risen
at an alarmingly high rate. The import bill for edible oil is already
approaching $300 million a year and is likely to climb higher. To remedy
this situation, the Government has prepared and introduced a crash program
for oilseed cultivation which envisages an increase in the area under
cultivation of soybean, sunflower and safflower from 11,400 acres in
1978/79 to 85,000 acres in 1982/83. Research on quality seeds and cropping
practices, extension work, institutional support and price incentives will
be focused on the attainment of these targets. A high-level Board has been
set up to advise the Government on the various aspects of increasing oil-
seed production in the shortest possible time.
III.  The Energy Sector
42.     The Government is conscious of the urgent need for the development
of domestic sources of energy and for increased emphasis on energy conser-
vation as a response to the sharp increase in international energy prices.
Pakistan possesses a number of potentially important donestic sources of
energy including hydro-electricity, oil, natural gas, coal, atomic energy,
fuelwood and other renewable forms. We are taking steps to promote an
orderly development of all of these potential sources.
43.     In April 1981, the National Energy Policy Committee directed that a
ten-year integrated energy plan should be prepared. Preliminary work on
the energy plan has been started by the Director-General of Energy Resour-
ces under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources. GOP has invited
a team of experts from the International Energy Development Corporation to
help prepare the energy plan. This work will be coordinated in the Plan-
ning Division. A comprehensive study of the projected demand and supply of
gas, which was completed with Bank financial assistance in December 1981,
will form the basis of a medium-term gas supply strategy and will be
integrated into a coherent long-term energy plan after other subsectoral
studies have been completed. The tentative findings of the study will be
included in the strategy of the Sixth Five-Year Plan due to be ready by
June 1983.
44.     While the exact role of various domestic energy sources remains to
be clarified by the above studies, there is a clear need to promote further
exploration for domestic oil and gas supplies and to accelerate the
development of already known fields in order to reduce the present high



-76-
dependence on imported oil and to avert the large supply shortages for
natural gas which would emerge in the absence of increased production.
Domestic crude oil production currently accounts for less than 15% of
requirements and has fallen short of planned volumes in recent years. The
major private domestic oil producer has encountered serious difficulties
due to lower than estimated reserves and high development costs associated
with difficult drilling conditions. The Government has recently responded
to these problems by renegotiating the well-head price for production from
new wells to take account of the higher marginal cost of incremental as
against existing production. The new, higher marginal price has been
indexed to maintain it as a constant proportion of world marker crude oil
prices and will provide an adequate incentive for the completion of planned
work programs over the coming years.
45.     Import-parity related prices are also offered for oil to be
produced from fields where discoveries have already been made but where
further exploration is required prior to commercial production, and for oil
produced from newly discovered fields. In each case, the contracts provide
incentive well-head prices which reflect the different degrees of risk and
likely costs involved in development. These arrangements have been suc-
cessful in attracting interest in exploration and further development. A
record number of 26 wells are expected to be drilled in Pakistan during the
12 months ending in June 1982 and domestic production of crude oil is
expected to reach 14,800 b/d in FY82 and 17,500 b/d in FY83, compared to
10,000 b/d in FY80.
46.     Domestic natural gas supplies currently meet 42% of total commer-
cial energy use in Pakistan, with almost all production coming from two
large fields (Sui and Mari). Negotiations have recently been completed
with the operator of the Sui field which will ensure that necessary invest-
ments take place to maintain the existing volume of gas delivered from the
Sui field.
47.     A new general approach has been recently adopted by the Government
for negotiations to induce investments to increase gas supplies beyond
currently contracted amounts. These new arrangements represent a departure
from the previous policy of fixed nominal prices or fixed rates of return
on share capital, to an approach that is more in line with recognized
international practice. For each proposed development, (i) a "base price"
will be negotiated to yield an agreed internal rate of return on total
project costs; and (ii) the "base price" will be indexed to world oil
prices.
48.     The rates of return will be negotiated taking into account the
different risks applying to various developments. In cases where the costs
of development remain subject to considerable uncertainty at the time of
initial negotiations (e.g., because substantial further explora-
tion/appraisal is required before development), the base price may be



-77-
subject to review at a predetermined point in the development schedule
after the scope of the required investment has been more precisely defined;
the modalities of such a review would be agreed at the time of the initial
negotiations.
49.     The success of our new approach will have to be judged by its
results in terms of inducing the investments which will be necessary to
eliminate the emerging gas supply shortages. In this context, we have
reviewed the analysis contained in the World Bank financed Gas Supply and
Demand Study. In the light of this study, we have drawn up a proposed
medium-term plan for increasing domestic gas supplies. We are currently
engaged in negotiations with various companies to ensure that the necessary
investments to increase gas production in line with this plan take place.
We have agreed with the Bank that we will review the progress made in these
negotiations and consider in consultation with the Bank by October/November
1982 if any modifications in our approach are necessary.
50.     We envisage an important continuing role for the public sector Oil
and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) in the development of domestic
energy sources. In the recent past, OGDC has experienced difficulties in
implementing its work program at the Toot field due to the difficult drill-
ing conditions and problems caused by the loss of experienced personnel.
The overall performance of OGDC also needs improvement. We have received
proposals from consultants for strengthening OGDC and for restructuring its
activities. We have taken these recommendations into account and have
adopted a reform program designed to place OGDC on a more commercial foot-
ing. Salaries for key staff have been increased; increased delegation of
authority to field development teams has been provided, with independent
operating companies to be established for the development of Pirkoh and
Dhodak fields; and the well-head price of oil produced by OGDC is being
raised.
51.     At the same time, we have undertaken a review of strategies and
priorities for OGDC in order to develop activities in line with OGDC's
implementation capacity and the prospectivity of areas held by OGDC under
license. In view of past difficulties in implementation at the Toot field,
arrangements with drilling contractors have been revised and a new manage-
ment structure has been set up, supported by expatriate experts. Over the
next few years, the public sector fields at Pirkoh and Dhodak will be
brought into production. We have negotiated a loan with the Asian Develop-
ment Bank for the development of the Pirkoh gas field by a fully owned
subsidiary of OGDC which is scheduled to begin production of 72 million
cubic feet of gas per day in December 1983. For the development of Dhodak
gas and condensate field a reservoir engineering study, financed by the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility, has been completed. To facilitate
development of this field, initially through a pilot project based on gas
reinjection to recover between 2,000-3,000 barrels per day of condensate,
we intend to negotiate joint venture or contract arrangements with



-78-
experienced operators witlhin a financial framework in which payments to the
contractor are related to performance.
52.     The Government has also assessed OGDC's capability to conduct an
adequate exploration program over its license areas. We have directed OGDC
to enter into joint ventures with private companies, to drill prospects
where OGDC cannot conduct exploratory drilling using its own resources in
the medium term; any such arrangements would need to reflect adequately
past expenditures and risks taken by OGDC, the potential for the areas
concerned, and also provide adequate incentives to investors.
53.     The Government is fully aware that energy conservation through
avoidance of waste, encouraging efficiency of energy use and the curbing of
excessive demand are imperative. Over the past three years, we have raised
prices of petroleum products in response to sharply increased international
prices and intend to continue to follow a policy of passing on further
increases in petroleum product costs to final users.
54.     The Government has pursued a policy of maintaining user prices of
natural gas at relatively low levels in order to encourage the substitution
of gas for oil consumption and to counterbalance other inflationary pres-
sures on costs.  The prices of natural gas to users at the end of 1981
averaged about $1 per mcf, well above the present average cost of produc-
tion and distribution but well below the value of the fuel oil energy
equivalent. However, the time when one large low-cost field (Sui) could
meet Pakistan's increasing gas requirements is now over, and the marginal
costs of additional gas supplies are likely to be considerably higher. In
addition, with gas consumption increasing rapidly and serious gas shortages
emerging, the need to limit the growth of demand and to encourage conserva-
tion has been underlined.
55.     We have, accordingly, embarked on a policy of rationalizing the
prices of alternative energy forms to all users through a program of phased
increases in gas prices. As a first step, prices to users were raised by a
weighted average of around 20% from January 1, 1982. While the size and
timing of further increases will need to be carefully determined, we intend
as a minimum to raise gas prices to cover all incremental costs of develop-
ment and exploration. However, in order to achieve a more appropriate
relationship between natural gas consumer prices and the price of alterna-
tive energy forms, we intend to implement further increases so that, by
FY88, internal gas prices will equal two-thirds of the fuel oil energy
equivalent measured in relation to the average unit f.o.b. values of fuel
oil re-exports from Pakistan in that year. We intend to review the situa-
tion annually and take necessary action to maintain adequate progress
towards these objectives.



-79-
IV. The Industrial Sector
56.     Ever since it took office in 1977, the present Government has taken
effective steps to restore dynamism and efficiency in the industrial sec-
tor. In order to revive the interest and confidence of entrepreneurs, who
were demoralized by a series of abrupt nationalizations in the preceding
years, the Government announced various safeguards, incentives and other
measures inviting fuller participation from the private sector in the
country's industrial development.  Thousands of units for processing
agricultural crops were denationalized early on and some other units sub-
sequently; a provision was made in the Constitution guaranteeing fair
*            compensation in case of any further nationalization; the previous demarca-
tion of the spheres for the public and private sectors was altered opening
up almost all areas for private investment; an investment schedule was
announced for the Fifth Plan period identifying the dimensions of invest-
ment being sought in various product groups; the procedures for investment
sanctions were streamlined and simplified; and various fiscal and commer-
cial facilities were provided to induce investment in and promote exports
of manufactures. Side by side with reviving private investment, the
Government carried out certain reforms to enhance efficiency and
profitability of public enterprises. The various steps taken by the
Government have met with a good response. Between FY77 and FY81, value
added in the manufacturing sector has increased at an average annual rate
of 8% per annum compared with 2.8% in the previous seven years; exports of
manufactures have increased at a rate of 10% per annum in volume terms; all
public corporations in the manufacturing sector are now making profits; and
private investment has recovered.
57.     The efficient expansion of the private sector within an acceptable
socio-political framework, and the consolidation and improved performance
of the public industrial sector continue to form the primary aim of our
industrial policy. Although the recent recovery in both private and public
industry has been encouraging, the general state of the industrial sector
in Pakistan needs to be further improved. We recognize that further
measures will be required to modernize the industrial structure, to
increase the competitiveness of industry, and to strengthen the base for
industrial growth over the longer term.
58.     After the completion of ongoing public industrial projects, the
Government's policy will require public enterprises to meet most of their
investment needs through self-financing or sources outside the Government's
development program. Public exchequer funding of industrial development
will generally be confined to modernization and balancing of capacity of
existing public sector units and investments in such areas where the
private sector is not forthcoming. In sectors where it proves difficult to
attract private investment, we will examine closely the incentives and
possible problems facing investors; in all cases public sector investment
from budgetary or non-budgetary sources will only be undertaken after



-80-
thorough feasibility studies to ascertain the economic viability of the
proposed project.
59.     In order to increase the profitability and efficiency of public
sector manufacturing enterprises, the Government has already implemented a
number of reforms such as the establishment of boards of directors, includ-
ing representatives of private shareholders, for each unit; the delegation
of increased authority to these units and to the public sector holding
corporations; the closure of several plants which had little prospect of
improved financial performance; and the sale of some units to the private
sector. We are actively considering the further divestment of twelve
public companies in order, inter alia, to reallocate scarce managerial
talent to achieve improvements in the performance of retained enterprises.
For another five enterprises, steps are being formulated to strengthen
their financial position through injection of equity capital and revisions
of duties, taxes and sale prices.
60.     In addition to streamlining and decentralizing the structure of
public sector production, the Government wishes to link greater autonomy
with greater accountability; more operational flexibility must be accom-
panied by more responsibility for results. The Government has decided to
establish, under the direction of the Experts Advisory Cell in the Ministry
of Production, an information and signaling system for monitoring and
evaluating the behavior of public enterprises, together with an incentive
system for rewarding managers for performance. This project started in
August 1981 and will, over a period of three years, develop and apply
increasingly effective methods for evaluation and for providing incentives
for improved performance. We have requested technical assistance from the
World Bank to support this project.
61.     The Government has offered a number of improved incentives for
exports and efficient import substitution over the past four years. The
fixed link of the Pakistan rupee to the US dollar was terminated in January
1982 and the exchange rate has moved from Rs 9.9 = US$1 in January to Rs
11.7 = US$1 in April 1982. As already noted, the exchange rate will be set
in a flexible manner to help ensure the competitiveness of Pakistan's
exports. The scope of the export financing scheme has been expanded, the
system of standard rebates of taxes on inputs for manufactured exports has
been extended and minimum export price controls have been substantially
abolished. We have also embarked upon a major program for import
liberalization in consultation with the IMF which would not only give
producers greater access to raw materials but expose many sheltered
industries to competition from imports (export industries already enjoy the
privilege of importing banned raw materials). The Government has already
allowed imports of over 300 banned raw materials and intermediate goods and
is contemplating further liberalization in the coming years. It will be
our endeavor to replace by July 1984 the present "positive list" import
policy in which imports are deemed to be banned unless explicitly allowed



-81-
to a "negative list" in which imports will be allowed except when
explicitly banned. We intend to reduce the items on the negative list to
as small an amount as is compatible with our social and economic interest.
62.     We recognize that the measures already taken and the contemplated
liberalization should be reinforced by a review of the overall set of
incentives facing industry with a view to rationalizing a system which has
evolved over a long period of time in response to diverse sets of circum-
stances and objectives. Our objective, as noted in paragraph 9 above, is
to achieve a progressive simplification of the tariff structure and the
achievement of a more uniform level of effective protection. To prepare
for such rationalization, a study of the system is necessary to determine
its impact and the extent to which present incentives deviate from govern-
ment objectives. To this end, the Government has initiated a large-scale
study on "Effective Protection and Incentives Reform" to be conducted by
the Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE) and supervised by a
high-level steering group chaired by myself. To support this study, which
we expect to be completed by December 1982, the Government has requested
technical assistance from the Bank. Following the review of the findings
and recommendations of the study by the steering group, the Government
would introduce changes in tariffs and other fiscal incentives to apply
from July 1, 1983. The Government is currently compiling a comprehensive
inventory of the regulations and other restrictions facing industrial
enterprises, with a view to considerably reducing their number.
63.     As a result of our efforts to stimulate private industrial activity
in order to facilitate the shift in public sector development expenditures
towards other high-priority areas, there has been a welcome, rapid resur-
gence of private investment in the last three years. The bulk of this
investment has been in medium and small-scale projects. However, we are
also concerned with the need to promote larger scale investments. Given
the size of the domestic market and Pakistan's resource endowments, there
is considerable scope for large-scale projects requiring long-gestation
periods, some of which would be required to make further progress towards
import replacement. In view of the risks and lumpiness of such projects,
there may be difficulties in obtaining a sufficient flow of private invest-
ment in these capital-intensive areas. We have decided to carry out
studies of some key sectors in order to identify the likely investments
required in these sectors over the next decade, determine the types of
policies necessary to promote such investment, and consider the possible
need and/or relative advantage of Government involvement through joint
*         ventures with the private sector, or if necessary through sole ownership.
These studies will, among other things, analyze the adequacy of infrastruc-
ture, raw materials, credit and financial incentives and pricing policies
to promote the necessary volume of investment. We plan initially to under-
take such studies for fertilizers, cement, chemicals and downstream
facilities for utilizing output from the Pakistan Steel Mill and have
requested World Bank assistance for the studies on fertilizer and cement.
Signed:       Ghulam Ishaq Khan
Minister for Finance,
Planning and Economic Affairs



-82-
ANNEX V
PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of Fund Resources
(In millions of SDRs)
Gross Credit Drawings                                                    4/  Undrawn Balance
Compensatory               Regular    Trust                 2/             Net       of Agreed
and Buffer       Oil    Stand-Bys    Fund         1/  Repay-        3/  Credit    Stand-By or
Stock Drawings  Facility  and EAs  Borrowing Total  ments  Charges Drawings              EA 5/
1973                                 60.00               60.0   40.00    2.41LY   20.00         15.00
1974                      97.94      32.00              129.94  20.00    4.14   109.94          58.00
1975                     103.42      58.00              161.42  25.00   14.64   136.42
1976        90.50         34.65    -18.00 7/            107.15  42.00   23.84    65.15
1977        27.00                    40.00    25.15    92.15  68.91   26.74    23.24            40.00
1978                                 40.00    72.26   112.26  84.33   27.05    27.93
1979                                 21.22               21.22  80.65   23.68   -59.43
1980                                105.01   131.37   236.38 107.00   19.56   129.38    1,169.00
1981                                482.86      0.89   483.75 132.58   25.45   351.17           749.00
Thru Feb.1982                                                     2.17   20.00k'  -2.17         749.00
Mar.-Dec.1982                       375.00 9/                    76.04   71.31
1983                                374.00 9/                    30.91  130.32
1984                                                             71.05  140.92
1985                                                            158.16  131.65
1986                                                            244.87  111.84
1987                                                            303.49   83.67
1988                                                            277.89   53.43
1989                                                            211.54   29.45
1990                                                            144.85   14.50
1991                                                             82.78    5.7210/
1/  Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings,
compensatory facility drawings; and buffer stock drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
2/ Repayments through Repurchase and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing.
3/ Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
4/ 1 - 2.
5/ Undrawn balance of stand-by or extended arrangement with statement of remaining period of
atrangement.
6/ Repayments made during period May 1-December 31.
7/ Represents reclassification of credit tranche drawings as compensatory drawings in
July 1976.
8/ Charges to date.
9/  Projected.
10/ Reflects charges through end October only in the case of CFF and ordinary resources
purchased under SBA and EFF.



IBRD 16248
64                                                                    72L       U. S S R            MARCH 1982
C HNA
PAKISTAN                                                            I-
36 0                                                                                              /   r                            <363
3    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o     CITIES AND TOWNS                                           I                       R
NATIONAL ROADS                                            '/
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
*+.    AIRPORTS                                                                  \ '4ppro-o-at LtOss o! Co-trol
-    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      ( tensan.ar            \LA LAMABA[D
'AN   I  p   3    >   '   '  t   lt          <~                                SoQ     20       300     400
,t.gOw   ~~~~~~~~RIES                                                                            w SQ\Npx
J-t   S X  S-9>  {  1   _ _  >@onmloSl  H H  ederszbod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th cnrn,tte f heredes ,
:           t.3tleii Ptch  >,? \gX                        .               W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te eorLt3 to5 eattach,',a oacedbYh
\> 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boud ar,e T~ette   so... theamap
2Y                                                           1                                              do not mp. on the part of the2-
A, abia  3n    5 f3a                        ;                                               anyV terrttorr hr anp enduranmtentt
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o acetneo obhodra
,40                                                                     05>L0tS8   V  7



