Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
April 28, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6510 
(The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
Second Safety Net and Social Sector Reform Program 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Country 
Republic of Latvia 
Sector 
General education sector (30%); Health (30%);Other social 
services (30%);General public administration sector (10%) 
Operation ID 
P121796 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
1
Smilsu Street 
Riga 
Latvia 
LV-1919 
Tel: (371-6) 708-3886 Fax: (371-6) 708-3898 
Agnese.Timofejeva@fm.gov.lv 
Date PID Prepared 
April 28, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
April 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 26, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The combination of credit and housing bubbles, the global financial crisis, and acute 
banking pressures in Latvia contributed to a severe crisis in late 2008
.
The Latvian 
government responded to the crisis with a reform program supported by the EC, the IMF, and 
bilateral donors. The program goals were to arrest the immediate liquidity crisis and to ensure 
long-term external stability, while maintaining the exchange rate peg through strong domestic 
policies. Its key elements included: (i) immediate measures to stem the loss of bank deposits and 
international reserves; (ii) steps to restore confidence in the banking system in the medium-term; 
(iii) fiscal measures to limit the substantial widening of the budget deficit, and to prepare for 
early fulfillment of the Maastricht criteria; and (iv) incomes policies, including the adjustment of 
nominal wages both in the public and private sector as well as structural reforms to rebuild 
competitiveness under the fixed exchange rate regime. 
 
2. 
The country’s stabilization program is based on a sizeable fiscal adjustment
.
Expenditure cuts dominated the adjustment initially, contributing more than three-quarters of the 
consolidation. Spending was cut by 14 percent of GDP during 2009-2010 as compared to 
Page  2
projected fiscal outcomes prior to the program. As a result, the fiscal deficit declined to 6.5 
percent of GDP in 2010, from 7.1 percent in 2009 (or in ESA95 terms to an estimated 7.7 
percent of GDP from 9.7 percent). The size of the fiscal adjustment required, together with the 
economic contraction and rise in unemployment, greatly increased the risk of adverse impact on 
households. In addition, the government embarked on an ambitious structural reform program in 
the education and health sectors involving fiscal cuts. Recent economic performance has been 
better than expected, and Latvia has returned to positive growth in the third quarter of 2010 for 
the first time since the onset of the economic downturn. Yet, the unemployment rate is falling 
very slowly and remains high at 17.2 percent. Moreover, there appears to be a large disparity in 
employment opportunities depending on education levels, pointing to a possible problem of 
structural unemployment for the poorer socioeconomic groups coming out of the crisis.  
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
 
3. 
This is the second operation in a program of two loans focused on Safety Net 
Support and Social Sector Reform; the first Special Development Policy Loan (SDPL 1) 
was fully disbursed on September 27, 2010.
 The objectives of the program are: (i) to protect 
vulnerable groups with emergency safety net support during the economic contraction; (ii) to 
mitigate the social costs of fiscal consolidation; and (iii) to ensure that structural reforms lay a 
foundation for medium-term improvements in the social sectors. The first loan focused on the 
first and second objectives given the need for an emergency response. While concentrated on 
continuing support for the emergency social safety net measures through to end-2011, the 
proposed operation expands the focus to the third objective.  
III. Operation 
Description 
 
4. 
The Second Special Development Policy Loan (SDPL 2) supports the 
implementation of the government’s Emergency Social Sector Net Strategy (ESSNS), which 
is designed to mitigate the social impact of fiscal consolidation
.
The strategy came into legal 
effect on October 1, 2009 and is due to remain in place until end-2011. The strategy finances and 
coordinates the efforts of national and local government agencies to: (i) maintain pre-primary 
education and child development programs for 5 and 6 year old children; (ii) cover the costs of 
transporting students from communities where schools have closed to their new places of 
instruction; (iii) exempt needy households from health service co-payments; and (iv) subsidize 
their pharmaceutical costs; (v) sustain and improve general practitioner (GP) and primary health 
care (PHC) services and access; (vi) increase the coverage and pay-out period of unemployment 
insurance; and (vii) increase the coverage and amount of targeted social assistance benefits 
administered by local governments. For the unemployed who are not covered by unemployment 
insurance or other social support, the government has (viii) fortified the safety net by rapidly 
deploying a labor-intensive emergency public works program. 
 
5. 
The ESSNS is aimed at protecting the vulnerable from the adverse impacts of the 
crisis, and also at supporting the reform program that underpins fiscal adjustment in the 
education and health sector
.
The government has embarked on a “funds follow the student” 
financing reform in the education sector to increase efficiency and education quality in light of 
the shrinking school-age population. The switch to this form of financing creates incentives to 
increase the low teacher-pupil ratio in Latvia and decrease school infrastructure. In the health 
Page  3
sector, structural reforms delivering fiscal adjustment aim to improve administrate capacity and 
transparency, and to rationalize the provision of care. Primary health care services are being 
protected and reforms are aimed at substituting expensive inpatient services to the extent 
possible through increased use of outpatient surgery and alternatives to overnight hospital stays. 
The high inpatient costs are being tackled by reducing the number of hospital beds and making 
more effective use of co-payments to manage demand for services. The aim is not solely to 
increase efficiency, but to improve health outcomes through better primary care. The operation 
would also support the government goal to restore the contribution rate for second pillar pensions 
to 6 percent by January 1, 2013. With the 2010 Public Expenditure Review, the World Bank has 
also engaged with government on other important structural reforms, including increasing the 
retirement age for pensions, the development of training-based labor market programs and a 
move to a voucher scheme for training, and the formulation of a health sector strategy.  
 
IV. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
6. 
Latvia graduated from Bank financing in 2007
.
The global financial crisis led to an 
exceptional request by the government of Latvia for renewed access to World Bank lending 
resources. The proposed operation is consistent w
ith the Bank’s Articles of Agreement. Pursuant 
to Article III, Section 4 (ii), the Bank may make loans to any member country, subject to Board 
approval, if “[it] 
is satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions the borrower would be 
unable otherwise to obtain the loan under conditions which in the opinion of the Bank are 
reasonable for the borrower
.”
The crisis has exposed underlying macro-vulnerabilities, and the 
deep economic contraction that followed left Latvia with significant borrowing needs and 
constrained access to external financing on reasonable terms. The World Bank delivered 
exceptional support to Latvia through special development policy lending support. To 
accompany this, a Public Expenditure Review was conducted jointly with the IMF in 2007, and a 
follow-up Public Expenditure Review was conducted as part of a World Bank program of 
technical assistance in 2010. There are two related World Bank operations: the Financial Sector 
Development Policy Loan approved on September 22, 2009 and First Safety Net and Social 
Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (SDPL 1) approved on March 4, 2010. The proposed 
operation is the final operation under the SDPL support program and would complete World 
Bank crisis lending activities in Latvia. 
V. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
142.08 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total 142.08 
 
Page  4
VI. Tranches
 (if applicable)
 
($m.) 
First Tranche 
142.08 
Total 142.08 
 
VII. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
7. 
In putting in place the ESSNS, procedures and adequate financing were 
incorporated to allow close monitoring of its implementation and evaluation of its impact. 
On monitoring, the government regularly monitors around 35 indicators pertaining to the ESSNS 
and publishes the information on the internet.
1
Baseline and updated data are provided by the 
respective specialized agencies for the pertinent functions and tracked according to the indicators 
and outcome measures as shown in the Monitoring and Results Framework (see Annex 8). 
8. 
The State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia
 
(SAO) has evaluated the 
government’s performance in implementing the ESSNS supported by the proposed loan.
 
The State Audit Office reports independently to Parliament and is a key institution for public 
sector accountability. The audit of the ESSNS has been has been disseminated by the State Audit 
Office, including being made publicly-available on the internet. The audit made extensive use of 
country databases and information to cross-check the implementation of the ESSNS at the 
national and municipal level against the stated policies and aims of the program. The audit came 
up with a number of recommendations for improving control and compliance for the 
implementation
 
of
the ESSNS strategy, and the relevant government agencies have agreed to an 
Action Plan to put in place these recommendations by October 2011 (see Annex 5 for the action 
plan). The audit and its use by the government represent an innovative use of country systems by 
the government of Latvia to monitor and evaluate a Bank-supported program, and to use the 
results to improve implementation and results. Given the complex nature of structural reforms 
and emergency assistance supported by the program of development policy lending, it would 
have been difficult for the Bank team to conduct such a comprehensive and thorough evaluation, 
and hence, the SDPL series has benefitted much from the institutional set-up for conducting 
audits of government programs in Latvia. 
VIII. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
9. 
Risks
.
Risks to the proposed operation are moderate to high. The risks are related to the 
economy, political and social support for the ongoing fiscal adjustment program, and possible 
reversal of the social sector
 structural reform program supported by the World Bank’s SDPL 
loan series. Economic risks are moderate. Overall, the macroeconomic outlook has notably 
improved since the previous World Bank loan (SDPL 1) was approved and risks have 
diminished. Growth performed better than expected in 2010, as did the fiscal outturn. Political 
1
The Ministry of Regional Development and Local Government had the initial responsibility for monitoring 
implementation of the ESSNS, and for submitting regular reports to the Cabinet of Ministers on progress. This 
responsibility shifted to the Ministry of Welfare following a restructuring of government ministries on January 1, 
2011.
 
Page  5
risks remain moderate to high, and relate to the challenge of maintaining the support of the 
governing coalition and society at large for the ongoing fiscal stabilization program. Despite the 
difficult economic conditions that the population has faced, social stability has endured.  
10. 
The government has reiterated its commitment to the structural reform program and 
implementation risks are moderate in 2011. With regard to the structural reform agenda, there 
has been much progress in the implementation of reforms by the Ministry of Health and Ministry 
of Education and Science. There is a risk that there may be a reversal of the structural reform 
program if fiscal pressures ease and political pressures for increasing schools/hospital 
infrastructure and staffing mount. On education, a court case has been initiated to challenge the 
constitutionality of the addition of social considerations to the criteria for awarding state support 
to students in higher education. This has the potential to reverse the reform supported by SDPL 
1. Regarding pensions, the government has reiterated its commitment to preserving the 
sustainability of the three pillars of the pension system and to restoring contributions to the 
second pillar to 6 percent of gross salaries by 2013, provided that the budgetary situation 
improves in line with forecasts. There is, however, a risk that a more gradual restoration in the 
second pillar pension contributions may occur and that the 6 percent rate may not be put in place 
by 2013. 
11. 
Mitigation of Risks
.
The SDPL program will help to mitigate the economic and social 
risks of the stabilization program. The proposed SDPL 2 facilitates the fiscal reforms in the 
social sectors. The technical assistance program that has accompanied the SDPL program has 
supported the fiscal stabilization program. In supporting the implementation of the ESSNS, the 
SDPL program lowers the social costs inflicted by the rapid fiscal adjustment and sector 
structural reforms. In supporting the monitoring and making public the results of the ESSNS
—
including the use of country systems to audit, evaluate and feed into program re-design—the 
SDPL supports greater governance and accountability.  
IX. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
12. 
The policies supported by the SDPL program are expected to have a significant 
positive social impact, particularly by mitigating the adverse effects of the economic crisis 
for the poorer groups in society
.
The measures in the program have been designed to protect 
the funding of basic needs and services for low income households and to boost expenditure on 
programs targeted to people affected by the crisis.  
13. 
The specific policies supported by the proposed development policy loan are not 
likely to have significant effects on Latvia’s environment, forests, and other natural 
resources
.
Unanticipated and unintended risks of adverse effects to the environment and natural 
resources are likely to be minor. Latvia has adequate environmental 
controls in place. Latvia’s 
environmental legislation and regulation is reinforced by EU environmental directives, including 
the EU’s guidelines on adoption of environmental assessments at the planning and programming 
level (June 2001) and the EU’s Environmental Liabilities Directive setting out liability for 
damage to properties and natural resources (April 2007).   
 
Page  6
X. Contact 
point 
 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Emily Sinnott 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4960 
Email: esinnott@worldbank.org 
 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Agnese Timefejeva 
Title: Deputy Director, International Financial Policy Department, Ministry of Finance, Latvia 
Tel: (371-6) 708-3886 
Fax: (371-6) 708-3898 
Email: Agnese.Timefejeva@fm.gov.lv 
 
XI. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
