Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
 
CONCEPT STAGE
 
<Date>  
Report No.:   AB6362         
(The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed) 
 
Operation Name 
Latvia Second Safety Net and Social Sector Reform Program 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Country 
Latvia 
Sector 
General education sector (30%); Health (30%); Other social 
services (30%); General public administration sector (10%) 
Operation ID 
P121796 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
1
Smilsu Street 
Riga 
Latvia 
LV-1919 
Tel: (371-6) 708-3886 
Fax: (371-6) 708-3898 
Date PID Prepared 
February 14, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 24, 2011 
Concept Review Decision 
Following the concept review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation. 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The size and speed of fiscal adjustment and structural reforms required to fulfill the 
Maastricht criteria entail heavy social costs
.
In the face of a sharp collapse in output brought on 
by the end of the externally-financed domestic demand boom, Latvia opted for a stabilization 
program that aimed at maintaining its currency peg to the euro, while embarking on an internal 
devaluation involving an unprecedented fiscal and nominal wage adjustment, supported by 
financial and structural reforms. The Latvian Government’s aim is to exit the stabilization 
program with Euro adoption by reaching the Maastricht criteria in 2012. The size of the fiscal 
adjustment required to accomplish this (from 6.5 percent in 2010 to under 3 percent in 2012) 
would be difficult even in the non-recession environment. This greatly increases the risk of 
adverse impact on households. At the same time, the recent economic performance has been 
better than expected, and Latvia has returned to positive growth in the third quarter of 2010 for 
the first time since the onset of the economic downturn. Yet, unemployment rates are falling very 
slowly and remain high at 18 percent. Moreover, there appears to be a large disparity in 
employment opportunities depending on education levels, pointing to a possible problem of 
structural unemployment for the poorer socioeconomic groups coming out of the crisis.  
Page  2
The global financial crisis led to an exceptional request by the government of Latvia for 
renewed access to World Bank lending resources
.
The World Bank has provided assistance to 
Latvia through two parallel programs, one supporting reforms to strengthen the financial sector 
(EUR 200 million, fully disbursed on November 4, 2009), and the other providing support for an 
emergency safety net and social sector reform (EUR 100 million, fully disbursed on September 
27, 2010). The Special Development Policy Loan (SDPL2) would be the second and final 
operation in a programmatic series of loans to support safety net and social sector reforms in 
Latvia to mitigate the impact of fiscal consolidation.   
 
II. 
Proposed Objective(s) 
The SDPL2 continues support of the Safety Net and Social Sector Reform Program
.
The 
objectives of the operation are: (i) to protect vulnerable groups with emergency safety net support 
during the economic contraction; (ii) to mitigate the social costs of fiscal consolidation; and (iii) 
to ensure that structural reforms lay a foundation for medium-term improvements in the social 
sectors. The government is committed to implementing fiscal consolidation through sound, 
structural reforms. The most important measures that the government began to take in 2009 
include: (i) in the education sector, the introduction of “
funds follow the student”
 per-capita 
financing in the 2009 academic year; (ii) in the health sector, a reduction in the number of 
hospital beds with the aim of shifting the health care toward out-patient and hospital day care, and 
a
more effective use of copayments to control demand for services. Additionally, reforms have 
been passed that will increase the efficiency of social protection by eliminating overlapping 
benefits and improving the long-term financial sustainability of old-age pensions and other forms 
of social insurance. 
 
III. 
Preliminary Description 
The World Bank support program focuses on measures designed to mitigate the social 
impact of fiscal
 consolidation, and the implementation of the government’s Emergency 
Social Sector Net Strategy (ESSNS)
.
The strategy came into legal effect on October 1, 2009 and 
finances and coordinates the efforts of national and local government agencies to: (i) maintain 
pre-primary education and child development programs for 5 and 6 year old children; (ii) cover 
the costs of transporting students from communities where schools have closed to their new 
places of instruction; (iii) exempt needy households from health service co-payments; and (iv) 
subsidize their pharmaceutical costs; (v) sustain and improve general practitioner (GP) and 
primary health care (PHC) services and access; (vi) increase the coverage and pay-out period of 
unemployment insurance; and (vii) increase the coverage and amount of targeted social assistance 
benefits administered by local governments. For the unemployed who are not covered by 
unemployment insurance or other social support, the government has (viii) fortified the safety net 
by rapidly deploying a labor-intensive emergency public works program. 
 
Page  3
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The policies supported by the SDPL 2 have been designed to protect the funding of basic needs 
and services for low income segments of the population and to boost expenditure on programs 
targeted to people affected by the crisis. Based on simulations that examined the poverty and 
social impacts the proposed measures, World Bank staff concludes that the components of the 
ESSNS will mitigate the impacts of the crisis for poor and vulnerable people and that no adverse 
distributional impacts are likely.  
Social Protection
:
Increasing the eligibility threshold at which GMI is provided is intended to 
increase coverage and raise transfers to poor households. This is expected to lower the poverty 
impact of the crisis. Further, increasing incomes of unemployed people either through augmented 
unemployment benefits or the provision of public works
 
is expected to contribute to the reduction 
in aggregate poverty without having significant impact on incentives to rejoin the formal labor 
force (because the unemployment benefit top-up is low and because the public works stipend is 
lower than the minimum wage).   
Education
:
Measures included in the ESSNS are also likely to have a longer-term, positive social 
impact, particularly the protection of financing for pre-primary education for 5 and 6 year old 
children. The government’s decision in 2005 to make preschool education free and mandatory for 
five-and-six-year-old children was a positive development in terms of long-term learning 
outcomes. The program has had a fairly strong effect in equalizing preschool attendance across 
income groups. 
Health
:
The health sector measures included in the ESSNS are aimed at substantially lowering 
household financial vulnerability due to the cost of medical treatment, and encourage a widening 
of access to health care. By adding funding in the ESSNS package for an additional public health 
nurse, the government seeks to ameliorate the risk that health outcome will suffer following the 
closure of hospital beds and medical facilities, and demonstrate a commitment to the part of the 
health system that people will use regularly. Further, needy households are exempt from co-
payments, which lowers the burden of out-of-pocket payments substantially.
 
The measure is 
likely to eliminate variations across localities in assistance and creates an incentive for the poor to 
seek care. Finally, needy households continue to receive the care they need in health facilities, 
free of charge. The policy shift away from institutional care to home and day care for patients 
who suffer physical and mental disabilities directly benefits one of the poorest segments of the 
population. This element of the ESSNS allows the Ministry of Health to target new services to 
needy clients and to assure that the severely constrained resources for inpatient care are available 
for people who really need to be treated on an inpatient basis.   
Environment Aspects 
The specific policies supported by the proposed development policy loan are not likely to have 
significant effects on Latvia’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. Unanticipated 
and unintended risks of adverse effects to the environment and natural resources are likely to be 
minor. Latvia has adequate environmental controls in place. 
 
V. 
Tentative financing
 
{Automatically pulled from AUS} 
Page  4
Source: 
          ($m.) 
Borrower 
          
 
 
0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
 
 
135.95 
Borrower/Recipient 
IBRD 
Others (specify) 
Total 
          135.95 
 
 
 
VI. 
Contact point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Emily Sinnott 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4960 
Email: esinnott@worldbank.org 
Borrower 
Contact: Agnese Timefejeva 
Title: Deputy Director, International Financial Policy Department, Ministry of Finance, Latvia 
Tel: (371-6) 708-3886 
Fax: (371-6) 708-3898 
Email: Agnese.Timefejeva@fm.gov.lv 
 
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 548-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
