                                                           CONFORMED COPY




                                                       LOAN NUMBER 8058-LV




                    Loan Agreement

(Safety Net and Social Sector Reform Program Second Development Policy Loan)


                                  between


                          REPUBLIC OF LATVIA


                                    and


           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                      AND DEVELOPMENT




                            Dated June 17, 2011
                                                                     LOAN NUMBER 8058-LV

                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated June 17, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (“Borrower”)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ( “Bank”)
for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a)
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:

                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Euro (Euro 100,000,000), as
        such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%), of the
        Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty days after
        the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
        Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
        by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
        accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are May15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
                terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
                the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
                withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
                interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
                Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
                versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
                based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
                applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
                and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
                accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
                General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
                Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
        furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
        Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
                exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
                progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
                its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
                the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
                taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
                1 to this Agreement.

                        ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation has
        arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
        carried out.




                                                -2-
                     ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the Bank is
        satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
        with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.


                     ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Latvia
        Smilšu 1,
        Riga, LV-1919
        Republic of Latvia

        Facsimile:

        +371 67095503

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




                                               -3-
AGREED at Riga, Republic of Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.



                                        REPUBLIC OF LATVIA



                                        By /s/ Andris Vilks
                                                       Authorized Representative


                                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                        By /s/ Peter Harrold
                                                       Authorized Representative




                                              -4-
                                       SCHEDULE 1

                      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

       Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:

        1.   The Borrower, through the national and local government agencies, has been
             satisfactorily implementing the Emergency Social Safety Net Strategy as indicated
             by the maintenance of adequate budget financing in 2010 and 2011, and evidenced
             by regular performance monitoring reports submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers
             and publishing them on the web page of the Ministry of Welfare.

        2.   The Borrower, through the Auditor General, has conducted on October 28, 2010 an
             independent audit of the Cabinet of Minister’s performance in implementing the
             Emergency Social Safety Net Strategy.

        3.   The Borrower has enacted an amendment to the Law on the State Funded Pensions
             ("Grozîjumi Valsts fondçto pensiju likumâ" dated December 30, 2010 ("LV", 206
             (4398), 30.12.2010)) which increased the contribution rate to the funded pension
             pillar to 6 percent of a worker's salary starting from January 1, 2013.

        4.   The Borrower has allocated at least 50 percent of the cost of the guaranteed
             minimum income in the 2011 budget, with local governments funding the other 50
             percent.

        5.   The Borrower has strengthened primary health care services program in the 2010
             and 2011 budget by expanding the additional public health nurse or physician’s
             assistant program to primary care practices and developing a family physician
             advisory telephone service.

        6.   The Borrower, through the Cabinet of Minister’s Regulations #1046, dated
             December 19, 2006, as amended, has implemented the measures to: (a) strengthen
             the exemption program for health payments by eliminating all out-of-pocket health
             payments for visits, tests, and pharmaceuticals for patients classified as "needy";
             (b) provide a limited package of benefits for patients as their incomes exceed the
             "needy" line; and (c) provide outpatient psychiatric and home care for chronic
             diseases without cost to all population of Latvia.

        7.   The Borrower has allocated in the 2011 budget adequate financing for pre-primary
             education/child development programs for children starting from the age of 5 years
             old.

        8.   The Borrower has allocated in the 2011 budget adequate financing to cover the cost
             of transporting to replacement schools students whose schools have closed.




                                             -5-
Section II.    Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
        notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
        end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
        withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
        is set out in the table below:

                    Allocations                            Amount of the Loan
                                                                Allocated
                                                           (expressed in EUR)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                            100,000,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                         100,000,000

C.      Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
        the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
        satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the
        appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

E.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.     the withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
               account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

        2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the Loan into
               this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
               management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
        not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
        amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
        Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
        amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
        shall be cancelled.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.




                                              -6-
                                         SCHEDULE 2

                                     Amortization Schedule

1.    The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
      percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
      Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
      the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
      Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
      multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
      the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
      adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
      to which a Currency Conversion applies.

            Principal Payment Date                             Installment Share
                                                           (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15and November 15

      Beginning May 15, 2016                                            10%
      through November 15, 2020


2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
      Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
      Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

      (a)       To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
                Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
                as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

      (b)       Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
                each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
                determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
                fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
                table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ( “Original
                Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
                Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
                date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
                referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
                applies.

3.    (a)       Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
                Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
                amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
                outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
                withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
                with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.




                                               -7-
     (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
             time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
             on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
             paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
             such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
     Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
     Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
     Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
     the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
     to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
     the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
     relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
     Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.




                                             -8-
                                         APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
               or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group              Sub-group                Description of Item
                         112                                         Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                         Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                     tobacco refuse
                         122                                         Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                     (whether or not containing
                                                                     tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                         Radioactive and associated
                                                                     materials
                         667                                         Pearls, precious and
                                                                     semiprecious stones,
                                                                     unworked or worked
                         718                718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                     thereof; fuel elements
                                                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                                     for nuclear reactors
                         728                728.43                   Tobacco processing
                                                                     machinery
                         897                897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                     platinum group metals (except
                                                                     watches and watch cases) and
                                                                     goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                                                     wares (including set gems)
                         971                                         Gold, non-monetary
                                                                     (excluding gold ores and
                                                                     concentrates)

       (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;



                                              -9-
        (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
                prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
                the Borrower is a party;

        (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
                and

        (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
                coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
                recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
                having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
                such practices when they occur.

2.      “Emergency Social Safety Net Strategy” means the plan setting forth the emergency
        safety net measures to be implemented to counter adverse social effects resulting from
        the financial and economic crisis in the world and Latvia, and the structural reforms in
        the social sectors.

3.       “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications
        set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.      “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
        growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated April 27, 2011 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s
        commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
        support of the Program during its execution.

5.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
        entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 (Interest) is deleted in its entirety and the definitions in the
        Appendix of “Default Interest Rate”, “Default LIBOR” and “Default Variable Rate” are
        all deleted in their entirety and the remaining definitions renumbered accordingly.

4.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article V are renumbered accordingly.

                                                -10-
5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
     relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
             receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two
             years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
             representatives to examine such records.”

7.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

             (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
             Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and
             in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
             Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
             obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
             of the Loan.

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:

                     “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
                     support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
                     pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (b)     The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)     The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:

                     “Fixed Spread” means two percent (2%) per annum; provided, that upon
                     a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
                     Balance pursuant to Section 4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted
                     on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion
                     Guidelines.

     (d)     The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified
             to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General
             Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):



                                            -11-
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”




                   -12-
