                            Document of
                        The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR0000123




  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (EXIM-03830 IBRD-41170)




                              ON A

                    LOAN THE AMOUNT OF
                       US$225.24 MILLION

                                TO

                        Argentine Republic

                              FOR A

                FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT

                        December 06, 2006




LCSFW Cluster
WB Office: Buenos Aires-Southern Cone
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 12/29/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = Pesos
                                  Pesos 1.00 = US$ 0.328
                                   US$ 1.00 = Pesos 3.05


                                       Fiscal Year
                                 January 1 - December 31




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
GOA   Government of Argentina
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
JEXIM Export-Import Bank of Japan, now called JBIC
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
PPI   Proyecto de Prevención de Inundaciones (The Flood Prevention Project)
      Proyecto de Rehabilitación por la Emergencia de las Inundaciones (The Flood
PREI
      Rehabilitation Project)
QSA   Quality of Supervision Assessment
      Secretaría de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias (Secretariat for Fin. Ass. to
SAFP
      Provinces)
SAR   Staff Appraissal Report
      Subunidad Central de Coordinación para la Emergencia (Central Subunit for Emergency
SUCCE
      Coordination)
      Subunidad Provincial de Coordinación para la Emergencia (Provincial Subunit for
SUPCE
      Emerg. Coordination)
TA    Technical Assistance
      Unidad Coordinadora de Programas con Financiamiento Externo (Coord. Unit for Prog.
UCPFE
      w/Int. Financing)




         Vice President: Pamela Cox

       Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg

        Sector Manager: John Henry Stein

    Project Team Leader: Maryse D. Gautier

                                                     Argentina
                                     AR FLOOD PROTECTION




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 17
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 20
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 21
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 28
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 34
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 37
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 40
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 41
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 44
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 45
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 46
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 47
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 48
13.1 Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency
Component.................................................................................................................... 48
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 61

1. Basic Information

Country:                Argentina              Project Name:           AR FLOOD
                                                                       PROTECTION

Project ID:             P006052                L/C/TF Number(s):       EXIM-03830,IBRD-
                                                                       41170
ICR Date:               01/18/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:               GOVT OF
                                                                       ARGENTINA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 200.0M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 196.5M

Environmental Category:A
Implementing Agencies

UCP&PFE-SUCCE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 12/16/1993            Effectiveness:     10/21/1997        10/21/1997
Appraisal:         01/15/1996         Restructuring(s):                    10/16/2002
Approval:          12/11/1996         Mid-term Review:                     05/24/2001
                                      Closing:           06/30/2002        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  Yes            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            1                3
Sub-national government administration                       1                4
Other social services                                        4
Flood protection                                            85              81
Housing construction                                         9              12
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                     Primary          Primary
Natural disaster management                    Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement             Secondary        Secondary
Water resource management                      Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                 At ICR        At Approval

Vice President:                               Pamela Cox       Shahid Javed
                                                               Burki

Country Director:                             Axel van         Gobind T.
                                              Trotsenburg      Nankani
Sector Manager:                               John Henry Stein Asif Faiz

Project Team Leader:                          Maryse D. GautierArmando Ribeiro
                                                               Araujo

ICR Team Leader:                              Miguel Vargas-
                                              Ramirez
ICR Primary Author:                           Klas B. Ringskog




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The need for the proposed project was identified during the preparation of the Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR), when the Government and the Bank agreed on
improving the afflicted provinces' long-term preparedness to deal with severe flooding
alongside an immediate rehabilitation operation. Accordingly, the proposed project was
prepared during the implementation of the Rehabilitation Project and the necessary
studies were funded under Loan 3521-AR and from a Japanese Grant.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)at the time of Project approval (discussed
at the Board on May 4, 1995, and an update discussed on April 25, 1996) aimed to: (a)
consolidate macro reforms by extending the adjustment process to the provinces; (b)
rebuild the infrastructure base; and (c) strengthen public institutions (especially those for
social services). The proposed project is fully supportive of these CAS objectives. It was
designed to speed-up Government actions to remedy the adverse impact of harmful
practices and patterns in the use of natural resources, improve the infrastructure base in
flood-prone areas, and further enhance the natural resource base on which future growth
depends. This is especially important in the flood-affected areas because of their
economic significance and the sizeable populations --in addition to important health and
environmental implications. Further, the experience gained in implementation of the
Flood Rehabilitation Project made the Bank uniquely qualified, in the Government's
view, to guide a more comprehensive flood protection effort. This experience was
especially relevant due to the limited administrative capacity of the Government in this
field. In addition, the investments required were unlikely to be mobilized from private
sector sources.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project would help improve the security of economic assets and persons living in
flood-prone areas by constructing defense facilities to reduce future losses due to floods,
and by strengthening national and provincial institutions and systems for dealing with
future floods. The specific objectives would be to enhance provincial capacity to deal
with periodic flooding by upgrading their flood preparedness and mitigation systems, as
well as strengthening coordination within the Basin. The aim was to provide technically
sound and cost-effective flood protection coverage of the most important economic areas,
and to develop satisfactory institutional mechanisms to sustain them.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

Following the December 2001 macroeconomic crisis that deeply affected Argentina, the


                                              3

Loan Agreement was formally amended by a letter dated October 16, 2002, from the
Bank Country Director, to the Minister of the Economy. The project objectives were
amended to: (a) improve the physical and institutional flood protection capabilities
within the Participating Provinces; and (b) improve maternal and child health through the
delivery of quality services; and to strengthen disease surveillance and control activities;
all for purposes of reducing the acute risk of disease in the Borrower's territory. With a
rapid disbursement of funds for maternal and child health programs, the amendments did
not affect the Flood Protection project in other ways than through reducing its level of
funding. The ICR will concentrate on the Flood Protection project and will not address
the issue of the outcome, sustainability and institutional development impact of the
components on maternal and child health care; the impacts of the Health sector
component of the Emergency Program (Health Emergency Program-HEP) are addressed
under a separate ICR section prepared as part of the Higher Education Reform Project
(P034091) on December 9, 2004 (Annex 8, Report No. 26914), included in Annex 13.1

Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome is satisfactory including the
Emergency project which has an overall satisfactory rating (separate ICR summarized in
Additional Annex 13.1); the Bank performance rating is satisfactory, and the borrower
performance rating is also satisfactory. The assessment of Risk to Development
Outcome is rated as moderate.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The primary beneficiaries are the persons living in flood-prone areas. Secondary
beneficiaries include inhabitants of the cities in riverine areas that would have their assets
protected against floods and that were targeted for the environmental programs and
benefited from the land use laws, environmental education, contingency
plans, vulnerability maps and other non-structural measures.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised two main parts with the following sub-components (wording from
Loan Agreement):
Part A: Structural measures
          Carrying out of Subprojects to, without controlling the flow of rivers, protect
economically dynamic and flood-prone areas within flood plains in the Participating
Provinces against the effects of floods; (SAR-estimated cost US$ 277.5 million of which
US$ 263.6 million for civil works and US$ 13.9 million for goods, or 75.9 % of Total
Base Cost)

Part B: Non-structural measures (SAR-estimated cost of Part B US$ 87.9 million, or
24.1% of Total Base Cost).




                                              4

1.      Provision of technical assistance and material support to establish and/or
strengthen each Participating Province's capacity to deal with flood problems through: (a)
the preparation and issuance of plans and regulations to rationalize land usage in flood-
prone areas; (b) the creation of a unit within each Participating Province's public
administration with responsibility for coordinating civil defense, the flood warning
system, hydraulic works consultation, facilities maintenance and environmental
safeguard activities with respect to flood within said Participating Province; and (c) the
operation of SUPCEs (SAR-estimated cost US$ 2.5 million, or 0.7% of Total Base Cost).

2.      Construction, within Participating Province flood-prone areas for which works
under part A of the Project would not be constructed, of shelters to protect populations
affected by floods (which shelters would be usable for other communal activities in the
absence of a flood emergency), as well as design of improved civil defense arrangements
in each Participating Province so as to deal more effectively with flood emergencies
(SAR-estimated cost US$ 12.4 million, or 3.4% of Total Base Cost).

3.      Provision of materials for construction by affected residents of flood-resistant
housing in Participating Province flood-prone areas for which works under Part A of the
Project would not be constructed (SAR-estimated cost US$ 31.0 million, or 8.5% of
Total Base Cost).

4.      Installation of a flood-warning system consisting of: (a) a network of river flow
gauging stations throughout the Participating Provinces; (b) a satellite link to transmit
information collected by such gauging stations to a central data bank; (c) computer links
allowing Participating Provinces non-restricted access to such central data bank; and (d)
improved flood forecasting software (SAR-estimated cost US$ 3.8 million, or 1.0% of
Total Base Cost).

5.      Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of, Participating
Provinces to: (a) assist in the design of flood protection works and in the supervision of
their construction; (b) design and implement improved civil defense and emergency
procedures to be used during flood; (c) support social assistance and community
mobilization efforts in connection with Part B.3 of the Project (flood-resistant housing);
and (d) make use of the flood warning system installed under Part B.4 of the Project
(SAR-estimated cost of sub-items 5 and 6 US$ 34.7 million, or 9.5% of Total Base Cost).

6.      Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of, the Borrower to: (a)
enable users to make use of the flood warning system installed under Part B.4 of the
Project; and (b) carry out Project supervision activities, including auditing services when
necessary (SAR-estimated cost of sub-items 5 and 6, US$ 34.7 million, or 9.5% of Total
Base Cost).

7.       Carrying out of environmental programs consisting of: (a) environmental
education and public awareness campaigns in communities benefiting from works under
Part A of the Project; (b) environmental management and monitoring capacity
strengthening actions with respect to provincial, municipal and community agencies or



                                              5

groups affected by or involved in Project implementation of environmental activities; (c)
improvement of baseline knowledge with respect to the ecology and dynamics of riverine
and flood plain ecosystems within areas covered by the Project; and (d) improvement in
the protection and management of wetlands within areas covered by the Project (SAR-
estimated cost US$ 3.6 million, or 1.0% of Total Base Cost).




6.6 Revised Components

Following the December 2001 macroeconomic crisis the Loan Agreement was amended
formally by Bank communication dated October 16, 2002 to the Minister of the
Economy. Among other amendments, US$ 35.0 million was taken from the unallocated
portion of the Flood Protection loan 4117-AR and two new components Part C :
Emergency Drugs and supplies, and Part D: Strengthening of Disease Control were
introduced, for which a separate ICR has been issued. Due to Argentina's failure to
service debt orderly, the balance of the Japanese funding was canceled and the project
therefore lost US$ 91.3 million of Japanese funding. In order to compensate for the loss,
the Bank disbursement percentages were increased for civil works and goods under Parts
A and B from 36% to 72% and from 36% to 100%, respectively. The description of the
original (flood control) components A and B were left largely unchanged with the
following cost allocation (from the SAR and from Project Status Reports) after the
addition of two new Parts C and D that were unrelated to the flood control objectives.




          Loan Proceeds                     At SAR                 At ICR (Actual)
                                            (US$ million)          (US$ million)
          Civil Works (Structural measures  116.3                  95
          and shelters)
          Goods                             6.4                    6.4
          Construction Materials (Housing   31.8                   26.8
          component)
          Early flood warning system        4                      0.125
          Technical Assistance              41.5                   36.5
          Project implementation (technical --                     12
          assistance Part C: Emergency
          Drugs and Supplies
          Part D: Strengthening of Disease  --                     23
          Control
          Total Loan                        200                    200


6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The Early Warning System was not implemented partly as a consequence of the
US$35M reassignment to the Health Emergency Component. The call for bids was


                                              6

suspended on mid 2003 and the component was officially dropped by the Government in
September 2004, and this decision was ratified by the Bank on May 2005. The decision
about this component was jointly agreed by both the Borrower and the Bank given the
extenuating circumstances, and as such would not be influencing the outcome ratings.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The Flood Protection Project (PPI, the Spanish acronym) followed on the Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR) (PREI, the Spanish acronym) that had been
approved in September 1992 and completed in November 1997. The PREI created the
framework for subsequent flood control projects, including PPI. Its outcome was rated
Satisfactory and its Sustainability Likely. The PPI was identified in December 1993,
roughly one year after the PREI had been approved, and attempted to scale up and
improve on the PREI design. The PPI was approved in December 1996 at which time the
PREI had been substantially completed. Many of the lessons identified in the PREI
Implementation Completion Report were relevant for the design of the PPI. The PREI
chief lessons learnt were: (1) "Physical rehabilitation alone is not sufficient to sustain
long-term benefits, as well as provide an effective level of protection. Even in emergency
projects, funding should be allocated for the development of non-structural measures that
establish the capacity to manage future emergencies at provincial and local levels." (2)
"The successes (of PREI) can be replicated and further improved by considering the
following principles; (i) using simple and easy investments; (ii) using a flexible project
design;(iii) ensuring participation of interested provinces with adequate counterpart
financing; (iv) maintaining competent local executing units; (v) enabling flexibility to
shift funds among eligible provinces; and (vi) preparing a well formulated but simple
project operation's manual; (3) The institutional setup of the SUCCE-SUPCE framework
was crucial to the project's implementation; and (4) Restricting development in
floodplains and preserving the ecosystem are better achieved and supported through the
use of fiscal incentives, effective land use and management practices, and sound
governmental policies and programs aimed at avoiding further environmental
degradation. These approaches to risk prevention and mitigation result in a more cost-
effective project. The PPI project did incorporate all the lessons in the design and
allocated three fourths of the loan proceeds to structural measures and one fourth to non-
structural measures. It also left successful implementation arrangements intact.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Two major events outside the control of the government had a significant impact on
Project implementation. The Flood of 1998 (October 1997 to June 1998) caused the
Federal and Provincial Government's efforts to concentrate on the management of the
emergency and significantly reduced the implementation pace of the PPI in that period.



                                                7

At that particular time, the SUCCE found itself preparing the designs for the works
under the PPI, preparing the El Nino Emergency Project (4273-AR) and implementing
emergency works with funds diverted from a World Bank Provincial
Development Project (3280-AR) with virtually the same personnel.

However, the defining event during the course of project implementation was the
macroeconomic meltdown that culminated in December 2001 with the climatic moment
where Argentina defaulted on its debt service. The crisis had a severe impact on the PPI.
First, the JBIC had to stop disbursement based on the Loan Agreement due to successive
failures of the debt service and the PPI had to forego US$ 91.3 million in attractive long-
term financing. Second, US$ 35 million of the World Bank PPI financing was redirected
to child and maternal health programs which reduced the scope of possible flood control
works. Third, the peso's devaluation in January 2002, caused severe delays in the
execution of works and services and slowed down project implementation considerably.
It took five interim presidents and two months for the political situation to stabilize, and
much longer for the peso to settle to its present value (three to one dollar). In light of the
uncertainty around the peso's worth and the instability of the economic situation amid all
sort of inflationary predictions, most protection and rehabilitation works were stopped for
more than a year, and the same happened to those works and contracts that had been
awarded before the devaluation. All ongoing contracts had to be recalculated at the new
pesos value, as happened with all other Bank projects in Argentina . This is usually done
using a formula for price re-determination that takes into account inflation and other risks
and which needs to be agreed upon by the government and the Bank. The formula was
only issued by December 2002, and it took until June 2003 for it to be applied
satisfactorily due to discussions around how to make it fully operational (a total of 15
months). Furthermore, the crisis also weakened the capacity of the provinces to
contribute to the PPI.

As a result, the project was downgraded in May 2003 by a new task management team.
The project was not downgraded earlier due to the expectation of a prompt recovery by
the previous Bank team, but two of the deciding factors for the downgrade were the
paralisis of the construction industry and the inability of the Provinces to contribute with
their counterpart due to the financial crisis. The implementation of an Action Plan,
agreed upon on December 2003 between the Government and the Bank, allowed the
upgrading of the project on March 2004, when disbursement was maintained at a
satisfactory pace and counterpart funding resumed.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

This project was prepared over 10 years ago, where no major emphasis was placed in the
M&E System in the Project Documents. Unlike the current Project Appraisal Document
format, used to prepare projects currently, the SAR format did not include an exclusive
Annex for M&E issues, but combined it with the Auditing requirement. Emphasis was
placed on planning and timely delivery of key actions, as evidenced by the detailed
Implementation Plan included in the SAR. For M&E Design, the SAR identifies three
types of monitoring indicators during appraisal included in the Project Monitoring and



                                               8

Auditing plan in the SAR Annex 12. Input indicators included Time-table of works, loan
disbursement and local counterpart funding; Output indicators comprised contract cost,
contract completion date performance, number of houses constructed and number of
shelter constructed; Outcome/Impact indicators included flood defense works
effectiveness, population affected by floods, population attended by the housing
program and population attended by shelters. Input indicators were reported and
followed in both Aide Memoires and update reports, on the contrary, output indicators
were less frequently reported. Input indicators are captured by many monitoring tools -
such as the WB portal- and are linked to disbursements that are subject to many auditing
controls, and as such, are easy to follow-up.

In relation to the Outcome/Impact indicators, the Flood Defense Works Effectiveness
(FDWE) indicator proposed under the SAR is difficult to measure. This indicator,
measured "by comparing the performance of the constructed defenses during the annual
flood period of the rivers versus the forecast performance", assumed incorrectly that
there would be documented forecast performance reports for each sub-project and that
annual measurements were to be taken every year. The FDWE and the population
affected by floods -as second outcome indicator- assumed that recurrent flood events
have comparable magnitude, but hydrologically they can vary considerably from one
year to the next. Thus, a very large event -much larger than the 1992 flood- could have
affected much more population- without necessarily indicating a flawed design or lack of
effectiveness of the flood defense works. Beside, this indicator depends on a major event
occurring -something of high unpredictability- to test the effectiveness of the works. As
for the outcome indicators registering population benefited by shelters and houses, they
do not provide additional information when compared to the output indicators reporting
number of shelters and houses constructed, since the former are calculated by just
multiplying the number of facilities times the estimated user per facility.

For M&E implementation, there was not a data quality control neither by the Project
Implementation Unit nor by the Bank Supervision Team. Reporting depended on
information from the provinces, and it would have been impractical for the Bank
Supervision Team to undertake quality-control tasks if they were not incorporated in a
systematic manner during project design. Additionally, there were not specific revision
of the housing and shelter targets on the light of the reduced funding and the two project
extensions. There is also no evidence on efforts to producing specific studies or reports to
compile some of the proposed indicators.

This poor M&E implementation and utilization was confirmed by the Quality and
Supervision Assessment (undertaken by the Quality Assurance Group- QAG) on
September 2002. According to the Assessment, "information provided does not permit
the M&E system envisaged in the SAR to be carried out...Nor do the borrower's
progress reports on file make reference to M&E, providing no evidence that the borrower
had the system in place in time for project implementation. The PSR does not provide
any information on actual results (i.e. outputs) from an M&E perspective."

The data collected on the specified indicators did not contribute to the reallocation of



                                             9

funds -for example, there are not documented reallocations between provinces due to
different project performance levels. The project restructuring followed country macro-
economic concerns outside the project scope environment.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

No major issues arose by implementation of safeguards. There were no significant
deviation or waivers from the Bank social and fiduciary safeguards. The Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA)undertaken by QAG (Quality Assurance Group) on
September, 2002 confirmed that no issues were identified with social and environmental
safeguards compliance. In this respect, it is worth mentioning two examples of good
practice. One is the social participation for maintenance of the works, for example in the
localities of Tortugas and Villa Eloisa in the Province of Santa Fe. The community
involvement has allowed to keep participatory control over the maintenance of the small
works. Another example is the cultural property rescue in the Province of Misiones,
where a museum exhibiting the rescued objects from some of the works has been opened.

Legal and Procurement Aspects the QSA rates the supervison highly satisfactory and
satisfactory respectively.

However, regarding fiduciary aspects, the QSA identifies Financial Management as an
area for improvement, where the FM Specialist could have brought more clear advise to
the TTL and supervision could have been stronger, particularly regarding the very large
"exchange differences". Notwithstanding this concerns at QSA time, the project
complied with the auditing requirements and was finalized with a satisfactory rating
regarding financial issues.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The built structures constructed will generally be operated by either the provincial
agencies in charge of hydraulic works or municipalities. The exact dependencies that
were used for project implementation and that are likely to be used for project operation
and maintenance are shown in the table below :


 Participating Province           SUPCE Affiliation to:           Likely project operation
 Buenos Aires                     Dirección General de             Municipalities or the Dirección
                                  Administración del Ministerio de Provincial de Hidráulica y
                                  Economía de la Provincia         Saneamiento
 Chaco                            Administración Provincial del    APA
                                  Agua (APA) within Secretaría de
                                  Transportes, Obras y Servicios
                                  Públicos
 Corrientes                       Unidad Ejecutora Provincial      Probably municipalities where



                                                10

                                 within the Ministerio de         the structural works are located
                                 Hacienda y Finanzas
 Entre Ríos                      Unidad Ejecutora Provincial      The future Autoridad Provincial
                                 within the Gobernación           del Agua or municipalities
                                 Provincial
 Formosa                         Unidad Central de                Dirección Provincial de
                                 Administración de Proyectos del  Hidráulica or individual
                                 Ministerio de Economía de la     municipalities
                                 Provincia
 Misiones                        Unidad Central de                Provincial water resources
                                 Administración in the Secretaría authority
                                 de Estado General y de
                                 Coordinación
 Santa Fe                        Unidad Ejecutora Provincial      Dirección Provincial de Obras
                                 within the Subsecretaría de      Hidráulicas (DPOH)
                                 Proyectos de Inversión y
                                 Financiamiento Externo

A federal government system entails different and autonomous arrangements for the
institutional settings for the operation and maintenance of the works. The emerging
picture is one of diverse project implementation arrangements where the receiving
institution (in charge of Operation and Maintenance) had a limited participation during
the construction cycle, with the exception of Chaco where APA been involved from the
beginning. Thus, provinces have not prepared systematically for the operations and
maintenance stage, with some cases with no clarity on staffing or with the earmarking of
funding. The long-standing use of the works built depend on a series of interactions of
complex social, institutional, financial and political interactions. The failure to have a
prepared financial plan or to have made adequate budget provisions raises some
questions as to the sustainability of the works constructed: a 2003 site visit to the Obra
de Control de Río Negro en Laguna Blanca (the most important work financed under the
PREI) in the Chaco Province showed up deficient maintenance. A follow-on project -
the Urban Flood Prevention and Drainage Program- approved by the Bank's Board on
June 2006 emphasizes the need to have upfront O&M arrangements and require an O&M
plan to be included in the subsidiary agreements with the beneficiary Provinces.




8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project outcome is rated on the basis of its relevance, its efficacy in achieving the
objectives and completing the components, and its efficiency, either measured by its
economic rate of return, or by alternative measures such as cost efficiency. As for
relevance the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) 2006-2008 that has been
discussed at the Bank Board on June 6, 2006 has as an overall objective to seek
alternatives to build a medium-term investment partnership to support the transition from
crisis recovery to sustained growth with continued poverty reduction and improved
equity. The CAS aims to (a) sustain growth with equity; (b) social inclusion; and (c)


                                                11

improve governance. The project was supportive of the three CAS goals as detailed: (a)
the Project protected valuable assets in Argentine flood plains enabling to keep
contributing for the economic growth, (b) the Housing sub-component fostered inclusion
of the most flood-vulnerable population; and (c) the project required each participating
province to repay the loan proceeds to the Borrower (the Argentine Republic) including
assuming the foreign exchange risk. Such provincial payment obligations were secured
by each province's co-participation funds, contributing to governance at the Provincial
level. Through these arrangements the Provinces were made aware of the full cost of the
loan financing and the risks of moral hazard were presumably minimized; (i) by building
structures to protect against floods; and (ii) by investing in shelters and housing to
relocate on a voluntary basis and provide public and social services to economically
disadvantaged population.
Relating to the relevance of the Institutional Design, the emphasis at project design time
was to count on strong Project Implementation Units able to carry out the proposed
works. However, the development trend is to phase out such PIUs and to build such
implementation capacity within the regular government institutions.
The project design entailed for the design and promotion of local legislation that would
reduce vulnerability to flood damage, thus mainstreaming lessons learned and good
practices into the provincial and municipal laws.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project achievements should be measured against the specific SAR objectives: " to
enhance provincial capacity to deal with periodic flooding by upgrading their flood
preparedness and mitigation systems, as well as strengthening coordination within the
Basin." This objective was achieved since each of the Participating Provinces (Formosa,
Misiones, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Rios, Santa Fe, and Buenos Aires) undoubtedly
enhanced their capacities through a series of structural and non-structural measures.
However, the degree of enhancement is better measured by the performance of each
component and will be discussed under Annex 4. As a consequence, the "achievement of
objectives" rating requires a discussion of each of the components.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The economic analysis was computed for the Works subprojects (the largest component
in the project) using and updating the information available on the economic analysis
computed before the implementation of the project. Unfortunately, no ex-ante
information was available for the Shelter and Housing sub-components to allow for a
similar analysis.

In order to perform this exercise, the following steps were followed: (i) matching the



                                                12

subprojects that were evaluated in the ex-ante subprojects and that were actually
executed by the Argentina Flood Protection Project, (ii) describing which projects were
completed and the percentage executed, (iii) updating the costs and benefits of each
subproject matched and adjust them to capture the actual part executed, (iv) re-estimating
the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for each subproject. (v) compute the EIRR
for the whole project and (vi) compare the economic rates of return for the subprojects
with the ex-ante estimates.

According to the revised economic analysis 15 out of 22 subprojects presented EIRRs
even higher than the ones estimated at appraisal and two are approximately equal. From
the five subprojects that performed worse than predicted, four of them (Zarate and
Campana and San Pedro in Buenos Aires; Sistema Setubal in Santa Fe and Concepcion
del Uruguay in Entre Rios) have EIRRs that are below the threshold of 12%. However,
these five sub-projects represent 16% of the actual costs analyzed in the sample.

Overall the project has a EIRR of 21.81% (for the subprojects included in this sample)
and this value is only slightly lower than the value predicted previously (23.21%) for the
same sample. An overall EIRR of 21.81 is satisfactory since it is still higher than the
threshold of 12%. This result is not surprising since the subprojects actually implemented
were chosen among those with higher predicted EIRR, as agreed with the Bank at
appraisal.


8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

Relevance: The project outcomes continue to be highly relevant for the protection of
lives and assets in Argentine's fertile floodplains. The new Urban Flood Prevention and
Drainage Project prepared with the Bank attests to this continuous priority. The ICR rates
the relevance of the PPI as satisfactory.
Achievement of PDOs: The estimated population whose lives and assets were protected
by the flood works is about four million, over an area of about 236,000 sq. km., roughly
the size of whole country of Uganda. In terms of the outcome (more detailed on Annex
4), the ICR concludes that of the eight components of the PPI, one component (B3 -
Housing Sub-Component) is rated "highly-satisfactory", four components (A, Structural
Measures; B6, Technical Assistance for Supervision; and B7, Environmental Programs)
are rated "satisfactory" and three (B1, Technical Assistance to Provinces; B2,
Shelters; and B5, Technical Assistance for some non-structural measures) are rated
"marginally satisfactory", with a subcomponent (B4, flood-warning system ) left unrated.
As a consequence, the ICR rates the outcome of the PPI as satisfactory. The satisfactory
rating of the largest component, Part A -structural works, is off-set by the failure to
achieve an important shift in thinking and implementation of risk management but this
was compensated by the success of the housing sub-component and average ratings of
some of the non-structural measures.
Efficiency: The partial ex-post Economic Analysis showed that only few investments
failed to pass the usual standard of the 12% EIRR, but the sample as a whole (21.81%)



                                             13

meets that criteria, falling slightly short of the ex-ante EIRR(23.21%). The prioritization
of subprojects based on EIRR made at the design phase actually helped avoiding having
sub-efficient subproject. Therefore, based in this partial ex-post assessment the ICR rates
the efficiency of the PPI as satisfactory.
Consequently, the combination of these ratings results in an overall outcome rating
of satisfactory.


8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Even though there was not a particular assessment on the poverty impact for the flood
protection works, the reduction of vulnerability by the infrastructure built is expected to
benefit the poor the most given their increased exposure to this risk. However, the
important impacts that flood works have on protecting the assets of the poorest
population can not be stressed enough. Better-off sectors of the population can afford
living in well-protected areas and highlands where the flooding risk is minimum. As an
example of the large poverty impacts of the project finaced works, in the city of Sao
Tome (in front of Santa Fe) the flood protection structures prevented the inundation of
the town during the terrible 2003 floods, in contrast with what happened across the river
in the poor neighborhoods of Santa Fe (where flood protection had not been financed
under the program).

Additionally, a formal evaluation by a NGO on the Housing Subcomponent, emphasized
that the participants were 100% under the poverty line and about 85% under the
indigence line, attesting of the good poverty targeting of the methodology used under the
sub-project. The same evaluation highlights that the project demonstrated -against
common prejudice- that women can built their own houses with the same speed and
effectiveness than men, through their partipation in the self-construction program. Some
of the Provincial ICR Annexes highlighted the social participation in the house
component and recommended similar approaches to be followed by other housing
programs in the country.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The institutional development impact (IDI) of the project was aimed at two levels of
government: at the federal level through the continued operation of SUCCE; at the
provincial level through the continued operation of each SUPCE. The project design did
not anticipate a major role or IDI for the municipality level, although most of the
structural and the most important non-structural measures were undertaken at that level.

The original financing plan was for the World Bank to contribute US$ 200 million, for
the Japanese EXIM-Bank (now called JBIC) to finance US$ 120 million, and for the
Participating Provinces to finance the remaining US$ 100 million. The federal
government and municipal governments did not finance investments, yet they were



                                                14

expected to play essential roles: the Federal Government through SUCCE had a pivotal
position as the interface for decisions on design, financing and implementation between
the external funding agencies and the provincial Borrowers; and the municipal
governments had a direct role to play in the selection of sub-projects and in their future
operation and maintenance. The financing plan was such that even the functioning of
SUCCE depended on the contributions of the Provinces.

The asymmetry between financial obligations to fund capital and/or current costs and the
power to influence project implementation decisions was negative for the IDI. At the
federal level SUCCE was buffeted by a series of moves between different secretariats
and levels of hierarchy and management changes and that weakened it considerably. The
changes have been aptly described in the ICR of Loan 4273-AR that used identical
project implementation arrangements:

"The SUCCE was placed within three different line ministries in its seven years of
existence(1). These changes added levels of authority and decision making, causing a
series of disruptions in implementation that were consistent all through the remaining life
of the project. The first SUCCE Executive Chief resigned in December 2000, and the
next one was only designated in February 2002. In the meantime the project was the
responsibility of the General Coordinator of the UCPFE, who was in charge of an array
of other projects and was physically located in a different place. Also, there were three
General Coordinators only in the year 2001. By the end of the same year the lawyer and
the procurement specialist for the project were removed from the SUCCE and the tasks
were delegated to the UCPFE's specialists. Since these specialists were not specially
qualified to deal with provincial matters, when in doubt they would consult with the
pertinent structure within the Federal system. These various consultation processes
considerably extended processing time. Furthermore, since the year 2000 the system of
central files that tracked all entrances and responses to and from the SUCCE was split,
and while the technical folders were kept in the SUCCE all other related matters were
kept in the UCPFE. This change also made it more cumbersome to follow up on each
sub-project's process. The new administrations (first in 2000 and then in 2003) shouldn't
have departed from the original design that respected UEC-SUCCE's autonomy which
was based on years of experience in this type of programs (flood rehabilitation and
prevention) and granted a swift and fast program implementation."

On the basis on the above analysis the ICR rates that the IDI at the federal level was
modest. In addition, it must be noted that had the Bank loan not financed the salaries and
expenditure of the SUCCE and the different SUPCEs these would have been dissolved
and the staff and the capacity gained would be dispersed and in all likelihood be lost to
the flood control sector. It is this fragility of the institution building that fully justifies the
rating of "modest" for the major part of activities.

At the provincial level the situation was not more stable. The SUPCE financing
ultimately depended on the availability of Bank financing which produced excessive
dependence on the Bank and a reluctance to secure alternative sufficient and sustainable
provincial sources of financing. The fact that the Bank loan was extended three times
saved the functioning of the SUPCEs (and the SUCCE) in the end but created much
uncertainty, confirmed by the recent phasing out of the SUCCE after the closing of the
project, in spite of agreed retroactive financing under the recently approved project.
There were some positive legislative decisions taken such as the provincial laws on the
land use in areas prone to flooding but it should be noted that none of the laws were
regulated and as a consequence cannot yet be applied fully. The precariousness of the IDI
could be expected to fairly similar to that observed at the conclusion of the El Niño
project (Loan 4273-AR) where the five analogous SUPCEs in the North-west provinces
of Argentina were all dispersed at the conclusion of the Bank financing. Involvement of


                                                15

municipal government was not envisioned as part of the original objectives of the project.
As such, IDI at the municipal level is left unrated. The project did not consider involving
the municipalities for their responsibility in the maintenance of the works or development
of city strategy for flood management.
However, the project contributed to build strong capacity of the SUPCEs in the
evaluation of risks associated with flooding and in the implementation of structural and
non-structural measures to control and mitigate its impact. In fact, the SUPCEs became
the focal point at the regional level on issues dealing with flood protection and hydraulic
risk management. However, the permanence of these units in the institutions remains in
doubt. In summary, the ICR rates the Institutional Development Impact of the PPI as
"modest".

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)




8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A survey of 400 households was undertaken for the Housing sub-Component to ascertain
the compliance with the project eligibility criteria and to measure the sub-Component
results as perceived by the direct beneficiaries. The survey found regarding the
alignment with the operational manual, proper working arrangements between the federal
and provincial authorities, proper targeting but some delays on users receiving their title
deeds. Regarding the results, the survey verified that the housing sub-component was
properly targeted to the most social vulnerable, it has brought social stability to their
beneficiaries, beneficiaries were highly satisfied with the project and there has been a
significant reduction of population living in flood-prone areas. The survey main findings
are presented in Annex 8.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The technical, financial, social, and institutional resilience to future risk are the most
significant factors for rating the sustainability of the structural and non-structural
measures. The ideal situation is one where there are clear arrangements for where the
operation and maintenace funds for works are going to come from and procedures and
practices are in place with qualified staff that have been involved since the onset of the
project. In a federal government with much Provincial autonomy, it is a fact that the
SUPCEs were grafted in different fashions on to various ministries. On the positive side,
 technical sustainability seems to be assured because the project produced operation
and maintenance manuals, the technology and systems are mostly traditional, thus no
specialized training for their operation and maintenance was necessary. Also, the
compliance with the social safeguards resulted in stakeholder support and particularly for
cases on social ownersip of the constructed facilities. However, the institutional
sustainability is vague. Provinces transferred the responsibility for operations and
maintenance to the municipalities or provincial agencies, but in some instances small
municipalities have been overwhelmed by the requirements of maintaining highly



                                                16

complex works. The capacity of the municipality for taking care of the structural works
was not assessed. The financial sustainability is addressed by contractual agreements
between the Federal Government and the receiving authority (either municipal or
provincial) on who will be responsible for operations and maintenance. However, there is
still no clarity about the Provincial or Municipal Governments commitment (in form of
supportive policies or earmarking funds) to ensure the long-standing expected benefits of
the works.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank preparation of the PPI followed the successful PREI project. The Bank wisely refrained from
experimenting outside a proven successful approach. In addition, project preparation benefited from a
comprehensive water basin study, designed under the previous project. Project design relied on the
detailed and comprehensive analysis.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Similarly the Bank performance during supervision was competent and was handled
closely with the clients. There were a total of four task managers during a nine-year
project implementation period which is not unusual.

A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) undertaken by QAG on September 2002
offers a complete a complete picture on Bank Supervision during that period. Based on
aspects such as Focus on Development, Effectiveness, Supervision of
Fiduciary/Safeguards Aspects and Supervision of Inputs and Processes, the QSA rated
the Bank Supervision as satisfactory. The above average aspects (highly satisfactory)
include the Procurement Aspects, the Management Inputs (Mission's strategic focus and
problem solving and Mission debriefing); while the aspects that deserved a marginally
satisfactory rating where the Realism of Project Rating Performance (Accuracy,
Timeliness and Consistency with subsidiary ratings in PSR and Appropriateness of risk
rating in PSR) and Performance and Progress Monitoring Aspects.

Effectiveness of Bank supervision was overtaken by the 2001-2003 macroeconomic and
political crises in Argentina. Nonetheless, the Bank supervision team was able to adapt
to the changing country circumstances by restructuring the project, by devising a variety
of options to allow the project to continue its implementation during the difficult
circumstances, while trying to maintain a reasonable pace of works. However, the project
was only downgraded on May 2003, after a new Bank TTL became responsible for the
supervision. The three extensions of the closing date were fully justified due to the
economic crises and the slower than expected start-up of the projects in some provinces,


                                                  17

particularly in regards to the Subsidiary Agreements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Both Bank Performance at lending as well as during the supervision phase were rated
"satisfactory". Despite the TTL changes, every TTL had several missions a year,
involving the provincial representatives in a meeting in Buenos Aires and also field visits.
The project sub-components were visited regularly by Bank staff and selected
consultants visited the works to report on their progress. Additionally, after the 2002
crisis, the team supervising the project was very actively seeking ways of restructuring
the project (after JBIC suspended its financing) and the Government was highly
appreciative of this proactive approach.

The Bank contributed to reaching of the development objectives sought by the project
despite a significant loss of funding assigned to the works and the exogenous
circumstances that affected project implementation at various times.

Additionally, the project has also been a key vehicle for policy dialogue with the
participating provinces.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government implementation performance must be distinguished between the Federal
Government performance, the (Federal) Implementation Agency performance and the
Provincial Governments Implementation Agencies' performance. The performance of the
Implementation Agencies (both at the Federal and Provincial level) are explained in the
following section.

The ICR rates the federal Government performance as unsatisfactory because of the
frequent changes in ministerial allocation and in management, starting in 2000. These
changes affected project implementation negatively without offering any obvious benefit
for the project. Indeed, so many institutional changes to the Federal implementation
Agency are even hard to follow: Since its creation in 1992 the SUCCE was under the
supervision of the Central Executing Unit (UEC), placed within the Secretariat of
Financial Assistance to the Provinces, itself within the Ministry of the Interior. Since the
20th of June, 2000, the SUCCE's

supervision was transferred to the Coordinating Unit for Programs with International
Financing (UCPFE), within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, Secretariat of
Public Works. In the meantime this Ministry was absorbed by the Ministry of the
Economy and then was reborn again in the year 2002 to be renamed to Ministry of
Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services. While the SUCCE was under the
UEC, there was an Executive coordinator in place and a team of experts that could deal



                                             18

with technical issues with relative autonomy.


In particular, the last years of implementation put a stronger emphasis on the structural
measures, at the expense of the other aspects. A balance on both structural as non-
structural measures was envisioned in the project design as the best combination to
reduce flood vulnerability. At the provincial level there was more stability with the
exception of the province of Corrientes that suffered two federal interventions during
project implementation, none of which was because of the PPI. These interventions did
slow the PPI considerably however. The provincial Governments fulfill their
responsibility for the implementation of the flood defense works in a adequate manner.
The ICR rates the overall provincial implementation performance as satisfactory. Since
the provincial implementation had probably a higher impact on the performance of the
project, the overall government performance is satisfactory.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                The performance of the central unit, SUCCE as well as the provincial ones
                the SUPCEs has been of high quality in all aspects of
                implementation. Despite the frequent changes in Project Coordinators and
                the obvious stalling of investments between 1998-2003 [including both
                during the recession (1998-2001) and during the post crisis period (2002-
UCP&PFE-
SUCCE           2003) before the contracts included the price re-determination
                clause] any Project Coordinating Unit managing to implement a project at
                the federal level in Argentina during these difficult times deserves
                satisfactory rating.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates the overall borrower performance as satisfactory because overall, the
government and implementation institutions ensured quality in the preparation and
implementation, contributing to achieving most of the outcomes in terms of flood
protection with the majority of the objectives accomplished under very difficult country
circumstances (one natural disaster and one macroeconomic meltdown) all in compliance
with the social and fiduciary safeguards. Furthermore, t he construction of works has
been successfully carried out in spite of the crisis impacts, with problems on only a few
of them. The environmental approach has been considered as best practice and the
housing component was implemented with benefits to the population much beyond the



                                              19

housing improvement.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Lesson One: Sharing the costs and obligations is a sound principle and will likely
promote efficiency and sustainability. This principle was not followed for the PPI since
all structural and many non-structural works were financed with very limited municipal
contributions and the supraregional activities with no contribution from the federal level.
 The debt service relied only on the Participating Provinces. The lack of financial
contribution from the most immediate beneficiaries had an effect on project ownership.
The lack of municipal contributions may have reduced the motivation of the
municipalities to contribute to the operations and maintenance of the works built.

Lesson Two: Decision making authority should be aligned with ability for influencing
project progress. The analogous asymmetry between decision-making power and
importance for the implementation progress should also be noted. The SUCCE had the
most decision-making authority. Yet, SUCCE had a weak relation with the technical
departments (such as Recursos Hídricos), albeit in the same Ministry. Consequently, its
tasks were limited to coordinating and controlling the provincial activities at the expenses
of the supra regional studies, the NOA basin study and the warning system. The
provinces played a subsidiary role in the design of the project, in the distribution of the
loan, and in the resolution of procurement conflicts. In future projects, it would be
valuable first to consider closer links between the SUCCE and the corresponding
ministerial department, and, second, to share the authority of project implementation
between the federal level and the level in charge of repaying the debt service. Thus,
each SUPCE's role would be primarily to support the participating provinces with
technical advice and strategic vision of the flood prevention scheme.

Lesson Three: Complex works such as flood protection construction requires flexible
systems for timely implementation. The administrative and procedural requirements that
countries and the Bank are set to follow in works of important magnitude are increased
by the need to consult between different level of Governments. Therefore, the complex
designs and construction issues (proper of large works such as flood protection
works) have to be approved by different stances to administrative requirements. Such
controls could become redundant and result on a vicious cycle, where any change
suggested triggers a chain of requirements for clearances, without necessarily offering
clear added value for quality. Alternative, more flexible arrangements could include
using some country systems for project delivery, or working directly with provincial or
large municipal authorities for implementation of the projects.

Lesson Four: Effective flood protection requires basin-wide action. The failure of the
PPI to create and operate an early flood warning system, as well as upgrading the
previously completed water basin study on the North West provinces, casts doubts on
how far the Participating Provinces have evolved from considering only local interests
while neglecting more strategic cost-effective regional measures. The failure at the



                                             20

Federal level to advocate and achieve such an obvious priority measure raises questions
as to the value added by the Federal level, including SUCCE. It would have been
expected that the Federal agency argue forcefully in favor of all supra-provincial
measures to anticipate and mitigate the damage from floods.

Lesson Five: The self-built houses offer more proof that sharing the costs and
obligations will promote ownership, efficiency, and sustainability. The project's housing
program is its most successful component. The choice of housing as the main social
investment was felicitous since the poverty alleviation targeting was sharp. The
explanation is that the poor are more likely to build on the cheapest ground that is likely
to be in those areas that are most susceptible to flood damage.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

1.- In section 7.7, when a reference is made to loan BIRF 3280-AR, the name "Road
Project" is not the correct one, the actual name is "Proyecto de Saneamiento Financiero y
Desarrollo Económico de las Provincias Argentinas".

All references to project BIRF 3280-AR has been changed to the official Project name of
"Provincial Development Project".

2.- In section 11, second lesson, the NOA basin study was not undertaken under the loan
4273-AR, as such we believe it should not be inclueded in the report, not only because it
was financed with another loan but also because this point has been already made in the
specific report for that loan.

The language on the second lesson has been modified to clarify that the project comment
refers to not achieving the upgrading of the existing NOA basin study, rather than merely
producing the existing NOA study.

3.- In section 9, we do not share what it has been presented regarding the operation and
maintenance of works, since there is documentation related to this issue and to the
adequate financing for works.

The rating have been revised to reflect the availability of the documentation.

4.- In section 10.2, we do not share the insatisfactory rating for the Federal Government
Performance, given that the overall project has been implemented in satisfactory manner,
implementing a large number of works, houses and non-structural measures that allowed
to bring forward the issue of flood risk to the agenda.

The section has been rewritten to clearly specify the difference between the Federal
Government Performance and the Federal Implementation Unit performance, which is


                                             21

satisfactory for the latter.

5.- In section 10.2, the report seems to be critical when it is mentioned that in the last
years more emphasis was given to non-structural measures, when in reality this indicates
that the redressing of the fund allocation and JEMIX exiting made it necessary to allocate
more funds to the works under construction, and also these works were the more
important for the project.

Section 10.2 was modified to clarify that a balance on both structural as non-structural
measures was envisioned in the project design as the best combination to reduce flood
vulnerability. This particularly comment may reflect the view still held by the
Borrower that works are more important to the project than non-structural measures.


(b) Cofinanciers

The issues raised by the representatives of the Japan Bank for International Cooperation
have been duly addressed in section 7.2.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             22

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project would help improve the security of economic assets and persons living in
flood-prone areas by constructing defense facilities to reduce future losses due to floods,
and by strengthening national and provincial institutions and systems for dealing with
future floods. The specific objectives would be to enhance provincial capacity to deal
with periodic flooding by upgrading their flood preparedness and mitigation systems, as
well as strengthening coordination within the Basin. The aim was to provide technically
sound and cost-effective flood protection coverage of the most important economic areas,
and to develop satisfactory institutional mechanisms to sustain them.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Following the December 2001 macroeconomic crisis that deeply affected Argentina, the
Loan Agreement was formally amended by a letter dated October 16, 2002, from the
Bank Country Director, to the Minister of the Economy. The project objectives were
amended to: (a) improve the physical and institutional flood protection capabilities within
the Participating Provinces; and (b) improve maternal and child health through the
delivery of quality services; and to strengthen disease surveillance and control activities;
all for purposes of reducing the acute risk of disease in the Borrower's territory. With a
rapid disbursement of funds for maternal and child health programs, the amendments did
not affect the Flood Protection project in other ways than through reducing its level of
funding. The ICR will concentrate on the Flood Protection project and will not address
the issue of the outcome, sustainability and institutional development impact of the
components on maternal and child health care; the impacts of the Health sector
component of the Emergency Program (Health Emergency Program-HEP) are addressed
under a separate ICR section prepared as part of the Higher Education Reform Project
(P034091) on December 9, 2004 (Annex 8, Report No. 26914), included in Annex 13.1

Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome is satisfactory including the
Emergency project which has an overall satisfactory rating (separate ICR summarized in
Additional Annex 13.1); the Bank performance rating is satisfactory, and the borrower
performance rating is also satisfactory. The assessment of Risk to Development
Outcome is rated as moderate.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target Formally  Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from    Revised
                                           approval       Target    Completion or Target

                                         documents)       Values             Years

Indicator 1 : Population affected by floods
Value         Population affected by    Population                No major floods have
(quantitative the 1992 flood : Buenos affected flood of           affected populations with



                                             23

or           Aires: 453,000 Chaco:    similar intensity             the exception of Santa Fe
Qualitative) 328,000 Corrientes:      reduced by 20 to              in 2003. The failure of the
             659,000 Entre Rios :     30%.                          flood protection in that
             883,000 Formosa:                                       Province in 2003 occurred
             246,000 Misiones:                                      in a zone that was outside
             685,000 Santa Fe:                                      the PPI
             1,987,000
Date
achieved     03/01/1997               12/30/2005                    06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %     The estimated population protected by flood protection works of about 4 million

achievement) people over an area of 236,000 sq. km. in 48 departments of six provinces.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                 Original Target      Formally

  Indicator    Baseline Value     Values (from         Revised    Actual Value Achieved at
                                     approval          Target    Completion or Target Years
                                   documents)          Values

Indicator 1 : % of Population served by the Housing program % of Population served by
              Shelters

Value         Year 1: 20% for                                    5,643 Houses benefiting a

(quantitative Housing program                                    population of approx. 30,000

or            10% for shelter   100%                             people. 99 Shelters potentially

Qualitative)  program                                            benefitting and estimated of
                                                                 10,000 people.
Date achieved 03/03/1997        12/30/2005                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Final outcomes exceed initial targets by 13% (113% of initial number of planned

achievement)  houses were built)




                                              24

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring  Board      ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed          Reason for

   Date(s)    Approved     Restructuring at Restructuring in Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change     DO      IP        USD M             Changes Made
                                                            Macroeconomic Crisis:

10/16/2002   N               S        S              98.65  Reassignment of funds to
                                                            Emergency Health
                                                            Component.




                                       25

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                          Appraisal
              Components                Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                              M)         Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

WORKS AND GOODS (Structural
Measures & Shelters)                            122.70              108.58         88.49

HOUSING MATERIALS                                31.80               26.25         82.55
MEDICAL DRUGS, MILK and
SUPPLIES                                          0.00               11.71

MEDICAL DRUGS, VACCINES                           0.00               23.04
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & Training)                41.50               25.25         60.84

EARLY FLOOD WARNING                               4.00                0.13          3.25
                    Total Baseline Cost         200.00              194.96
Physical Contingencies                            0.00
Price Contingencies                               0.00
                    Total Project Costs         200.00
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                0.00          0.00
              Total Financing Required          200.00              194.96



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds              Type of                               Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing   Estimate   Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD M)          M)         Appraisal

  Borrower                                            96.10            57.60       59.94
  JAPAN: JEXIMBANK (UNTIED
FACILITY)                                            120.00            27.30       22.75

  JAPAN: EXIMBANK/MINISTRY
OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE                                  0.00            0.00
(EID/MITI)
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                   200.00           158.60       79.30
DEVELOPMENT


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          26

27

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The table below details the state of conclusion of the subprojects:

Part A Structural measures

 Participating     First      Second       Completed Sub-projects             Total
 Province          priority   priority                   under                number of
                   sub-       sub-                       implementation       sub-projects
                   projects   projects                                        expected
 Buenos Aires      9(1 en     9            10            -                    10
                   C.F.)
 Chaco             3          3            7             2                    9
 Corrientes        6          7            2             -                    2
 Entre Ríos        6          10           14            3                    17
 Formosa           2          1            4             -                    4
 Misiones          8          2            2             -                    2
 Santa Fe          8          7            15            -                    15
 Total             42         39           54            5                    59

The number of sub-projects is taken from Annex D of the original Loan Agreement. The
distinction between first and second priority sub-projects represented an effort to
stimulate competition between eligible provinces for financing. In summary, 59 out of
the originally identified 81 subprojects (73%) have been completed by loan closing. This
could be compared with the original and actual financing plan where the original
financing of US$ 420.0 million (excluding interest during construction) was reduced by
US$ 35 million (due to the re-allocation of child and maternal health care components as
explained in section 3.4 above) and by the cancellation of another US$ 91.3 million of
the JEXIM financing (of JEMIX's original financial amount of US$ 120 million). The
total reduction was US$ 126.3 million, or 26 percent, fairly close to the reduction in the
number of sub-projects of 27 percent. Nevertheless, the reduction in available resources
was, in part, counter-balanced by the peso devaluation. The sub-projects implemented
under the loan had been identified as priority projects by the provincial governments.
They represented key building blocks in the system of protection of the cities where they
were implemented. Thus, their completion has achieved a substantial improvement of
protection from flooding, as evidenced by fact that no flooding has occured in the project
cities since finalization of works. Therefore, the ICR rates the efficacy of the structural
measures as "satisfactory".

Part B Non-structural Measures

1.       Provision of technical assistance and material support to establish and/or
strengthen each Participating Province's capacity to deal with flood problems through: (a)
the preparation and issuance of plans and regulations to rationalize land usage in flood-
prone areas; (b) the creation of a unit within each Participating Province's public
administration with responsibility for coordinating civil defense, the flood warning


                                             28

system, hydraulic works consultation, facilities maintenance and environmental
safeguard activities with respect to flood within said Participating Province; and (c) the
operation of SUPCEs (SAR-estimated cost US$ 2.5 million, or 0.7% of Total Base Cost).

This component was partially completed. Each participating province did adopt a draft
Flood Protection Law as a condition for its inclusion in the project but the Laws have not
been regulated and are only partially operational on the basis of municipal ad-hoc
decrees. The creation of provincial units to coordinate civil defense, the flood warning
system etc., in line with the need at design time to create and maintain local capacity for
project implementation, however, this hasnot happened consistently across Provinces.
Each Participating Province did create, or retain, a SUPCE for preparing and helping
implement the project but the operating costs of these SUPCEs were financed with
proceeds from the Bank loan and not from provincial funds. The ICR rates that the
completion of sub-component 1 of the Non-structural Measures as "moderately
satisfactory".

2.      Construction, within Participating Province flood-prone areas for which works
under part A of the Project would not be constructed, of shelters to protect populations
affected by floods (which shelters would be usable for other communal activities in the
absence of a flood emergency), as well as design of improved civil defense arrangements
in each Participating Province so as to deal more effectively with flood emergencies
(SAR-estimated cost US$ 12.4 million, or 3.4% of Total Base Cost).

The completion of shelters is shown in the Table below:

 Participating Province          Number of shelters            Number of shelters
                                 programmed                    completed
 Buenos Aires                    18                            3 double shelters~6 single
                                                               shelters
 Corrientes                      33                            18 single shelters
 Chaco                           20                            12 single, 2 double~16
                                                               single shelters
 Entre Ríos                      12                            10 single,1 double~12
                                                               single shelters
 Formosa                         25                            ---
 Misiones                        17                            17 single shelters
 Santa Fe                        30                            30 single shelters
 Total                           155                           ~99 single shelters

A special analysis has been undertaken by the Bank to evaluate the effectiveness of this
sub-component and draw lessons for the design of future projects. A Bank consultant
visited a sample of 19 shelters distributed in five provinces. The main findings show that
one third of the visited shelters were poorly maintained, some of them were totally
abandoned, others had suffered from vandalism which deprived the shelter from
electrical and sanitary equipment. Most of the shelters did not have any security
equipment such as fire drill and gates, even though this was planned in the agreement.



                                             29

In relation to the shelter's use in time on no flooding, 60 percent of the shelters were
used temporarily in manner that allowed the shelter be emptied in times of flooding.
Nevertheless, two of the shelters have been occupied by individual families, one of them
being in the shelter for 2 years; another one accommodates families which suffered a
disaster in December 2004. These families had been resettled in the shelter for 5 months
at the time of the consultant's visit, in conditions where the lack of privacy starts to raise
issues. Finally, the local police office has occupied another shelter, dividing part of the
building in offices for permanent use. Generally, the temporary (non-flooding) use of the
shelters is often unplanned and unmanaged, and some non-used shelters are not in a state
to fulfill their role in times of flooding. The lack of a contingency plan and agreement
with local communities also raises some concerns.

Other reports from the SUPCEs indicate that in five of the six provinces the shelters did
receive persons displaced by flooding. However, the question could be posed whether the
shelter component was the optimal solution to a temporary problem of alleviating
suffering and inconvenience. In general, there was great variability on shelter
implementation results among the different municipalities, with many having great
success and contributing positively as a space for community activities. The ICR rates
the shelter component as "moderately satisfactory".

3.       Provision of materials for construction by affected residents of flood-resistant
housing in Participating Province flood-prone areas for which works under Part A of the
Project would not be constructed (SAR-estimated cost US$ 31.0 million, or 8.5% of
Total Base Cost).

The housing component under a system of auto-construction by the intended
beneficiaries has been the object of a special evaluation "Evaluación Social del
Subprograma de Viviendas del Proyecto de Prevención de Inundaciones", undertaken by
a team under the direction of social specialist consultant. The results of the study are
summarized in Annex 8. The housing program has been satisfactorily implemented as the
table below indicates a completion rate of 113 percent as compared to the original
allocation:

 Participating      Original      Addition by    Addition by    Total        Total
 Province           allocation    March 2000     May 2001       allocation   completed,
                    (Housing      Bank           Bank                        December
                    Units)        mission        mission                     31,2006
 Buenos Aires       286           ---            +291           577          468
 Chaco              1275          ---            -100           1175         1235
 Corrientes         828           +300           +100           1228         846
 Entre Ríos         255           +145           ---            400          272
 Formosa            828           ---            ---            828          446
 Misiones           445           ---            126            571          570
 Santa Fe           1083          ---            ---            1083         1096
 Total              5000          +445           +417           5862         5643




                                               30

The housing program has certainly generated significant benefits to an economically
vulnerable population, created a good deal of social capital and represents a well targeted
program to alleviate poverty. Three pillars support the success of this sub-component
and its resulting rating. First, the poverty targeting of the program was extremely
effective; 100% of beneficiary households were below the poverty line and 85% below
the indigence line. Second, the housing subcomponent achieved greatly its intended
purposes. When measured against the objective of reducing the vulnerability of
population in flood-prone areas the study reports that only 4 percent of the beneficiaries
of the constructed houses still suffer from some level of flooding, as compared to the
totality (100% exposure) of the resettled population. About 30,000 individuals improved
their living conditions with a safer and healthier dwelling, about 5,000 more of the
originally planned target of 25,000. Through the deed title, they were better integrated
into the community. The socioeconomic impact was considerable with 40 percent of the
surveyed households improving their employment situation mostly due to the capacity
they acquired in the construction sector. Furthermore, the subcomponent delivered an
additional 13% of housing units using the same ampunt of financial resources, with the
project costing less for the same housing type than other housing projects. Third, the
social intervention methodology used for the subproject has been praised as 'good
practice' because it moves away from the former patronizing approach and relies on
community empowerment and self-help. The use of this methodology resulted in
cohesive communities and a strong sense of ownership by beneficiaries, which translated
into a low ratio of families leaving their homes(less that 10 %).    On balance, the ICR
rates the housing component as "highly satisfactory".

4.       Installation of a flood-warning system consisting of: (a) a network of river flow
gauging stations throughout the Participating Provinces; (b) a satellite link to transmit
information collected by such gauging stations to a central data bank; (c) computer links
allowing Participating Provinces non-restricted access to such central data bank; and (d)
improved flood forecasting software (SAR-estimated cost US$ 3.8 million, or 1.0% of
Total Base Cost).

This component had already been identified as a priority under the PREI in 1993 and
certain hardware and software was purchased for the use of the Instituto Nacional de
Ciencia y Tecnología Hídrica (INCYTH) that was the repository of hydrological data and
know-how in Argentina . A study was financed under the PREI that would be the basis
for the design and inclusion of the component in the PPI. Instituto del Agua y Ambiente
(the renamed INCYTH) was to be the implementing agency for the component. A six-
year period ensued under the PPI during which certain hardware was purchased; a
satellite communication was created in six out of the seven Participating Provinces,
where bidding documents were prepared, and where a two-stage bidding procedure was
decided. The first stage was a pre-qualification for prospective suppliers of the early
warning system, followed by the request for technical and financial proposals from the
pre-qualified firms. The bidding process was initiated in 2000 and was interrupted in
August 2004 when the Borrower and the World Bank jointly agreed to declare void the
international competitive bid for the early flood-warning system because of insufficient
time to set up the system and train the staff that would operate it added to the



                                              31

reassignment of project funds. However, the hardware and software purchased under the
Project (particularly for the interpretation of satellite images) have been used by the
Centro Operativo de Alerta Hidrológico (COAH) currently operated and the National
Water Institute (INA) to receive, transmit, analyze, and disseminate meteorological
information to different national and bi-national entities. Given the circumstances that
prevented the implementation of this component, this component is "not-rated".

5.       Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of, Participating
Provinces to: (a) assist in the design of flood protection works and in the supervision of
their construction; (b) design and implement improved civil defense and emergency
procedures to be used during flood; (c) support social assistance and community
mobilization efforts in connection with Part B.3 of the Project (flood-resistant housing);
and (d) make use of the flood warning system installed under Part B.4 of the Project
(SAR-estimated cost of sub-items 5 and 6 US$ 34.7 million, or 9.5% of Total Base Cost).
Part of this component was successfully implemented as related to the housing program,
as well as for the design and supervision of structural works, where no major issues
arose. However, the design and implementation of improved civil defense and
emergency procedures appear more doubtful, since non-structural measures were limited
to the environmental plans and land-use legislation. As a consequence, the ICR rates the
completion of the subcomponents B5(a), (b) and (c) component as "moderately
satisfactory".

6.       Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of, the Borrower to: (a)
enable users to make use of the flood warning system installed under Part B.4 of the
Project; and (b) carry out Project supervision activities, including auditing services when
necessary (SAR-estimated cost of sub-items 5 and 6 US$ 34.7 million, or 9.5% of Total
Base Cost). This component was partially implemented. The first part related to the flood
warning system was never implemented because of the joint Borrower and Bank decision
to stop the bidding process, due to a)delay on the preparation of the first stage bidding
documents pending the signatures of "Convenios" between INA (National Water
Institute), Minister of Interior and Provinces, b)lack of agreement on the use of the
Ezeiza Flood Routing Model promoted by INA to be included in the second stage of
bidding and c)the macroeconomic crisis that delayed the project and made it impossible
to complete in the project time frame, even with the extension of the project closing date.
The second part was implemented since the loan proceeds financed the operation of both
the SUCCE and the seven SUPCEs. Accordingly, the ICR rates the completion of
subcomponents B6(b) and (c) as "satisfactory".

W hile this subcomponent had been identified as priority in the project design,
disbursement has been mainly focused on flood defense-related studies and supervision
cost, at the expense of the activities aimed at developing a prevention system. Overall,
the TA component, initially planned for US$41.5 had been reduced to US$36.5 with the
2002 amendment, of which 70 percent were disbursed, or US$25 million.

7.        Carrying out of environmental programs consisting of: (a) environmental
education and public awareness campaigns in communities benefiting from works under



                                              32

Part A of the Project; (b) environmental management and monitoring capacity
strengthening actions with respect to provincial, municipal and community agencies or
groups affected by or involved in Project implementation of environmental activities; (c)
improvement of baseline knowledge with respect to the ecology and dynamics of riverine
and flood plain ecosystems within areas covered by the Project; and (d) improvement in
the protection and management of wetlands within areas covered by the Project (SAR-
estimated cost US$ 3.6 million, or 1.0% of Total Base Cost). All Participating Provinces
have approved a Flood Protection Law (albeit not yet regulated in any province); drafted
contingency plans in many cities; developed environmental improvement plans in some
cities, and solid waste management plans in others. As a consequence, the ICR rates the
completion of this component as "satisfactory".

In summary, the ICR concludes that of the eight components of the PPI, one component
(B3) is rated "highly-satisfactory", four components (A, B6 and B7) are rated
"satisfactory" and three (B 1, B2 and B5) are rated "moderately satisfactory", with one
subcomponent (B4) left unrated As a consequence, the ICR rates the outcome of the PPI
as "satisfactory". The "satisfactory" rating of the largest component, Part A -structural
works, is off-set by the failure to achieve an important shift in thinking and
implementation of risk management but compensated back to "satisfactory" by the
success of the housing sub-component and average ratings of some of the non-structural
measures.




                                             33

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


Cost information available for sub-projects under Component A (structural measures) permitted to undertak
economic evaluations by comparing the EIRR project ex-ante and ex-post. The subprojects that were prese
both EIRR analyses represented about 70% of the initial investment (at appraissal) and 46% of the comp
investment (at completion). Lack of reliable cost information for the shelter and housing sub-component di
permit a solid EIRR analysis of those subcomponents. However, given that more then 80% of project proc
were directed towards Component A, it could be inferred that the analysis is representative for the overall pro

At appraisal, an economic analysis was completed to determine the economic viability of the investment pro
The analysis classified the proposed subprojects according to its economic internal rate of return (EIRR) ran
from 11.19% to 79.15% with an overall EIRR of 20.4%

The EIRR of each subproject was computed as the discounted rate equalizing the present value of the strea
costs and benefits associated with the subproject. The cost stream was calculated in constant 1995 p
including the capital cost of the investment and the associated operating and maintenance cost for the life o
constructed facilities.

Economic benefits were estimated using the avoided costs of direct flood damage related with each subpro
Data used were based on actual cost data from past floods (1982-83 and 1992).

The revised ex-post economic analysis focused on the 22 subprojects evaluated during preparation that
actually implemented. Those subprojects included only "works" components (housing and shelter compo
were not considered in this analysis). The revised analysis uses the same previous methodology to re-estimat
actual EIRR for each of the 22 subprojects.

The analysis assumes that the life of the constructed facilities is 50 years and that the ratio benefits per d
spent (by intervention) is the same as the one estimated in the previous economic analysis. The analysis use
Argentinean annual consumer price index (base 1995=100) to compare cost and benefits in the same mon
unit. The following table present the operating and maintenance costs used in the analysis as a percentage o
final cost of the intervention:

Table: Costs of Maintenance and Operation as a percentage of the total cost of the intervention

Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
Project/plan name                  %
BUENOS AIRES
Zarate y Campana                   1
San Pedro y otros                  1
CHACO
Resistencia                        0.8
SANTA FE
Ayo San Antonio                    0.3
Ayo Cululu                         0.4
Ayo. Monje Carrizales              0.3
Rio Carcaraña                      0.3
Alteo Puentes                      0.3
Sist. Setubal                      0.3
Ayo. Las Conchas                   0.3



                                            34

Ayo. Colastine                   0.3
ENTRE RIOS
C. del Uruguay                   0.65
La Paz                           0.2
Concordia                        0.7
Parana                           0.4
Gualeguaychu                     0.5
Gualeguay                        0.9
FORMOSA
Formosa                          0.4
Clorinda                         0.3
CORRIENTES
Corrientes Master Plan           0.3
Goya Master Plan                 0.8
MISIONES
Alteo de Puentes                 0.3


ALL SUBPROJECTS                  0.5

Under those assumptions, the analysis recalculates the actual cost incurred by type of intervention inclu
defenses, infrastructure improvements, canalizations and drainage. A stream of benefits is imputed to
intervention type according to the ratio benefits per dollar spent (by intervention) adjusting the values to con
pesos 1995. After recalculating the costs and benefits for each subproject and for each type of intervention w
subprojects, the specific EIRR is calculated for each one of them. The following table compares the ex-ante
ex-post EIRR for each subproject and for the overall project.


Table: Economic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) ex-ante and ex-post classified by subprojects.



                             IRR             IRR                             COST EX-          Percentage ov
                                                                                               the total
Project/plan name            (EX-ANTE) (EX-POST)                             POST
                                                                             (PESOS 1995)      investment
                                                                                               sampled



BUENOS AIRES
Zarate y Campana             15.62%         2.97%                  (-)       7,145,417         2.17%
San Pedro y otros            7.81%          5.62%                  (-)       6,384,536         1.94%
CHACO
Resistencia                  15.85%         20.63%                 (+)       116,062,546       35.25%
SANTA FE
Ayo San Antonio              25.31%         33.68%                 (+)       2,158,433         0.66%
Ayo Cululu                   25.23%         33.63%                 (+)       6,468,518         1.96%
Ayo. Monje Carrizales        34.14%         40.43%                 (+)       2,328,787         0.71%



                                            35

Rio Carcaraña                  46.82%        59.81%              (+)      6,413,736        1.95%
Alteo Puentes                  22.24%        30.16%              (+)      12,372,786       3.76%
Sist. Setubal                  18.45%        5.03%               (-)      10,339,324       3.14%
Ayo. Las Conchas               27.82%        37.72%              (+)      3,079,067        0.94%
Ayo. Colastine                 34.95%        50.42%              (+)      1,746,243        0.53%
ENTRE RIOS
C. del Uruguay                 15.52%        5.09%               (-)      24,064,038       7.31%
La Paz                         15.63%        17.60%              (+)      2,708,290        0.82%
Concordia                      20.75%        19.25%              (-)      22,378,975       6.80%
Parana                         15.36%        15.21%              (=)      29,221,852       8.87%
Gualeguaychu                   11.75%        11.78%              (=)      10,051,686       3.05%
Gualeguay                      27.44%        30.22%              (+)      30,295,114       9.20%
FORMOSA
Formosa                        23.53%        33.28%              (+)      4,634,545        1.41%
Clorinda                       29.38%        38.45%              (+)      8,384,383        2.55%
CORRIENTES
Corrientes Master Plan         41.17%        50.11%              (+)      4,912,202        1.49%
Goya Master Plan               12.36%        28.42%              (+)      13,566,628       4.12%
MISIONES
Alteo de Puentes               23.57%        27.13%              (+)      4,575,601        1.39%


ALL SUBPROJECTS                23.21%        21.81%              (-)      329,292,707      100%


According to the revised economic analysis 15 out of 22 subprojects present EIRRs even higher than the
estimated at appraisal and two are approximately equal. From the five subprojects that performed worse
predicted, four of them (Zarate and Campana and San Pedro in Buenos Aires; Sistema Setubal in Santa Fe
Concepcion del Uruguay in Entre Rios) have EIRRs that are below the threshold of 12%. However, the pro
performing worse than in the appraisal estimates only represent 14,5% of the total investment sampled.

Overall the project has a EIRR of 21.81% (for the subprojects included in this sample) and this value is
slightly lower than the value predicted previously (23.21%) for the same sample. A EIRR of 21.81 is satisfa
since it is still higher than the threshold of 12%. This result is not surprising since the subprojects act
implemented were chosen among those with higher predicted IERR, as agreed with the Bank at appraisal.




                                            36

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Armando Ribeiro                                                    Former Task Team
Araujo                 Consultant               OPCPR              Leader
Abel Mejia             Sector Manager           LCSEN              Senior Water Engineer

Jose Simas             Lead Water Resource
                       Engineer                 LCSEN              Water Engineer

Supervision/ICR
Armando Ribeiro
Araujo                 Consultant               OPCPR              Former task team leader

Ventura Bengoechea     Lead Water and
                       Sanitation Spec          AFTU2              Engineer

Adrien Campbell        Consultant               LCSFW              Environmental Engineer
Asif Faiz              Country Manager          AFMSD              Division Chief

Maryse D. Gautier      Manager, Portfolio and
                       Operati                  EACPF              Task Manager

Ede Jorge Ijjasz-
Vasquez                Manager                  ETWWP              Hydrologist

Juan Carlos Linares    Consultant               LCSUW              Team Member
Abel Mejia             Sector Manager           LCSEN              Senior Water Engineer

Juan D. Quintero       Sr Environmental
                       Engr.                    EASRE              Environmental Engineer

Nicola Ruggero
Saporiti               Investment Officer       CASDR              Team Member

Juan Alberto Schnack Consultant                 LCSPS
Pierre E. Sooh         Sr Municipal Engr.       LCSUW              Engineer
Miguel Vargas-         Water & Sanitation
Ramirez                Spec.                    LCSUW              Team Member

Ulrich Zachau          Country Director         ECCU6              Economist


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived          DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   12/19/1996             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               0.00
2   06/05/1997             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               0.00
3   05/11/1998             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               1.21
4   01/04/1999             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               7.63
5   06/03/1999             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             12.34
6   12/07/1999             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             30.02




                                             37

8   12/06/2000             Satisfactory Satisfactory                             58.11
9   06/15/2001             Satisfactory Satisfactory                             77.61
10 11/24/2001              Satisfactory Satisfactory                             91.79
11 05/30/2002              Satisfactory Satisfactory                             95.38
12 10/09/2002              Satisfactory Satisfactory                             98.65
13 05/30/2003              Satisfactory Unsatisfactory                          130.71
14 10/26/2003              Satisfactory Unsatisfactory                          137.42
15 11/25/2003              Satisfactory Unsatisfactory                          142.69
16 12/04/2003              Satisfactory Unsatisfactory                          142.69
17 03/31/2004              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            157.76
18 06/04/2004              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            165.75
19 12/01/2004              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            191.67
20 12/29/2004              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            192.40
21 04/07/2005              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            199.44
22 12/05/2005              Satisfactory                                         214.99
23 06/19/2006              Satisfactory Satisfactory                            225.24


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY94                                                         25.32
                    FY95                                                         66.11
                    FY96                                                         72.97
                    FY97                                                         11.65
                    FY98                                                          0.00
                    FY99                                                          0.00
                    FY00                                                          0.00
                    FY01                                                          0.00
                    FY02                                                          0.00
                    FY03                                                          0.00
                    FY04                                                          0.00
                    FY05                                                          0.00
                    FY06                                                          0.00
                    FY07                                                          0.00
                                       Total:                                   176.05
Supervision/ICR
                    FY94                                                          0.00
                    FY95                                                          0.00
                    FY96                                                          3.72
                    FY97                                                         33.00



                                           38

FY98                      18.37
FY99                      55.92
FY00               17     54.40
FY01               19     79.40
FY02               12     61.77
FY03               19    104.63
FY04               16    107.75
FY05               13     63.19
FY06               14    134.91
FY07                4     23.18
        Total:    114    740.24




            39

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         40

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

The housing component under a system of auto-construction by the intended
beneficiaries has been the object of a special evaluation "Evaluación Social del
Subprograma de Viviendas del Proyecto de Prevención de Inundaciones", undertaken by
a consultants team under the direction of a social specialist. Its main findings are
presented below:

            Summary of Social Evaluation of the Housing sub-component

Study Objectives

   · To analyze the housing component procedures under the PPI and the differences
       between the actual and the proposed procedures in the operational manual with an
       aim of improving future operations;
   · To analyze the housing component outcome in four provinces in terms of
       improved quality of life;
   · To estimate the reduction of population residing in flood-prone areas after the
       implementation of the housing component in the selected study areas.

Study Design and Sample Size

    · A total of 400 households were interviewed in the four provinces studied (Chaco,
        Corrientes, Misiones and Santa Fe) out of a total of 3,600 houses built (11%).
        The total sample error is estimated to be below 5 percent. The study was both
        quantitative and qualitative and comprised beneficiaries, as well as government
        officials managing the program.


Selected Findings regarding the Housing Sub-component Procedures and Selection
Criteria

    · The PPI housing component was properly coordinated with the provincial
        housing institutes, with each municipality, and with the providers of public
        services;
   · Program beneficiaries were selected using criteria of inclusion and exclusion. The
       selection was made by each participating municipality and the SUPCE. The
       selection started at the "barrio" level, after an initial proposal generally made by
       the municipalities in conjunction with the SUPCEs that verified that the criteria of
       the operating manual were met. The basic criterion is that the beneficiaries should
       reside in flood-prone areas, or already have been displaced by floods;
   · A social census of the potential beneficiaries was usually undertaken by the
       municipality, although this was not strictly required by the operational manual.
       The census main objective was to exclude speculative beneficiaries who may
       have been attracted by the possibility of "free" housing;
   ·    The criteria for inclusion comprised (i) residing in flood-prone areas; (ii) lacking



                                             41

       the financial means to buy a place to live; (iii) having only one place of residence;
       (iv) committing to live in the PPI house for at least 5 years before considering
       selling it; (v) committing to contribute labor for the construction, and (vi)
       committing to use the housing materials vouchers;
   · The study showed that there were some cases of speculative beneficiaries in spite
       of the effort to avoid them;
   · The most frequent reason for the delays was stoppage on building materials
       deliveries;
   · The operating manual did not specify any procedure for obtaining title to the
       property. Each participating province established procedures on their own that
       comprised three phases: (i) an act of temporary allocation of the house to the
       beneficiary; (ii) renouncing all claims to other properties; and (iii) final title to the
       house. Only about 12% of the beneficiaries have been in the project enough time
       to acquire final title to the house given that the minimum period of tenancy prior
       to titling is from 5-10 years;
   · About 93% of the beneficiaries reported lacking title to their previous place of
       residence attesting to the sharp targeting of the program;
   · Three-quarters of the beneficiaries expressed that their reason for wanting the title
       is "that others cannot take the house away from them" they feel much safer and
       that their quality of life improved;


   Achieved Results


A. The Housing sub-component was properly targeted to the poor and social vulnerable:

   · Only about 10% of the beneficiaries had completed secondary level school and
       about 75% had only completed primary education;

   · About 10% of the beneficiaries reported being unemployed, the rest had to take
       any kind of work to eat;

   · About 80% of the beneficiaries lacked any form of health insurance; and

   · Only about 20% of the beneficiaries did not receive any form of social support

B. The Housing Component has brought social stability for their beneficiaries:

   · Less than 10% of the original occupants of the PPI houses have moved away, the
       rest still occupy their houses that they helped build;

   · About 100 % of the houses have electricity; 99% have a WC within the house;
       95% have running water;

   · The build-up of social capital is considered by the officials as a major benefit of



                                             42

       the PPI housing program; and

C. Beneficiaries were highly satisfied with the Housing Component:

   · About 75% of the beneficiaries are satisfied with the house where they live;

   · About 75% of the beneficiaries who still occupy their house have made
       improvements to the house after they first moved in;

   · The benefits most frequently quoted include: better sanitary services, reduction of
       disease related to dampness or cold; higher self-esteem; less overcrowding; better
       access to schooling and to health posts;

   · Only about 10% of the family members had to change jobs because of the move
       to the PPI housing;

   · About 40% report having had an easier time finding work because of the skills
       acquired in the course of auto-construction of their houses;

   · Overall, 65% of the beneficiaries report improved quality of life after moving to
       the PPI house;

D. There has been a significant reduction of population living in flood-prone areas
as a result of the PPI housing program, even though the study found that no SUPCE
has data to quantify exactly the reduction in flood-prone population, an estimation of the
houses built shows about 30,000 people less vulnerable to flood threats.

   · Only 10% of the beneficiaries in PPI housing report that their houses have been
       flooded;
   · About 60% of the beneficiaries report that the previous flood-prone areas are now
       empty of population;




                                            43

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  44

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following Borrower comments were received by the Bank on December 28, 2006:

1.- In section 7.7, when a reference is made to loan BIRF 3280-AR, the name "Road
Project" is not the correct one, the actual name is "Proyecto de Saneamiento Financiero y
Desarrollo Económico de las Provincias Argentinas".

2.- In section 11, second lesson, the NOA basin study was not undertaken under the loan
4273-AR, as such we believe it should not be inclueded in the report, not only because it
was financed with another loan but also because this point has been already made in the
specific report for that loan.

3.- In section 9, we do not share what it has been presented regarding the operation and
maintenance of works, since there is documentation related to this issue and to the
adequate financing for works.

4.- In section 10.2, we do not share the insatisfactory rating for the Federal Government
Performance, given that the overall project has been implemented in satisfactory manner,
implementing a large number of works, houses and non-structural measures that allowed
to bring forward the issue of flood risk to the agenda.

5.- In section 10.2, the report seems to be critical when it is mentioned that in the last
years more emphasis was given to non-structural measures, when in reality this indicates
that the redressing of the fund allocation and JEMIX exiting made it necessary to allocate
more funds to the works under construction, and also these works were the more
important for the project.




                                             45

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The following comments were provided by the representative of the Japanese Bank for
International Cooperation, on October 5, 2006.

 "An economic crisis hit Argentina in the very middle of the discussion on whether we
should extend the disbursement period [loan disbursement period], which was initially
set to Dec. 31, 2002. Following the declaration of the moratorium after the crisis,
Argentina for the first time failed to honor its debt service to us for the FPP due on
March 15, 2002.

 Faced with Argentine's failure of debt service, we neither canceled disbursement nor
accelerated the debt already delivered immediately since the FPP project was financed
upon the co-financing agreement with the World Bank and there was, to some extent, a
hope for Argentina to prioritize or respect our loan. Therefore, after the first failure we
fully discussed with the Argentina and the World Bank and looked for an effective way
to avoid discontinuing the disbursements, and conditioned our further disbursement upon
performance of its debt service. However, after observing its successive failures of
honoring to its debt services to us, we had to stop further disbursements to the project
based on the Loan Agreement.

 Although the declaration of moratorium was beyond the control of the authority
concerned, we felt a little bit uncomfortable or dissatisfied with the slow speed at which
projects were implemented. Aside from its default, with more effective, better- organized
or well- monitored implementing agency, we might have completed our planned
disbursement amount. Obviously a lesson from the project is that much more attention
should be paid to the agency and its surroundings in advance so as to implement the
project successfully and in a timely manner."




                                             46

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

· "Evaluación social del subprograma de viviendas del PPI" - Social Evaluation of the Flood
Project Housing Sub-component. Study under the direction of Lic. Irene Novacovsky and a team
conformed by Lic. Sandra Dero, Lic. Christian García and Lic. Pablo Gutierrez Ageitos,
February 2006
· "Historia completa de los Subproyectos" Complete Story of the [Flood Protection Project]
Subprojects ­ Draft Gray Intern al report by a World Bank consultant-, June 2006.
· "Evaluación del subcomponente de Refugios" ­ Evaluation of the Shelter Sub-component. By
Ruben Eduardo Cabrera, June 200 6.
· "Viviendas por Autoconstrucción - La Experiencia en el Programa de Protección de
Inundaciones" - Ministerio de Planifica ción Federal, Inversión Publica y Servicios. By Instituto
Internacional de Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo - IIED, America Latina. Dece mber, 2003.




                                               47

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency
Component



Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency
Component




1. Introduction




This annex provides a summary description of the Emergency Component. The
information presented in this annex includes the overall evaluation ratings of the
Emergency Program (not only those components that are were partially funded with
financial resources from the Higher Education Project).




2. Overall Rating




Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome of the entire Emergency project is
satisfactory; the Bank performance rating is satisfactory, and the borrower performance
rating is also satisfactory. The sustainability is rated as satisfactory, and the institutional
development impact is rated as medium.




3. Development Objectives and Design




3.1. Original Objective

The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid
the most deleterious impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with
actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary work, income support and community
activities.




                                             48

In relation to the Health sector component of the Emergency Program (Health
Emergency Program--HEP), the general objective was to help the government to protect
the most vulnerable population and to maintain essential public health programs. These
programs support the functioning of the public hospital network, provide essential drugs
for the most vulnerable, and protect priority public health measures, including
immunizations, disease control and ensuring services related to women's reproductive
health care and prenatal controls, such as anemia prevention, child delivery, newborn
reception, post-partum and child health care, through the provision of pharmaceutical
products, medical supplies and iron-fortified milk.




Bank support for these activities was channeled through existing operations, including:
the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the
Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). In
addition cost savings of Provincial Roads Project (4093-AR), Flood Protection Project
(4117-AR), Provincial Agriculture Development Project (4150AR), Buenos Aires Urban
Transport Project (4163-AR). Savings from Higher Education Reform Loan (Loan 3921-
AR) supported activities under VIGIA only.




The new health components of the Higher Education Reform project were added through
the fifth amendment of 16 October 2002.




3.2. Extensions of the closing date

The overall Emergency Program has been extended until 2005. However the extension of
this program does not affect the resources coming from the Higher Education Reform
Project since 100 percent of the resources (US$ 17.6 million ) have already been
disbursed.




3.3. Original Components




3.3.1. General Information




The original two components were described in a President's Memorandum entitled
Argentina--Proposed Amendment to Restructure the Portfolio to Support the Finance



                                            49

of the Emergency Program and dated 23 September 2002 (R2002-0189). Since this
program consisted of the restructuring of already existing projects there were no SAR
or PAD.

The funds for the Emergency Program in the health sector (Emergencia ­ Salud) were
implemented through two main channels consisting of two previously existing lending
projects in the health sector: the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
(PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). LUSIDA was a third project that was being implemented
in the health sector supporting activities in the HIV / AIDS program in Argentina at the
time of the design of the emergency program. However, given the fact that the project
would be completed by the time of the implementation of the emergency project, this
project was not chosen to be one of the components.

The special emergency circumstances under which the program was developed and
implemented required a complex design to be implemented within a difficult
institutional framework which included various actors: the relevant sectorial and extra-
sectorial projects at the Bank and at the Inter American Development Bank (IADB), the
two projects PROMIN and VIGIA, the International Finance Unit of the Ministry of
Health, Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional- Salud (UFI-S) which was responsible
for the financial management of the funds on behalf of PROMIN and VIGIA, and
finally the departments that traditionally carried out the purchases and acquisitions of
the goods within the Ministry of Health.

Table No. 1 details the savings allocation according to each of the programs.




                           Table No.1

     Bank Loans with Savings Reallocated to the Social
                      Emergency Program

                        (In US$ millions)




                                              50

3.3.2. Health Emergency Program subcomponents




The Health Emergency Program had two subcomponents: a) The Strengthening of
Disease Control Subcomponent implemented through the VIGIA; and b) The Emergency
Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent implemented through the PROMIN.




a) The Strengthening of Disease Control Subcomponent implemented through the VIGIA




The specific objective of the VIGIA component designed to acquire anti-retro viral
therapy was to sustain the reduced mortality rates that have been attained and provide
resources for the public program designed to contain vertical transmission of HIV among
pregnant women in Argentina.




Since 9 January 2002 when a new law was passed, public hospitals, social security
institutions and private health insurances must offer pregnant women the option of
having an HIV test, and if the result is positive to provide appropriate therapy to avoid
vertical transmission to their children. The emergency component supported this public
program to avoid vertical transmission of HIV to newborns.




The subcomponent under the VIGIA project: a) carried out a program of actions for
disease monitoring, control and prevention of tuberculosis, dengue, and other vector
disease control, and hospital infections, through the acquisition and distribution of
medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides; and b) carried out a set of actions for disease
monitoring, control and prevention of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases,
through, inter alia, the provision of anti-retro viral therapy and critical diagnostic supplies
for blood banks and other diagnostic centers.




The procurement arrangements designed to implement the
acquisitions program were:




Vaccines and drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis (US $13.5 million), through direct




                                              51

contracting with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO);

HIV / AIDS drugs (anti-retroviral therapy and antibiotics against opportunistic
infections) and supplies for blood banks (inputs for diagnostic of HIV, hepatitis B and C
and syphilis) (US $10.4 million), through limited international bidding (LIB);

Supplies for vector control programs, laboratory equipment and vehicles (US $10.64
million), through international competitive bidding (ICB);

Medical supplies including prescription drugs (US $1.76 million), through national
competitive bidding (NCB);

Medical supplies including drugs, vaccines and others (US $0.1 million), through
shopping.




b) The Emergency Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent implemented through the
PROMIN




The specific objective of this subcomponent was to improve the services related to
women's reproductive health care and prenatal controls, including anemia prevention,
child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child health care, through the
acquisition of and distribution of medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides.




The activities implemented under the PROMIN (a total amount of US $34 million)
project included:




Prenatal controls and anemia prevention. This activity refers to the provision of medical
controls during pregnancy and early detection and treatment of anemia among pregnant
women.

Child delivery and newborn reception. This activity refers to the medical assistance for
delivery of children and care of newborns.

Post-partum care. This activity refers to the early medical care of women who just have
delivered their babies.

Purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical supplies. This activity refers to the
purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical supplies needed for prenatal controls



                                             52

and anemia, for child delivery, newborn reception and post-partum care.

Purchase of iron-fortified milk for mother and infants. This activity refers to the purchase
of milk enriched with iron an important nutritional supplement for both pregnant women
and infants.




The economic, social and political instability that ensued Argentina's default of its debt
and the devaluation of the currency caused a serious deterioration of the capacity of the
government to sustain essential public health programs. The crisis had a broad impact
across all sectors of public and private institutions. Public health services were
overburdened due to an increasing demand caused by the growth of unemployment. The
rapidly increasing number of individuals without any health insurance coverage in the
years previous to the crisis was compounded by the shock of the crisis in the labor
markets and on household incomes.




Bank support through the health component was planned to provide for about 27 million
vaccinations, such as for hepatitis and polio, as well as give about 3.5 million people
anti-TB vaccines (about 15,000 new cases of TB were identified in 2002, up from 13,000
in 1997, with another 18,000 expected for 2003), and help another 17,200 patients with
AIDS being treated through the public sector. Strengthening support through the
PROMIN program was planned to enhance health and nutrition benefits for the initial
target population of 70,000 poor pregnant women, 55,000 children less than one year old
and 250,000 children ages 2 to 5 years old. In education, the relevant component would
benefit about 4.2 million students from targeted high risks schools, or about half of the
total student population at primary and secondary levels. In addition, the nutrition/
community action component would reach about 350,000 poor indigents and provide
them with a daily meal during the next two years.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs




4.1. Objective

The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid
the most deleterious impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with
actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary work, income support and community
activities. The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory




                                              53

                          Graph No. 1




When Argentina was facing the peak of the economic crisis, infant mortality increased
from 16.2 in 2001 to 16.8 in 2002 (mainly neonatal mortality). This phenomenon not
only meant a break in a steady trend of infant mortality decline but a reversal of it, an
unprecedented case even when compared with poorer countries in the region. The
Emergency ­ Health Program implemented through PROMIN and VIGIA has
contributed to maintain a safety net for the most vulnerable population. Preliminary
analysis of recent data suggests Argentina has started to go back to trends of decreasing
infant mortality rates existing before the crisis (see Graph No.1).




4.2. Outputs

The program has fulfilled its objectives and reached the goals originally set: almost 8
million doses of anti-tuberculosis vaccine (BCG) have been distributed and administered,
that is 4.5 million more than originally planned. Combined anti-retroviral drug treatments
were distributed and timely received by 19,500 individuals, which represents 2,500 more



                                              54

than the original goal of 17,000. The fortified milk component has benefited a combined
total of 1.3 million children less than one year old and pregnant women, which represents
more than 280 percent of the proposed coverage goals.




It is important to point out that this success is due in large part to the diminishing price of
the relevant drugs and other goods acquired through this program, a situation that is
related to a diversity of factors observed in various bidding process, such as the
purchases of vaccines through PAHO, the acquisition of generic drugs instead of brand
names, and/or the participation of more providers in the bidding process. The application
of Bank procurement rules for the acquisition of goods and services for the PROMIN
project introduced new standards for acquisition and purchasing practices in the health
sector. New competitive biddings opened up the market and allowed prices to reach new
equilibrium conditions reflecting more competitive practices. Taking advantage of these
positive market effects and new exchange rates allowed the program to be more effective
in reaching its original and emergency objectives.




                           Table No.2

Disbursements of Emergency Program Health Component
                            1999-2004




                                              55

Additionally, by taking advantage of the new conditions created by the new Sexual and
Reproductive Health (SRH) law passed in 2002 the project supported Sexual and
Reproductive Health activities deemed very important by the Ministry of Health.
Argentina did not have a comprehensive National Program for Sexual and reproductive
health care and by 2003 the law had not yet been implemented. Within this context the
project help strengthen the existing team in order to create a comprehensive program. As
a consequence of these actions, the Program is currently being implemented in all the
provinces (whereas it originally only existed at a smaller scale in four provinces).




The EPH program has already reached a level of disbursement of 90 percent of the
financial resources that were originally destined for this program. Furthermore, an
estimated level of 98 percent will be reached by the end of June 2005 (see Graph and
Table No. 1).




                                            56

5. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome




Prices of important medicines and supplies kept artificially high by closed markets and
other public purchasing practices




Along with other structural limitation of purchasing practices in the public sector the
relatively high prices of many health care goods such as pharmaceuticals and others
placed important economic constraints on decision makers on the capacity to acquire
such products. The purchase of important pharmaceuticals like pediatric medicines, anti-
retrovirals, condoms and other inputs for the public health services were limited by
prevailing practices that placed important barriers on the entrance of new providers of
these health care products.




6. Sustainability




The government of Argentina has been planning and implementing a gradual phasing out
of the Emergency program by:




Progressively incorporating the most critical inputs for important basic public health that
were supported by the Emergencia ­ Salud Program in the national budget since the
fiscal year 2004 (i.e. vaccines have already been acquired regularly through the national
budget during this fiscal year as before the crisis).




Encouraging and supporting the provinces to incorporate back into the provincial budgets
other important inputs necessary to sustain public health programs such as pesticides for
vector control. Some provinces have already started this process.




Planning and designing a transitional project that supports the complete phase out of the



                                             57

Emergencia - Salud Program within a longer term strategy of improvement and reform of
public policies that address important basic public health goods. Currently the
authorities are also exploring the possibility that such project could be carried out in
partnership with the Bank.




7. Bank and borrower performance




7.1. Bank Lending

The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The program objectives were closely aligned
with the crisis response of the Bank and also with the new objectives defined by Bank for
the Social Emergency Program. The development of the emergency program for the
health sector has made an efficient use of existing financial resources, on going projects
and local institutional capacity in order to provide a rapid response to the state of social
emergency in which Argentina was subsumed. The design of the program, although
complex, has proven to be highly effective in order to achieve the proposed development
objectives. Also, the Bank's response was well coordinated with other agencies such as
the Inter American Development Bank (IADB) and other local and international
institutions. This broad coalition of efforts was focused on tackling the most urgent needs
of the government with the goal of protecting the poorest groups of the population and its
human capital.




7.2. Supervision

The supervision of the project was of high technical quality, using efficiently the
combination of available human resources. The Bank carried out a total of six
supervision missions to VIGIA and PROMIN during the implementation of the
emergency program. In each of these missions a special time was devoted to analyze the
progress of the emergency program as related to the health sector. Additionally, three
missions were carried out especially devoted to supervise the Emergency Program.




8. Lessons learned




Effective response to crisis needs to be built on national and international coordination.
The major socio-economic crisis that Argentina faced posed a serious challenge for the
government and for the Bank to provide support to protect the most detrimental effects of



                                              58

the crisis among poor and indigent households. The concerted actions of international
organizations and government focusing on selected objectives aimed to protect key
human capital resources proved to be of the utmost importance in provide effective
assistance.




Crisis response can be more effective and rapid if built upon existing institutions and on-
going portfolio projects. Working within the framework of existing organizations and
programs such as PROMIN, VIGIA and UFI-S permitted the consolidation and
improvement of an already existing institutional capacity within the Ministry of Health.
The selection of key personnel that was able to work closely and understood the
mechanics not only of projects and procedures within the health sector but also within
other governmental institutions such as the Ministry of Economics and other important
public sector stakeholders was of great importance to achieve the objectives of the
program. A crisis can also serve as an opportunity for introducing important policy
changes with longer lasting consequences such as is the case of the introduction of the
new reproductive health programs. The evaluation of potential cost saving strategies may
allow to introduce new practices that can reduce drastically cost of important public
health programs such as was the case of the savings obtained after the decision to
purchase of generic drugs for the anti-retroviral therapies.




Trust among major actors responding to crisis is crucial. Despite all the tensions and
constraints that such major crisis imposed on the government and the Bank, it is
important to create an environment of mutual trust and understanding from the beginning
in order to facilitate the implementation of the program, the early detection of obstacles
and the proposition of feasible solutions that can be mutually agreed upon.




9. Partner comments on the performance of the Bank




9.1. Preparation

The extremely efficient and rapid response by the Bank's officers was a key contribution
in support of the governments' efforts to avoid the worst effects of the crisis in the health
sector. Several identification and preparation missions led to a project design that took
advantage of the UFI-S in order to develop fast-track negotiation processes and to carry
out the implementation of the entire project.




                                             59

9.2. Implementation

The flexibility shown by the Bank in order to make it possible some exceptions given the
exceptional circumstances that the country was facing (i.e. purchasing of vaccines
through PAHO).




The government commends the creativeness in the design of the mechanisms (special
accounts type B) that allowed the concurrent disbursement of funds of the same loan for
the regular activities of the project (from which the funds had been reallocated) and for
the emergency related activities. The same advantages of the disbursement mechanisms
were found in the design of separate financial reports for the funds of the original project
and the part destined for the Emergencia related activities and their corresponding
auditing processes.




A negative factor in launching the project were the delays in taking the necessary legal
steps for the amendment to be finally accepted and effective. Another negative aspect at
the beginning of the implementation process was the delay in the responses to the no
objection requests and needed reports (i.e. environmental analysis) due to the innovative
nature of the project and the burden of the work load that representatives of the Bank
faced vis-à-vis the complexity of the operation and the highly complex circumstances
within which the project was being developed.




                                             60

MAP




       61

