Report No. PIC500
Project Name                   Argentina-Flood Protection Project (@#)
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Infrastructure and Urban Development
Project ID                     ARPA6052
Borrower                       Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency            Ministerio del Interior
Secretaria de Asistencia para la Reforma
Economica Provincial
Mr. Juan Antonio Zapata
Secretario para la Reforma Economica
Provincial
Hipolito Yrigoyen 340, Piso 5,
Oficina 5076
(1086) Buenos Aires , Capital Federal
Argentina
Telephone:   (54-1) 342-1030
Fax:   (54-1) 342-7395
Date PID Prepared              November 28, 1995 (Initial PID dated 1994)
Tentative Appraisal Date       January 1996
Tentative Board Date           December 11, 1996
I.   Country/Sector Background.   Torrential rainfall in the Paran   and
Paraguay River Basins in 1992, produced massive flooding, seriously
damaging infrastructure in seven Argentine provinces and requiring large
scale evacuation of their residents. These events capped an unusual
decade: five of the ten most severe floods recorded in the 20th century
have occurred since 1983. A recent Bank study (An Analysis of Flooding
in the Paran /Paraguay River Basin, September 1993) of this apparent
bunching found that Basin flooding was both more frequent and more
severe in the latter part of the 1900s than previously. This study
concluded that changes in precipitation rates and patterns are by far
the most important explanatory factors in the observed changes in
streamflow. Independent consultants concur with these findings and
conclusions. A Bank financed Flood Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-
AR) is helping to recover the damaged infrastructure. Financing is for
the rehabilitation of the most urgent transport and social facilities,
as well as rehabilitation of existing flood control facilities.
II. A study of past floods in the Basin concluded that investments in
flood protection are justified in comparison with emergency-type
rehabilitation actions. The study, which set the basis for the proposed
project, also produced a mapping of the region demonstrating varying
degree of risk and recommendations for its zoning in relation to
economic values.    The study took into consideration the Basin's
conditions, and the lessons of global experience indicate that it would
be inadvisable to attempt to entirely mitigate the effects of future
severe floods or to control flows through large "structural" works.     In
several provinces, there has been excessive population, commercial, and



other development in many areas that are highly vulnerable to flood
damage. The authorities appreciate that in these and some less risky
areas past capital works have kindled unrealistic expectations of flood
protection. This has actually increased--rather than diminished--the
actual risks. The authorities also share other nations' perceptions
that dikes, dams, levees, etc., in fact, have deterred flood plains from
performing their natural flood control functions.
III. For this reason, the Government has decided to adopt a new strategy
of: (i) investment in flood protection works only in the most important
economic and socially vulnerable areas (based on thorough risk
analyses); (ii) initiation and tighter administration of stronger
restrictions on land usage to discourage unwise development of sensitive
areas leading to land owners to seek private flood insurance; (iii)
stricter adherence to environmental assessments and safeguards; (iv)
upgrading preparedness for and dealing with flood emergencies in areas
in which protective structures are not environmentally or economically
justified, including expansion of shelters, construction of safer
housing, enhanced flood warning and civil defense systems; and (v)
making institutional improvements to effect and sustain these changes.
IV. Project Objectives. With the completion of the repairs in sight
(funded under the Flood Rehabilitation Project), the Bank would now
assist the Government to restore more fully the assets lost in the
recent severe flooding and in strengthening national and provincial
resources for dealing with future recurrences. The specific objectives
would be to enhance provincial capacity to deal with periodic flooding
by upgrading their flood preparedness and mitigation systems, as well as
strengthening coordination within the Basin. The main emphases would be
on providing the best economic and technical flood-protection to the
most important areas, and on developing good institutional mechanisms to
sustain them. The project also would help create the legal and
institutional framework for each province to have a well-defined
strategy to cope with recurrent floods, including preparation and
implementation of master plans for flood defense systems, and actions
targeted on areas in which flood protection works are not economically
or environmentally justified.
V.   Project Description.   The project would support the Government's
Flood Protection Program. It would include the following components:
(a) Structural Measures: Consisting of construction works to
protect important areas of the flood plain against flood effects. It
would include fortification of flood defenses in geographic areas with
strong economic activity and greatest vulnerability to serious repeated
flood damage. These investments would not attempt to control flows of
the major rivers (Paran , Paraguay and Uruguay). Instead, they would
protect the cities against floods caused by the rivers through works
that would avoid waters to invade the cities without interfering with
the rivers. Works would concentrate on raising bridges, improvement of
existing and construction of new drainage channels, embankments and
small flood control works. These investments would follow the master
plans developed for each flood-prone area (approximately 79 percent of
base costs).
-2-



(b) Non-Structural Measures: Consisting of:
(bl) New Institutional Framework: Technical assistance would be
provided to help create and implement an institutional framework in each
province to deal with recurrent floods. It would result in: (i) plans
to rationalize land usage in flood-prone areas including possible
incentives to private flood insurance; and (ii) creation of a unit that
would coordinate civil defense, flood warning, consultation on hydraulic
works, maintenance of flood defense facilities, and provision of
environmental safeguard related to flooding issues (approximately 1
percent of base costs);
(b2) Flood Preparedness and Civil Defense: For vulnerable areas
not considered to warrant further investment in structural defenses, the
proposed assistance would provide shelters (multi-purpose installations)
and improved housing for lower income families in flood-prone zones.
The housing component would follow the same principles of the previous
project, providing funding for a voluntary program of self-construction
of houses by the community. Improvements in the civil defense
arrangements are also envisaged (approximately 13 percent of base
costs);
(b3) Early Flood Warning System: This component would aim to
ensure the development of a more adequate and extensive flood warning
system linked to the National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and
Technology (INCYTH) and provincial systems.    It would include a new
hydro metering system, new computational equipment, new software, new
communication system, and the creation of local flood warning system in
each province (approximately 1 percent of base costs);
(b4) Project Implementation and Administration: Technical
assistance would be provided to help implement the project and carry out
a related training program for improving the provinces' capabilities in
flood forecasting, early warning, civil defense and environmental
activities. The project would include consultant services for the
design of the flood defense works, supervision of construction and
environmental activities (approximately six percent of base costs).
VI. Project Financing. Total financing requirements (including US$65
million of interest during construction) are estimated at US$465
million. Foreign exchange costs are calculated at US$300 million.
These figures (in June 1995 prices) would be refined during appraisal.
The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would finance some 43t of total
financing requirements. The tentative financing plan envisages that the
Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) would provide cofinancing of US$100
million (or 22t of total financing requirements), with the Government
and provinces dividing the balance (US$165 million). The appraisal team
would determine if retroactive financing is required.
VII. Project Implementation. The implementation arrangements would
remain essentially the same as those governing the ongoing Flood
Rehabilitation Project. The proposed project would be overseen by the
Ministry of Interior's Provincial Reform Secretariat (SAREP). The "Sub-
Unidad Central de Coordinacion para la Emergencia (SUCCE) ," a subsidiary
unit of SAREP's Central Executing Unit (CEU), would manage the
- 3 -



operation. SUCCE would supervise and coordinate the provinces' own
central executing units (Sub-unidades Provinciales de Coordinacion para
Emergencia - SUPCEs), which would continue to remain responsible for
sub-project formulation and implementation. In view of the provinces'
disparate implementation capabilities and performance, two annual
reviews at an early stage of implementation would be held to determine
if the initial provincial allocation require revision. This review
would allow possible transfer of funding from slow-moving provinces to
projects not initiated in better performing provinces.
VIII. Project Sustainability. The investments in civil works would
aim at protecting existing infrastructure. Their sustainability would
be enhanced by the proposed project conditions governing future
operations and maintenance of these facilities. The required new local
laws and river-basin-wide coordinating arrangements should help
strengthen the provincial governments' concern for, capacities to
regulate, and resources devoted to flood preparedness and mitigation
systems. The proposed carryover of the experience and competent staff
of SUCCE and the SUPCEs, should provide strong grounds for sustaining
project works. The amount of investment in each province and the
financing plan (with JEXIM participation) were taken into consideration
to adapt provincial counterpart requirements to their financial
implementation capacities to assure sustainability of implementation.
IX. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. While
the rationale and short-term nature of disaster remediation activities
do not equally apply in this case, some of their characteristics are
nonetheless pertinent. In this connection, experience of past recovery
assistance has shown a number of useful lessons:
(a) Reconstruction by itself is not enough. Hence, measures must
be taken to reduce the risk of future disaster damage as well as to
safeguard people at risk. The proposed project is directed to help
lessen this vulnerability.
(b) The June 1993 OED audit of the Mexico Earthquake Rehabilitation
Project pointed out the importance of quick responses to disaster.
However, this review and the March 1994 audit of the Sfax Flood
Protection Project (Tunisia) stressed that it was also important to take
account of other elements that otherwise might be overlooked and, which
might reduce long-term benefits. In the Tunisian case, the acceleration
of works design resulted in inadequate attention to such underlying
problems as the disposal of storm water. By contrast, the proposed
Argentine project is based on an early Government appreciation of the
inherent risks entailed in these potential tradeoffs. Therefore, as
noted, in parallel with the Flood Rehabilitation repair works, the
authorities promptly undertook activities to address the basic causes of
the accelerated Paran Basin flooding and how best to contain it. The
proposed project is aimed at these long-term issues.
X.   Program Objective and Poverty Categories.    The project aims to help
the environmentally sustainable development of the provinces (Category
EN) by avoiding the economic losses caused by frequent floods. It would
also stimulate employment generation in the construction sector, and
improve physical and social infrastructure. Project implementation is
- 4 -



expected to generate about 68,500 person-years of construction
employment, or the equivalent of 13,500 persons permanently employed
during the five year project period. Other sectors would also benefit
from new jobs in transport, goods supply and other services to the
project. The housing component, in particular, would improve
considerably the living conditions of their inhabitants, mostly lower-
income segments of the population.
XI. Participatory Approach. Project preparation took into
consideration consultations with local communities and all
municipalities. The consultants who prepared the Master Plans were
responsible for gathering data and obtaining feed-back from the
communities involved. The SUPCEs also made contacts with all
municipalities in the affected areas. Public hearings were held in the
areas in which works are envisioned. They were very productive,
resulting in modifications of the original engineering solution in some
locations due to suggestions from local communities (e.g. in Gualeguay,
Resistencia and Goya). Project implementation will also seek strong
communitary participation, especially in the installation of the
shelters of multiple use for the community and the housing component
based on self construction in communitary groups.
XII. Environment.    Positive environmental consequences are envisaged
from the fuller restoration of damaged health, water, sewerage, and
housing facilities, as well as the Bank-encouraged fuller public
participation, especially regarding environmental aspects of flood
protection proposals. A regional environmental assessment for the whole
Basin was carried out in accordance with terms of reference approved by
the Bank. A seminar for public consultation on the project and for
comments on the preliminary environmental assessment report was held in
Buenos Aires in May 1995. The seminar included participation of
provincial public entities and national and provincial NGOs. Every sub-
project included in the project satisfactorily met environmental
analysis as part of its preparation. The final environmental assessment
report is concluded and will be discussed in a seminar open to the
public. The final report is available to the general public in Buenos
Aires at "Biblioteca del Honorable Congreso de la Nacion Argentina"
(Calle Alsina 1816 - Piso 1) and in Washington, D.C., at the Bank Public
Information Center. A summary is attached.
XIII.     Project Benefits.   Major benefits would accrue from the fuller
restoration of the damaged infrastructure in one of the most productive
areas on the country and the area closest to Brazil and Paraguay, two of
Argentina's partners in MERCOSUR. The reduction of the frequency and
range of flood-caused damage would improve the efficiency of the
productive and commercial sectors in this area and reduce the damage to
transport facilities, thus facilitating Argentina's competitiveness
within MERCOSUR. The project works also would reduce health hazards and
waterborne diseases in flood-prone areas. Other benefits would include
the provision of substantially more flood-secure housing and the
generation of sizeable civil works and construction employment. The
economic rate of return is expected to be 38 percent (to be confirmed
during appraisal).
XIV. Project Risks. There are four possible main risks: (a) time and
- 5 -



cost overruns; (b) inadequate management and control due to weak and
bureaucratic public entities in the provinces; (c) possible abuses in
the housing component; (b) lack of funds for project implementation.
During preparation, steps were taken to address those issues and design
suitable safeguards. The major risk concerns project timely
implementation. Therefore, project management was streamlined based on
the experience gained in risk management during the previous project.
In this connection, the project would be implemented by the same units
(SUCCE in the central government and SUPCEs in the provinces) that are
successfully implementing the Rehabilitation Project. Additionally, a
full-time, independent supervising engineer reporting to SAREP and to
the Bank would again be hired. Adequate funding for technical
assistance was also included in the project to help reduce
implementation risks. The housing component was designed following the
excellent experience of use of vouchers for acquisition of material used
in the previous project. The same management systems would be used (not
a single case of abuse has occurred in the previous project). Also
profiting from the experience of the previous project when some
provinces have confronted difficulties in obtaining counterpart funds,
cofinancing is being pursued to design a financing plan of the project
which would permit the provinces to ensure sufficient resources for
project works. And the afore-mentioned contingent arrangements for
possible transfer of funding from slow-moving provinces to better
performing provinces, should contribute to effective project
implementation.
XV. Contact Point. Contacts on the proposed project should be directed
to:
Note:     Environmental Assessment Summary is available from the Public
Information Center upon request.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



