Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15354-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
October 29, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Peso (Arg$)
US$1.0 = Arg$1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEU            Central Execution Unit of SSAP
DNRH           Direcci6n Nacional de Recursos Hfdricos
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GIS            Geographical Information System
GPP            Gross Provincial Product
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Interamerican Development Bank
IERR           Intemal Economic Rate of Retum
INCYTH         Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hfdrica
National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology
JEXIM          Export-Import Bank of Japan
MERCOSUR    Commom Market Agreement among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Govemmental Organization
OSN            Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n
POM            Project Operational Manual
SSAP           Sub-Secretaria de Asistencia a las Provincias
Under Secretariat for Assistance to the Provinces
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SUCCE          Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia
SUPCE          Sub-Unidad Provincial de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia



ARGENTINA
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................. iii
1. THE REGION .......................................1
A. Background ......................................                                                                    1
Geographic and Climatic Features of Argentina ...................... 1
Flood Zones and Frequency .................................. 1
Demographic, Economic, and Social Factors ........................ 3
B. Institutional Framework for Flood Control ......................... 4
Legal Framework ......................................  4
Institutional Framework ..................................... 8
2. FLOODS IN THE RIO DE LA PLATA BASIN ....................... 11
A. Background ......................................                                                                  11
Characteristics of the Basin ................................. 11
Past Floods in the Basin ................................... 13
The 1992 Flood ......................................   15
B. Future Prospects: A River Basin Approach ........................ 18
Improved Management of the Basin .......................... 18
Structural Measures .................................... 21
Nonstructural Measures .................................. 22
C. Past Bank Lending ...................................... 24
Previous Bank Involvement .................................. 24
Lessons from Completed and Ongoing Projects ..................... 24
3. THE PROJECT ......................................                                                                        27
Project Origin ......................................     27
Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................... 27
Project Objectives ...................................... 27
Project Description ...................................... 28
Project Costs ......................................                                                              31
Financing Plan ......................................     33
Status of Project Preparation ................................. 34
Implementation Arrangements ................................ 35
Monitoring and Reporting .................................. 36
This report is based on the findings of an appmisal mission consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Armando Araujo (Task Manager,
LA1IU) Rita Rivas-Gonzalez (Consultant, LA1IU), Herman Nissenbaum (Consultant), Juan David Quintero (Environmental
Specialist (LATEN), Luis Carlos Garcia Lozano (Consultant, Environmental Aspects) which visited Argentina in December
1995. Mr. William Mayville, Consultant, also assisted in report prepamation. Peer reviewen were Messn. Klas Ringskog
(LATAD), and Abel Mejia (LAIIU). Mr. Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser (LAIDR), reviewed the document. Mmes. Iris
Moreno and Margarita Lannon assisted in the production of the report. The Managing Division Chief and Department
Director ame Asif Faiz and Gobind T. Nankani, respectivcly.



Accounts and Audits .            ....   .................................    36
Procurement   ..............................  .......  ....                                              . 37
Disbursements   ..........................  .....  ......  ...                                           . 40
Project Benefits .......................  .....  .....  .....  ..                                        . 40
Economic Impacts  .....................  ....  ....  .....  ....                                          . 41
Project Sustainability   .................  ...  ....  ...  ...  ....  ..                                . 42
Program  Objective and Poverty Categories  ........  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 43
Environmental Impacts  ...............  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                                 . 43
Participatory Approach  ...............  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                                . 44
Program  Risks and Safeguards   ...........  ..  .                    ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..    . 44
Financial Benefits  .....................  ....  ....  .....  ....                                        . 45
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 47
ANNEXES
1.     Legal and Institutional Framework              ........................ 51
2.     The Halcrow  Study   .................................. 55
3.     Provincial Master Plans ................................ 59
4.     Shelters and Housing   ................................. 79
5.     Environmental Assessment .............................. 87
6.     Project Description and Costs  ............................ 97
7.     Project Operational Manual (POM) ........................  107
8.     Supervision Plan  ...................................  109
9.     Implementation Plan .................................  111
10.   Economic Analysis   .................................  119
11.    Community Participation  ..............................  125
12.   Project Monitoring and Auditing   .........................  127
13.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   ...                      ......  131
MAPS IBRD No. 27719, 27720, 27721 and 27722



- iii -
ARGENTINA
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Argentine Republic
Implementing      Ministry of Interior, Beneficiary Provinces and the city of Buenos
Agency:           Aires
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of the Interior, the Provinces of Buenos Aires, Chaco,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones, Santa Fe, and the city of
Buenos Aires
Poverty:          Not Applicable
Amount:           US$200.0 million (including up to US$20 million of retroactive financing)
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
Commitment        0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
Fee:              less any waiver
Onlending         Most proceeds of the loan would be onlent to provincial governments
Terms:            and to the city of Buenos Aires from the national government under the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. The provinces would assume
the foreign exchange risk and the full cost of the central executing unit
(SUCCE). Each province's revenue-sharing funds from the national
government would serve as a guarantee for repayment of subsidiary loans
Financing
Plan:             See para. 3.16
Estimated
Rate of Return:    20.4%
Maps:             IBRD No. 27719, 27720, 27721 and 27722
Project
Identification No.: AR-PA-6052
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief: Asif Faiz
Task Manager: Armando Araujo






ARGENTINA
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
1. THE REGION
A. Background
Geographic and Climatic Features of Argentina
1.1   Argentina is South America's second largest country. It consists of four distinct
geographic regions covering about 2,800,000 km2. Also, its length is impressive: its Atlantic
coastline stretches over 2,850 km; the northern border with Paraguay extends over 1,500 km;
and the river border with Brazil is estimated at 1,000 km.
1.2   Distinct variations in terrain and climatic zones occur beginning with its slope from the
Andes on its western boundary (including the highest peak on the continent) to the Atlantic
seaboard in the east. The Andean "cordillera" bordering Chile forms nearly one-quarter of the
country. It is low and deeply glaciated, but includes a high, largely dry plateau. Its northern
region encompasses the Gran Chaco, a warm lowland area of tropical forest alternating with
broad plains. Elevations in this region vary from 600 to 800 feet above sea level. In the central
seaboard are rich steppes (pampas) comprising the most extensive plain in the southern
hemisphere.  Patagonia's plateaus extend over the rest of the country.  This region is
distinguished by its colder climate, semiaridity, and continuous winds.
1.3   Although climates vary, the southern temperate zone is pervasive: tropical in the north,
temperate in the central region, cold in the south, humid in the east and northeast, and semiarid
in the west and southwest. The large northern plain is subtropical, with the Gran Chaco posting
the highest temperatures in South America, between 49 and 50 degrees centigrade. At the other
extreme, conditions are subarctic in the southern-most areas, and subpolar in parts of Patagonia.
High atmospheric humidity dominates the subtropical area while dry air generally characterizes
the remaining regions--except for the southern Andean cordillera.
1.4   There is no mountain chain of sufficient size to shield air movements in this part of the
southern hemisphere; consequently, winds flow freely from Ecuador to the South Pole and back,
producing abrupt temperature changes. Another important phenomenon is the incidence of
rainfall above historic levels in cycles of 10 years or more.
Floods Zones and Frequency
1.5   While two-thirds of the country is essentially dry, Argentina experiences heavy rainfall
largely concentrated in the east and the southern "cordillera" (the latter recording over 3,000 mm
of rain annually). Rainfall also has ranged between 1,700 and 1,800 mm in northern part of
the Province of Misiones and as high as 2,000 mm in the northwest. The most striking rainfall



gradients occur in the Patagonian Andes and in areas of intensive rains in the northwest--where
annual totals range between 2,000 mm and 100 mm over the same distance and in the same
direction. During winter, heavy rain may occur over the lower watershed of the Rio de la Plata,
which strongly influences the weather in the Province of Buenos Aires because of cyclones over
Mesopotamia and associated strong winds from the southeast. These "sudestadas"-- or unusually
heavy rainstorms lasting several days--frequently impede drainage of the La Plata River and its
streams, and often contribute to widespread and severe flooding.
1.6   Rainfall totals vary greatly. More rainfall can occur in a single month of a "wet" year
than during the entire 12 months of a "dry" year. At times rainfall has been heavy enough to
inundate large areas of the pampa and Gran Chaco. The rainfall in northeastern Argentina has
totalled between 12 mm and 150 mm in a day; but monthly amounts of 750 mm have been
recorded in subtropical Misiones. This province (along with some Atlantic costal zones) is also
reported to have more than 100 rainy days per year, which is twice that of Buenos Aires.
1.7   Rainfall is most intense in areas close to eastern Paraguay. More than 30 days per year
precipitation is greater than 10 mm, compared to less than 5 days on average in the dry western
regions. In addition, the rain density (rain totals/rain days) in the northeastern region exceeds
20 mm/day during the wettest months, with a yearly maximum in 24 hours of 70 mm--both of
which greatly exceed levels in other regions. Moreover, the subtropical region experiences more
thunderstorm activity, averaging 50 or more days a year.
1.8  In essence, about one-fourth of the national territory is repeatedly flooded. Moreover,
flood effects are commonly judged as extremely severe in the northeast, the pampa pasture, and
metropolitan Buenos Aires, which conforms to regional patterns. Latin America overall
historically has experienced many natural, especially water-related disasters (perhaps second only
to Asia); however, only recently has sustained public attention been mobilized and led to a
national program to defend against the consequences of flooding.
1.9   Previous inattention to flooding as an issue to be addressed stems largely from the
implicit belief in the rich natural resources of the country and lack of population pressure.
Argentines also perceive themselves to be a "baja cuenca" country, that is, substantially subject
to higher waters than neighboring nations because much of the country is low-lying; in addition,
floods have not taken many lives. Moreover, hurricanes, tornados, seaquakes, and the like have
not been important factors, and the relatively few vulnerable volcanic and seismic zones are far
from population centers. Another factor is that much of the population has a relatively narrow
environmental perspective, reflecting the country's urban bias--even though an important
segment of its economy is rooted in agriculture and related industries.
1.10 Gradually, this inattention to natural disasters has begun to change in the wake of more
frequent and higher floods. Also, significant migration to urban areas now exposes much larger
numbers of people and important economic activity to the consequences of floods. When Buenos
Aires was founded in 1580, buildings were deliberately located on highlands distant from
historically flooded zones; however, that settlement now represents only 10% of the capital city.



- 3 -
1.11  Exacerbating the region's vulnerability to floods and their aftermath, conservative
population projections at critical points in this century led to serious underdimensioning of major
drainage and sewer construction in the city of Buenos Aires. The result is that more 10 million
people rely on a system meant to serve only a tenth of this number, a large proportion of whom
live in low-lying flood plains.
Demographic, Economic, and Social Factors
1.12 Argentina became heavily urbanized before World War I, and remains one of Latin
America's most urban countries. In 1991, 87% of its population lived in urban areas of 2,000
or more people, mirroring a steady decline in the rural population (8% per year since 1980).
Most people live in five highly urbanized jurisdictions--Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Mendoza, Santa
Fe, and the Municipality of Buenos Aires--where national economic activity is concentrated.
Significantly, population growth rates and gross provincial product (GPP) of less urbanized
provinces began to exceed those of the "big five" during the 1970s and 1980s. Total share of
GPP for the latter declined from 82.5% to 73.1 % between 1970 and 1989 as other provinces
become more economically important.
1.13 Provincial demographic, economic, and social diversity is exemplified by the differences
among the seven Parana Basin provinces which would participate in the proposed project:
Buenos Aires, Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones, and Santa Fe. Buenos Aires
and Santa Fe provinces collectively account for 16% of the national territory, while Formosa
and Misiones each only comprise between 1 % and 3 %. Nearly half of the population lives in
Buenos Aires and Santa F. The residents of the other five Basin provinces total only 12%.
On the other hand, relatively small Misiones (with less than 29,800 km2) has a comparatively
high population density of 26.5 persons/km2, more than twice the national average (11.7).
1.14 Economically and socially, Buenos Aires and Santa Fe are much more advanced than the
other Basin provinces. Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, and Misiones (constituting most of the
northeast region) spread across one of the most economically underdeveloped areas of the
country. Entre Rios also has relatively small output and population, and even greater incidence
of poverty. The combined GPP of these five provinces represents less than 9 % of total national
GPP and only 27% of that of Buenos Aires Province. Not surprisingly, Chaco, Corrientes,
Formosa, and Misiones produced less than 4 percent of total 1994 exports, while Misiones
ranked twenty-first out of twenty-four provinces in per capita income. As for infrastructure
services, a 1993 national assessment found much worse street paving, water and sewer mains,
and street lighting in these five poorer provinces.
1.15 Unemployment figures in 1994 in the (more rural) Basin provinces was as high as 12.4 %,
compared to 8.7% in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area. Partly on this account, employment
in the Basin area appears excessively dependent on the public sector as the employer of last
resort. May 1995 statistics show that the ratio of civil servants to population in the Province
of Formosa is 80 per 1,000 residents--almost four times greater than Buenos Aires--with
Misiones at almost 41 per 1,000 and Corrientes 51 per 1,000. Average provincial wage levels



- 4 -
last year were as low as US$695 equivalent, compared to US$1,187 equivalent in the Buenos
Aires metropolitan area.
1.16 Poverty also worsened between 1990 and 1992, with the proportion of the poor located
in the northern provinces rising from 24% to 29%. The highest rates (averaging 40%) were
registered in these provinces as well, along with the slowest rates of poverty reduction. The
1992 indices of poverty for city dwellers in Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, and Misiones were in
the 31.7% to 44.2% range, compared to the national average of 22.6. In the same year, over
13% of northeastern area residents lived in poverty compared to 11.3% in 1990. The poor
constitute over 30% of the populations of Corrientes, Formosa, and Misiones.
1.17 Parana Basin infant mortality rates in 1992 exceeded 33.5 per 1,000 live births, compared
to less than 15 per 1,000 in metropolitan Buenos Aires. Fewer children between the age of 5
and 12 attended school in the northeastern area in 1991 than in all but one other province
(Santiago del Estero), the same as in 1980, with the schooling rate among students between ages
13 and 17 also showing no improvement. The same was true for housing without water or flush
toilets. Between on-half and two-thirds of inhabitants in four of these provinces in 1991 lived
in unsatisfactory housing, compared to about 5% in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area.
1.18  Decades of underfunding of the country's infrastructure has led to a steep decline in
public assets and quality of services. The 1994 World Development Report alluded to this
deterioration, citing Argentina as having one of the lowest levels of infrastructure quality and
quantity among upper-middle-income nations. The Government now plans to rehabilitate and
expand the capital stock by raising the level of gross capital investment from US$6.6 billion
equivalent in 1993/94 to US$8.9 billion in 1996. These plans call for over US$425 million to
be invested in provincial water projects and US$840 million for provincial road works over two
years.
1.19 The multiyear investment program, "Argentina en Crecimiento 1995-99," seeks to
underwrite this effort. It includes several transport activities to facilitate Parand Basin province
exports--mainly from Corrientes and Misiones--to markets in Paraguay and Brazil, improved
rural roads within these provinces, and, importantly, flood protection works to defend productive
assets throughout the northeast. This strategy will address many of the current development
constraints in this region.
B. Institutional Framework for Flood Control
Legal Framework
1.20 Background. Addressing and overcoming the foregoing problems inherently involves
issues regarding the role of the provinces. These issues are deeply rooted, originating in the
historic divisions between Argentines who espoused a federal over a centralized political system.
Such differences led to a sharp split between the country's coastal and interior populations for
more than 50 years after the nation gained its independence.



- 5 -
1.21 Ultimately, Argentina chose a federal system that separates powers and responsibilities
among different segments and levels of government. The founding Constitution divided
govemmental authority among the legislature, executive, and the judiciary. It also allocated
certain powers between federal and provincial officials. Differentiations however were based
on the general concept that power emanates from the provinces, which, until adoption of the
1853 Federal Constitution, were relatively autonomous politically.  The provinces then
relinquished numerous functions, with the federal authorities authorized to establish general laws
and regulations. On the other hand, the provinces retained substantial self-governance powers
safeguarded by their respective constitutions, as well as all powers not specifically relinquished.
In practice, this serves to limit the Central Government's scope for independent action.
1.22  Legal Framework.  Each province maintains control over its natural resources and is
responsible for preserving and protecting their quality (Article 124, Federal Constitution).
However, the division of powers does not vest complete control in the hands of any single
governmental jurisdiction. The Federal Constitution authorizes central government actions to
foster development throughout the country--even where provincial jurisdiction would otherwise
apply. Different interpretations of the relevant clause of the Constitution (known as the
"progress" clause) and various provincial constitutions created ambiguities with regard to
responsibilities for financing and delivery of public services. Also, Article 41 calls for national
norms to achieve at least minimum standards to protect rivers, including their banks and beds.
1.23 The result is a somewhat fragmented definition of ownership rights governing Argentina's
water resources, among others. National officials regulate water use within international
boundaries, the federal territory, or in interprovincial commerce. Provincial officials govern
water resources within their jurisdictions. However, there are also overlapping responsibilities
with little coordination among federal, provincial, and municipal authorities.
1.24 This has hindered water resource management and recently caused the Government to
reexamine sector legislation.  Consultant studies identified key deficiencies in the legal
framework, particularly problems related to floods and similar emergencies. A substantial
number and variety of provincial laws were identified that govern the regulation of water and
natural resources related to it. Typically, they fail to define clear geographic boundaries for
when to adopt preventive measures--as do corresponding federal laws.
1.25 Fortunately, changes are underway with the introduction of proposed new national laws,
which now await final legislative action. The pending flood control and protection measures
would modify existing distinctions between Federal and provincial sovereignty over river-related
matters, and provide additional, long-needed clarifications. They also set forth as national policy
the requirement to rapidly evacuate flood waters, as well as recommending the application of
land-use restrictions near flood zones. Another proposal is a civil defense law, which is the first
Federal legislation prescribing a national system in the context of natural resource protection.
In connection with these measures, to enhance the legal framework, the proposed project would
support the creation of provincial laws and regulations on issues related to floods.



-6 -
1.26 Strengthened Role of Provinces. Under the current Administration, intergovernmental
relationships have been altered with a rejuvenation of provincial importance. Political power
and resources have moved increasingly away from Greater Buenos Aires. In part, this has been
sparked by resurgent federalist and decentralization actions, resulting in progressive transfers
of expenditure responsibilities to local levels. These trends go back many years but have gained
momentum recently. There also have been fundamental changes in the management and
ownership of Argentina's infrastructure as a result of the privatization of many federal functions.
Central Government agencies and public enterprises lost considerable authority and resources;
many are now either totally or nearly privatized or no longer exist.
1.27 These changes have frayed the already thin local institutional capacity. One illustration
is the City of Buenos Aires's management of its chronic flooding problem. As long as the
Federal authorities dominated infrastructure and public services, that problem was reasonably
well handled. For some time, "Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n (OSN)" built and maintained
stormwater drainage networks for the capital. In the last few years, though, OSN has been
dismantled, which has also coincided with rising flood levels and considerable damage. The
Government of the city of Buenos Aires has struggled unsuccessfully since the late 1980s to cope
with this situation, and has developed plans for drainage works in several basins.
1.28 The provinces today are the major providers of core public services in health, education,
security, water and sanitation, electricity, and other infrastructure--either directly or through
concessions to the private sector. These governments, including the city of Buenos Aires,
accounted for half of all public expenditures for goods and services in 1993 and employed about
40% more staff than the federal administration.
1.29 However, local authorities have experienced problems meeting their new responsibilities.
As a result, generally low quality and coverage of public services persists. Most of these
governments were not prepared to fulfill their expanded roles and have not yet sufficiently
modernized to take up their new responsibilities. Part of this is attributable to diffused
jurisdictional rights and obligations.  Perhaps an even more important factor is that the
intergovernmental arrangements poorly match provincial expenditure responsibilities with
available resources. This has compromised provincial accountability.
1.30 Financial Constraints. Provincial financial constraints are affected by a high level of
central financing of provincial expenditures, and the resulting lack of incentives for provinces
to manage operations effectively. Since 1986, there has been a Federal revenue-sharing
arrangement that provided the basis for the financial relationship between the nation and the
provinces. The arrangement then called for distribution of almost 57% of shared revenues to
the provinces; other special funds are also available.   The result has been that even the
relatively well-administered provinces rely on the central government for most of their revenues-
-and this dependence is considered excessive.
1.31 Federal (coparticipation) revenue transfers in 1992 financed on average 60% of all
provincial spending, and additional discretionary transfers provided another 6%. For the five



-7-
poorest Parana Basin provinces, national transfers averaged 82% of expenditures (the highest
being 92% in Formosa). These transfers involved considerable resources, particularly because
beginning in 1991 central government revenue collections greatly increased. As a consequence,
the statutory revenue-sharing formula prompted much higher "coparticipation" transfers, which
rose from 5.9 billion to 10.7 billion pesos (in 1993 real terms) between 1990 and 1992. Now,
provincial own-source revenues are increasing but are still insignificant in many provinces
compared to previous central governmental transfers.
1.32 Similar weaknesses can be seen in provincial spending priorities. Provincial revenues
were 26% higher in 1991 and 47% more in 1992 over previous years, rising to the equivalent
of 9% of GDP. But when provincial revenues dropped, administrations cut capital expenditures
in half while maintaining current expenditures roughly constant. Public investment declined by
60% on a per capita basis between 1981 and 1990, when they represented 19% of provincial
spending.    Even with the subsequent increase in overall provincial revenues, capital
expenditures further declined in 1992/93 to 15 % of provincial spending. The share of provincial
investment financed by Federal transfers grew from 35 % in 1983 to an average of 53 % between
1990 and 1992.
1.33 These financial problems generally apply to the seven Basin provinces. In 1994, all
showed primary operating deficits (overall fiscal balance less net interest payments and capital
revenues) with one exception, Corrientes. The latter's positive level was only 1% of current
expenditures. There are however some encouraging trends: as of April 1995, only Buenos
Aires, Formosa, and Misiones continued to show further primary operating deficits. Moreover,
data show larger shares of provincial current expenditures were financed by locally-generated
revenues between 1992 and 1994. However, that share remained below 20% for four of the
seven Basin provinces over this period. This low level of internally generated resources is a bad
sign, given the pressure on the Federal Government to reduce its transfers, while at the same
time additional health and education functions are being decentralized.
1.34 Recent Initiatives. The Federal Government has launched efforts to improve provincial
finances. It has been trying to rationalize coparticipation transfers; reduce discretionary transfers
that reward poor fiscal performers; decentralize more service responsibilities in health and
education to the provinces; reform and take responsibility for provincial social security systems;
improve local resource mobilization and trim provincial public administration; eliminate Central
Bank rediscounts; and promote privatization of provincial banks. To achieve these, the Ministry
of Interior has established the Under-Secretariat for Assistance to the Provinces (SSAP) to
oversee this process.
1.35 These efforts have met with some success. Chaco, Entre Rios, and Misiones, for
example, have recently approved legislation supporting Federal-inspired tax reforms. These
provinces have also formulated plans for reducing redundant civil servants and auditing their
largest taxpayers. They also approved legislation for privatizing provincial banks and public
enterprises. Corrientes, Entre Rios, and Santa F6 are reported to be advancing privatization
transactions. There are strong imperatives for additional reforms, particularly by the northern



and northeastern provinces. However, provincial fiscal adjustment is unlikely to be implemented
on the scale or at the pace of the Federal Government's recent successful effort.
1.36 Consequently, the Bank has been providing provincial and municipal loans directed at
overcoming these obstacles. Beginning with the first Provincial Development Loan (Ln.
3280-AR), SSAP has been supported in stimulating improvements in local resource mobilization
and improvements in the efficiency of local expenditures. The Provincial Reform Loan (Ln.
3836-AR) is providing additional support, particularly to the Federal Government to meet its
objectives of tightening discretionary transfers and improving incentives for greater fiscal
progress and accountability.
1.37 Similarly, the Second Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3860-AR) limits access to a
US$600-million equivalent program of infrastructure improvements to localities where current
revenues (excluding discretionary grants) exceed current expenditures and where creditworthiness
can be demonstrated. The provinces also would need to meet these criteria for access to the
Second Provincial Development Project (Ln. 3877-AR). Other Bank-financed activities are
geared toward developing alternative approaches to facilitate provincial access to Argentine
capital markets and to strengthen the financial autonomy of provincial service providers so as
to reduce their operational subsidies.
Institutional Framework
1.38 The institutional framework for dealing with floods needs to be improved at both the
federal and provincial levels. The federal agency in charge of river basin management and water
rights control is the "Direcci6n Nacional de Recursos Hfdricos (DNRH)", a department of the
"Secretaria de Obras Publicas" of the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services. It
is in charge of preparing and executing national water resources policy, while the bulk of
responsibilities rests with the provinces. Civil defense actions at the federal level are under the
"Direcci6n Nacional de Defensa Civil", Ministry of Interior. Accordingly, especially as the
provinces have not delegated to Federal agencies the majority of water management and civil
defense actions, a stronger institutional framework is now needed in the provinces.
1.39 Currently, river basin management is not strong. Some provinces have regulations and
one agency assigned to control basin management, while the majority have no control, with
actions taken only during flood emergencies, causing low efficiency and high costs. Further,
recent studies identified five areas needing improvement for adequate flood preparedness. These
are: (i) a well-defined defense strategy; (ii) good maintenance of flood defense installations and
enforcement of flood defence strategy; (iii) creation of a well- conceived early flood-warning
system; (iv) environmental guidelines that take into account recurrent floods in the area; and (v)
civil defense preparedness for flood emergencies. The proposed project would address all of
these needs.
1.40 The proposed project would classify areas by flood risk to facilitate each province having
a suitably-tailored strategy to cope with recurrent flood events. In addition, each province would



prepare a Master Plan for flood-zone areas that defines the defense works needed to protect vital
economic investments, as well as areas for expansion with the intent of containing the effects
of future floods (see Annex 3). Responsibilities for maintenance of flood defense installations
would be identified by each province and municipality, depending on the various arrangements
that exist there, although every province would be responsible for supervising the quality of
maintenance services. To assure this is done, each province would assign responsibility to one
agency (coordination unit) to continuously update the Master Plan, assure its implementation,
and the quality of maintenance of flood defense installations. Accordingly, during negotiations
it was agreed that in the onlending subsidiary agreement a clause will be included by which each
of the seven provinces would establish such a coordinating unit and would assign to them
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
1.41 A well-conceived early flood-warning system--including coordinated efforts of the Federal
Government and all seven provinces--would be created. Currently, only flood forecast activities
are performed by the "Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hfdrica (INCYTH)". The Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR) funded new hardware, software, and communication
equipment for INCYTH to improve its ability to forecast floods. This was an emergency action
given the disastrous flooding in 1992, when INCYTH's computational equipment was only
partially in operation, could not communicate with the affected provinces, and was supported
by obsolete software. Loan 3521-AR also funded an assessment of the installations for
measuring stream flows in the river basin and the flood warning system existing in the basin.
The proposed project would improve the physical installations by financing a new data collection
system, new communication systems, and new computer installations for INCYTH and for the
provinces, in addition to the requisite training (see para. 3.4). To ensure the effectiveness of
this technical upgrading, a network of agencies responsible for data gathering in each province
will be created, specifically to provide flood forecasts and, when needed, warning local
authorities and the affected population of possible floods and their predicted effects. This
proposed early warning system would consist of: flood forecasting (local and in the basin);
frequent coordination meetings among the provinces to share perspectives and innovations; and
local actions to warn and mobilize the population. To assure its success, the subsidiary loan
agreement of the proposed loan of each province would assign to the coordinating unit referred
to in paragraph 1.40 the responsibility for flood warning. Those agencies, together with
INCYTH, would constitute the flood warning system network for this basin.
1.42 An adequate system of civil defense also would be created in each province. The
subsidiary loan agreement of each province would assign the responsibility to coordinate civil
defense actions to one of its agencies. The proposed project would finance the construction of
a system of multiuse community shelters (equipped with emergency hardware) for flood
emergencies (see para. 3.4). Consultants would be hired to implement emergency procedures
to be followed during floods. Equipment and training for the civil defense teams would be
provided.






- 11 -
2. FLOODS IN THE RIO DE LA PLATA BASIN
A. Background
Characteristics of the Basin
2.1   The consequences of the factors described in the previous section have special importance
for Argentina's most distinctive geographic feature--the Plate River (Rio de la Plata) system.
The latter is composed of the conjunction of three great rivers (the Paraguay, Parana and
Uruguay) in the northern part of the country. The Paranl and Uruguay form a 100 mile-long
estuary (the Plate) by their confluence above the city of Buenos Aires, which takes in one fourth
of the waters of South America. The entire Basin system, an area of over 3.1 million square
km, includes substantial parts of four neighboring states.
2.2   Approximately 84% of its terrain is made up of the Parana/Paraguay River Bain, which
contains a wide range of natural resources. The area has the most developed agricultural and
industrial zones on the continent. In addition, it holds some of the most important hydroelectric
dams in Latin America (Itaipil and Yacyreta). It moreover contains an extensive riverine and
terrestrial transportation network; generates about 89% of the gross domestic product of the
countries; and is home to some 100 million people. The Basin covers more than a third of
Argentina, and is populated by about 79% of its inhabitants.
2.3   The most important segment is the Paran River Basin, in view of the magnitude of its
discharges, extension of its area and its overall length. The Basin, located between latitude 160
and 340 South, encompasses an important area of Argentina and Brazil, the whole of Paraguay
and part of Bolivia. It has a total area of 1.5 million km2. The main tributary of the Parana
River is the Paraguay River, whose basin covers 1.1 million km2. The Paraguay River runs for
about 2, 500 km from its origins in southwestern Brazil until joining the Parana north of
Corrientes. Meanwhile, the Uruguay River, also originating in Brazil, flows almost parallel to
the Parana until joining it in its delta, northeast of Buenos Aires.
2.4   The Parana River originates at the confluence of the Paranaiba and Grande Rivers. Its
width varies dramatically from 4,000 m north of Guaira Falls to 60 m below these falls. Near
Posadas in Argentina, its width ranges between 150 and 2,500 m. However, its flood plain
gradually increases, especially over its right bank (which is lower). The width of this flood
plain varies between 13 km near Corrientes and about 56 km near Rosario-Victoria. The delta
of the river is 18 km wide at its beginning, growing to a width of about 60 km. Then the
Parana flows into the de la Plata River through its numerous branches.
2.5   The runoff basin of the Parana is in an area of heavy precipitation almost throughout the
year as a result of rain-producing systems of tropical and extra-tropical (frontal-type) origins.
Average precipitation in the Parand River Basin varies between 200 mm per year in the western
part, the mountain range of the Andes, and 2,000 m in the southeastem part, consisting of the



- 12 -
Iguazu River basin. The rains are almost constant during the year in the southern and
southeastern parts of the basin. This rainfall distribution produces high river flows in the Parana
that begin in October/November and peak between February and June/July. Consequently, flood
plains along the Parana are periodically inundated. Records show floods in two of every three
years at the city of Corrientes, the locale of the critical discharge above which flooding occurs.
2.6   The associated Paraguay River Basin encompasses 1,095,000 km2, 17% of which is in
Argentina. It stretches over an immense alluvial plain, with very slight slope and extensive
flood plains. In the River's upper stretches, the river banks are low and prone to floods
(creating a close to 100,000 km2 zone known as the "Pantanal," periodically covered by water).
However, the Pantanal wetlands (one of the world's largest) act like a huge sponge, soaking up
the floodwaters of the Paraguay and releasing them slowly. This is beneficial because seasonal
rains simultaneously reach the headwaters of the Parana and Paraguay Rivers, and these would
normally converge. But the Pantanal delays the annual rise of the lower Paraguay by about six
months. Subject to the same precipitation forces as the Parana, the Paraguay Basin's average
mean rainfall varies from 400 mm to 1,800 mm.
2.7   Within Argentina, the major constituents of the aforementioned basin area are the
following:
(a) Gran Chaco: The lowlands of the north include the provinces of Chaco, Formosa,
Santiago del Estero, and northern Cordoba and Santa Fe, comprising the lower portion of the
tropical Gran Chaco. This hot, thorny scrub region consists mainly of flat jungle plains.
Subtropical in character, its rainfall averages between 650 mm and 1,300 mm yearly. Its
numerous high-volume, navigable watercourses generate annual floods during the rainy season,
sometimes to considerable depths. Cattle, cotton, tobacco, and subtropical fruits are important
products.
(b) Mesopotamia: The northeastern lowlands include the Provinces of Entre Rios,
Corrientes, and Misiones, which are characterized by rolling hills and high rainfall. This is the
wettest section of the country. The narrow northeastern segment of this region constitutes
Argentina's section of the Parana plateau. It is the major source of all Argentine citrus output
and beverage crops (tea and yerba mate), besides having sizeable forestry resources.
(c) Greater Buenos Aires: The 2,500-square-km Greater Buenos Aires area is situated
on the southern banks of the Rio de la Plata. Although it occupies less than 10 percent of the
national territory, it has been the basis of one of South America's largest metropolitan
concentrations when combined with interconnected urban areas. This urban corridor (the
"Litoral") stretches 500 km along the Parana and de la Plata Rivers. Equally important is the
"humid pampas" segment of the area, a rich agricultural plain of some 45 million ha. This zone
accounts for almost all of Argentina's cereal production and the bulk of livestock output. Its
climate is temperate with most of the area having 600 mm to 1,000 mm rainfall, rising cyclically
to higher levels, particularly in the northwest of Buenos Aires Province. In the eastern half,
shallow lagoons are numerous and standing waters render millions of acres unfit for cultivation.



- 13 -
Some areas are constantly underwater, since, as in the Chaco and Mesopotamia regions, they
are generally poorly drained.
2.8   The area of the proposed project has been studied several times. Among these, the most
representative was a study carried out by the Organization of American States ("Cuenca del Rio
de la Plata-Estudio para su Planificaci6n y Desarrollo," 1969-1971). It provided an assessment
of the hydro-meteorological data of the Basin and its natural resources, including those of all the
countries involved.
Past Floods in the Basin
2.9   Most of northeastern Argentina consists of extensive, low-sloping plains. Their soils
have little capacity for water retention. Rainfall patterns (elaborated below) ares so irregular
that they cause both seasonal surpluses and shortfalls. These factors pose high risks of
respective episodes of pervasive flooding and droughts, from which the Parana Basin historically
has suffered. However, there has been an important change: in recent decades, the flooding
pattern has been noticeably atypical. In both the 1980s and the 1990s, the floods were large,
repetitive, and so costly as to provoke widespread concern.
2.10 Average precipitation in the Basin in normal years varies between 200 mm per year in
the western part and 2,000 mm in the southeastern basin, where rains are almost constant. This
distribution produces high river flows beginning in October/November that peak between
February and June/July. In most flood years, torrential downpours in the upper part of the
Parana Basin between January and May produce massive flows in the Parana River. Records
of these flows date back to 1901, and there is also relatively good land-use data extending over
some 40 years; however, the meteorological data contains serious gaps.
2.11 Numerous studies of recent flooding frequently have concluded that there have been
substantial changes in the region's climate. Under this hypothesis, two main alternatives are
commonly suggested. One underscores extra-regional influences (e.g., "El Nifio") that affected
average rainfall between 1985 and 1987 without modifying its basic pattern. The second
suggests that the rainfall structure of the region has changed (among other possibilities, by the
consequences of the alleged "global warming" of the earth), thus leading to a more humid
regional climate.
2.12 To further understanding the problem, the Bank carried out a study to review these
apparent changes ("An Analysis of Flooding in the Parana/Paraguay River Basin," September
1993). Findings suggested that 5 of the 10 most severe floods (measured in terms of annual
daily peak discharges) recorded in this century have occurred since 1982. The most notable
events occurred between November 1982 and July 1983, when area rainfall and flooding far
exceeded expectations. The study concluded that:
(a) flooding was both more frequent and more severe in the latter half of this century
than previously experienced;



- 14 -
(b) extreme flows were both less frequent and less extreme in the latter part of this
century than before;
(c) total streamflow was greater and its intra-annual distribution different than in the
latter part of the sample period than during the early years;
(d) variations in precipitation explain much of the variation in streamflows and flooding;
(e) changes in intra-annual variation in streamflow appear to be caused by a combination
of changes in the intra-annual distribution of precipitation, as well as in the operation of
reservoirs on the Parana that delay the propagation of floods; and
(f) there is no consistent evidence that changes in rainfall/runoff dynamics associated with
land use changes have played an important role in recent flooding in the Basin.
2.13 A subsequent independent report prepared by consultants (Sir William Halcrow and
Partners) agreed with these conclusions (Annex 2). The consultant team particularly examined
the unusually heavy rainfall that occurred between late 1982 and mid-1983, drawing on
hydrologic data gathered near the confluence of the Paraguay and Parana Rivers.  Its report
concluded that the 1982/83 flood was the greatest recorded in the 20th Century, noting four to
five peaks which exceeded 50,000 m3/sec. It calculated that the 1983 Basin figures showed:
(a) rain-fall volumes during November to July, 43 % higher than normal levels, and (b) stream-
flow volumes for the same period, 2 1/2 times greater than usual.
2.14  It also found that, beginning in the 1960s, there were significant increases during this
century in the incidence and severity of area flooding within the overall La Plata Basin. The
report stated that post-1965 floods constituted 6 of the 10 greatest in this century, affecting the
Parana River, and 8 of the 10 affecting the Paraguay River. For the Uruguay River, the
conclusion was that the four greatest floods since 1898 occurred after 1972. The study noted
that more extensive flooding in every two of three years' higher waters had caused damage, and
that appreciable damage was occurring on average every ten years. The Halcrow report
furthermore concluded that during 1992 flood levels at Corrientes reached the second highest
levels of the century, recorded at 55,000 m/3 sec. On these bases, the report concluded that the
incidence and severity of La Plata flooding had changed significantly since 1960.
2.15 The consultant assessment of the Parana River pattern drew a distinction between the
magnitude of flood peaks and the frequency of such events. The former were considered not
exceptional while the latter constituted a significant change. The Halcrow report singled out
Parana Basin rains in June and November 1982, and January and May 1983 as the highest
recorded in those months since the beginning of this century. The study associated these La
Plata regime developments with evidence of changes in regional rainfall patterns.
2.16 The economic and social impact of flooding in the Basin has been notable largely for two
reasons. First, the development of many Parana Basin population centers is concentrated in



- 15 -
flood-prone areas. Their cities have continued to grow but consist of infrastructure and services
for dry zones, and with buildings that have little adaptive capacity if floods occur. Second, a
serious deterioration in water and related services is also in evidence. For example, excluding
the Federal Capital, 1993 estimates suggest that 58% (4.6 million people) of the population of
Greater Buenos Aires lacked public water supply, and three-quarters (5.9 million) of them were
without sewerage service.
2.17 The 1982/83 floods affected an estimated 4.5 million residents of the "litoral," where
some 177,000 persons were evacuated. These floods were also reported to have affected half
the population of Chaco Province. In May 1985, an estimated 308 mm of water fell in Buenos
Aires in 24 hours. This seriously affected more than 305,000 inhabitants, of whom 71,000 were
evacuated, with more than 69,000 homes suffering damage. These events are believed to have
mainly hit lower-income groups, estimated to constitute over 60% of the total population
inundated. Then in March 1988, 240 mm of rainfall fell in four days, prompting more mass
evacuations.
The 1992 Flood
2.18 At the end of 1991, unusually heavy rains began to fall in the catchment areas of the
Paraguay, Parana, and Uruguay Rivers. As in most normal flood years, these torrential
downpours in the Basin produced massive flows into the Parana River. On this occasion,
however, there were two other unusual circumstances. As the Basin soils were already saturated
by earlier rains, the discharge into the Paranl River increased more rapidly than was customary.
In addition, heavy rains in the middle to lower Paraguay River Basin that began in March 1992
led to peak flows in this river as well. These coincided with the peak Parana flows. Ultimately,
the combined flows crested in May/June 1992 at almost four times the yearly average, affecting
the seven Parana Basin provinces and contiguous areas in Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The
Province of Formosa was hardest hit, followed by Chaco, Corrientes, and Entre Rios.
2.19  A consultant study carried out in conjunction with project preparation assessed the effects
of this flood in six Basin provinces (excluding Buenos Aires), and compared them with the
1982/83 event. The findings show that the 1992 flood was smaller and less damaging--but that
both were exceedingly costly. The study calculated the economic costs of the 1992 flood at
US$905 million, while the 1982/83 flood was nearly twice as destructive at US$1.79 billion
(both in December 1993 dollars). By comparison, the toll in 1966 and 1977 was found to be
about US$750 million and US$266 million, respectively. The study estimated that 3.1 million
ha were inundated in 1992, 16% less than in the 1980 events, causing the evacuation of more
than 121,000 persons, compared to over 177,000 the decade before. Some 59,000 houses and
buildings were damaged, compared to 85,000 previously.
2.20 The 1992 damage tally also showed substantial output losses and capital stock disarray.
An estimated 1.5 million head of cattle were affected, as well as 30% of soybean plantings in
Formosa and Misiones, and Chaco's cotton crop. Nearly one-third of the damage occurred to
commerce and industry. Furthermore, living conditions in urban centers--especially in the cities



- 16 -
of Santa Fe and Clorinda--were hard hit, with disastrous consequences for the poor. In fact, the
study judged the 'social" ramifications to be more adverse than the effects on productive sectors
in this case.
2.21 These consequences and the prospects for further damage from new floods are
particularly onerous for the poorer Basin provinces. As noted, they generally have weak
economies and heavy poverty burdens.  Their public financial capacity is also weak.
Nevertheless, there are some hopeful signs of economic growth that could help mitigate the
prospect of diminished Federal revenue. The 1994 export growth rate of the northeast provinces
was greater than that of any other region, reflecting good cereals, cotton, petroleum, and tea
expansion, particularly in Chaco and Corrientes.
2.22 Flood Rehabilitation Project. To mitigate the 1992 disaster, the Central Government
established a national program. It first defined and launched relief and rescue operations
concentrated on evacuation of the affected population, as well as providing shelter, food, and
blankets. River defenses were fortified in all cities and towns near the rivers; dikes and other
embankments were also shored up.
2.23 Shortly thereafter, the Government launched the Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 3521-AR). This was aimed at meeting the reconstruction needs of the afflicted provinces
as well as providing a sound institutional framework for coordination and implementation of the
overall Government rehabilitation program. The intention was to restore normal economic
activity in this troubled area.  Project activities were defined as rehabilitating essential
infrastructure (transport, energy, emergency flood defenses, education and health, housing, water
supply and drainage). In addition to these activities, technical assistance was arranged to
facilitate long-term flood forecasting and related activities.
2.24 The design of this operation was based on lessons learned during the 1992 flood together
with Bank-assisted flood-related reconstruction efforts in other countries. The most important
lessons include: (a) a quick response to flood-emergency conditions through speedy
implementation of restoration works, along with consideration of long-term prevention aspects;
(b) precisely defined components; (c) enlisting strong Government and beneficiary commitments;
and (d) creation of a well-structured implementation framework and transparent assignment of
responsibilities for coordination and implementation at the outset. The organizational scheme
should entail decentralizing project operations to the local level but with central coordination.
2.25 The design also set strict bounds for the operation. One was that there should be no
intention to attain complete or optimal protection against similarly severe future flooding.
Accordingly, the project included only repairs and restoration-type works. A second reflected
the considerations that the damaged provinces accounted for nearly half of national GDP, and
that the flood damage threatened to set back Argentina's then fragile economic recovery and
still-tentative fiscal balance. On these accounts, the project focused on productive infrastructure
and only the most urgent social facilities. Third, because of administrative weaknesses in the



- 17 -
provinces concerned, it was decided to engage local government institutions experienced in the
management of relatively uncomplicated, short-term civil works.
2.26 The project work plan reflected the seven provinces' own identification and judgment
about priorities among their reconstruction needs. Emergency flood defense works were ranked
highest, for which some 37% of project costs were allocated. For example, repairing and
strengthening dikes, and reinforcing and raising bridges that impeded water flows, were
considered urgent. Further, many flood control facilities failed because some dikes had not been
raised high enough, and some pumping equipment was inoperable. Transport and energy
facilities followed close behind in importance. Housing, education, and water supply/sewerage
components were lesser priorities, with average ranking of between 9% and 12%.
2.27 The project is being implemented using the existing organizational framework established
for the Provincial Development Project, which was suitable for the new tasks. Moreover, to
help ensure the project's success, the necessary operational autonomy was provided by the
creation of an independent subsidiary of SSAP.  A free-standing Central Emergency
Coordination Subunit ("Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia--SUCCE") was
set up to direct the new activity. General coordination and central administration of the program
were assigned to SUCCE.
2.28 In addition to employing a capable manager, SUCCE has been staffed with a procurement
expert to help oversee time-sensitive purchasing requirements, along with a team of experienced,
adequately-paid consultants in the several infrastructure sectors of the operation. An individual
consultant, reporting to SSAP, was hired for independent monitoring of the program.
Recognizing that the project's success depended equally on provisions for speedy implementation
and the engagement of maximum provincial capacity, similar offshoots of the established
provincial units ("Sub-Unidad Provincial de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia--SUPCE") were
created in the provincial governments to devote equally autonomous, full-time energy to carrying
out the rehabilitation program.  These units were also granted considerable operational
flexibility.
2.29 Project activities began relatively promptly in late 1992 because of the availability of a
portion of the Provincial Development Loan proceeds--which had been reprogrammed to use for
addressing flood damage. There were procedural delays however in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness of the loan (3521-AR). In addition, some of the participating provinces lagged
considerably behind others in initiating their works. These were partially caused by renewed
flooding of the Paraguay River in December 1992--the highest on record in the cities of Clorinda
and Formosa. Also, there were administrative delays in mobilizing project activity in Buenos
Aires and Misiones.
2.30 Despite these initial impediments, assessments of the project's actions and status during
1994 increasingly found that the operation was well implemented. By December 1995, all
programmed contracts had been signed. Furthermore, they are being carried out satisfactorily
and at a good pace. Encouragingly, the time-sensitive flood defense works generally had been



- 18 -
speedily and well executed. And the lagging Buenos Aires operation had then achieved normal
project execution velocity. A notable feature of the project, as planned, was the reconstruction
of area residents housing, which had been carefully targeted at low income families. On the
other hand, counterpart financing shortages flared up periodically. Disbursements under both
loans on August 31, 1996 were 93% of their respective totals. The works are scheduled for
completion by April 1997.
2.31 The progress made to date has validated the assumptions about the project design and
implementation methods. It also reflects: (a) the fact that some 80% of the works were
identified at the start of the project; (b) the benefits of SUCCE's staff, which employed
experienced sector specialists; (c) the additional services of the engineering consultant
responsible for independent oversight of the operation; and (d) the utility of streamlined
arrangements with civil works contractors.
2.32 In addition to carrying out these activities, the Government began preparation for longer-
term measures aimed at enhancing flood protection in the future, as well as sustainable
development in the Parana Basin. With assistance provided under Ln 3521-AR, several studies
were commissioned (discussed below) that largely constitute the basis for the proposed project
and program. Moreover, the same loan funded new hardware, software, and communication
equipment for the National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology (INCYTH) to
improve its flood-forecasting capacity. This was in response to the need that existed in 1992
when INCYTH's computational equipment was inadequate and the Institute effectively was not
in contact with the provinces. In this regard, an expert recently assessed INCYTH's installations
for measuring Basin stream flows and "early-warning" capacity.
B. Future Prospects: A River Basin Approach
2.33 The Government has designed a new strategy to cope with Parana River Basin flooding.
The strategy calls for:
(a) improved management of the Basin's major natural resources through improved
coordination of flood-related actions within and among the provinces;
(b) "structural measures" consisting of well-defined, long-term investments in defending the
area's most important assets, replacing present "emergency" reactions; and
(c) "nonstructural measures" consisting of a combination of actions for "living-with-floods,"
including flood warning and civil defense measures in lesser priority areas.
2.34 Improved Management of the Basin. To prepare for future floods, the Government has
decided to revise various underlying concepts and mechanisms. In the past, water has been
treated as an abundant resource (as elsewhere in Latin America) with relatively little concern
about it. However, this view is now considered as misguided. This change has been stimulated
partially by growing land water-use problems, as well as recurrent flooding, increased



- 19 -
competition for water supply, and contamination. In addition, the management of these issues
has been impeded by the disparate interests of numerous sectoral groups.
2.35 Moreover, the change in focus in Argentina coincides with the advent of broader natural
resource concerns, which have attracted considerable popular interest. Perhaps the principal
aspects are indications that the factors causing extraordinary flooding are becoming more
prevalent, which results in costly damage. In addition, the Government has come to appreciate
that, despite some gains in limiting vulnerability to natural disasters, many of the flood
mitigation techniques are themselves very expensive.
2.36 These concerns have triggered a Government decision to address flood protection issues
more forcefully in an effort to reduce vulnerability to flood effects. The authorities also decided
to adopt a river basin management approach for this process, given the need for coordinated
policies and actions by provinces most affected by floods. Furthermore, a basin-wide approach
is needed to overcome the dispersion of local institutions and inconsistent policy frameworks.
It is also compatible with and supports the recent increased devolution of governmental
responsibilities to local authorities. Experience under the Flood Rehabilitation Project (see
paras. 2.22 to 2.32) has shown encouraging interprovincial collaboration on common problems
concerning Parana Basin resources.
2.37 Conceptually as well the river-basin approach has been identified throughout the world
as a useful means of dealing with the externalities of water (e.g., diversions for hydropower,
irrigation, navigation) and non-water activities.  It likewise facilitates comprehensive
consideration of broader water issues and flow-regulation alternatives, and optimal choices
among flood-control alternatives. This approach is supported by the Bank water resource policy
in countries such as Argentina, where provincial governments have primary authority over water
resource management.
2.38 On the basis of findings concerning river-basin management, the Halcrow study
recommended two alternatives to establishing an institutional framework: (a) an agreement
between the provincial governments and the central government on the framework to be ratified
by their respective legislatures; or (b) separate provincial laws. The authorities selected the
second alternative, and also decided to strengthen coordination of the management of the Basin's
natural resources under a decentralized scheme. The key is reliance on each province assuming
responsibility for the planning, implementation, and management of project works, with only
limited Federal oversight.
2.39 An important corollary of these new arrangements would be to strengthen local rules and
their administration in such a way as to overcome current deficiencies in flood protection of the
Basin and related environmental concerns. The Basin provinces already have wide authority to
provide a better framework for flood protection, which has not been fully exploited. However,
current provincial legislation does not adequately provide clear restrictions on land and water
resource use, which has led to development of areas highly vulnerable to flood damage. Nor



- 20 -
have current laws produced effective enforcement of pertinent regulations, which has impeded
the prevention or reduction of flood damage (para. 1.24).
2.40 Reforming these shortcomings should be facilitated by passage of the proposed new
national flood protection law (para. 1.25) that permits more comprehensive local rules
concerning land and water use and related environmental matters. The proposed law would
charge the provinces with determining river margins and the clear demarcation between private
and public zones. It commensurately encourages the establishment of land use restrictions based
on these zone distinctions to discourage development in flood-prone and high flood-risk areas.
2.41 To facilitate this approach, a consultant reviewed existing provincial legislation related
to flooding and drafted a new legal framework for each province that encompasses: (a) preparing
maps of flood-prone areas classified by type of risk; (b) requiring private property owners to
demarcate their lands according to this classification; (c) adapting tax rules and Government-
supported credit or subsidy programs to discourage development in flood-risk areas; (d)
introducing requirements for evaluation of environmental impact in the preparation of proposed
new hydraulic works; (e) introducing requirements for cost recovery from beneficiaries of flood
control works, covering maintenance as well as construction; (f) arranging for the coordination
among different provincial organizations of water resources and flood protection; and (g)
establishing areas for appropriate protection of wildlife and vegetation. Agreement on the
proposed law was reached during project preparation. During negotiations it was agreed that
each province would submit this law to its legislature, as a condition of disbursement of the
proceeds of the proposed loan for the respective province. To allow reasonable time for
discussions on this law by the legislature, keeping, however, incentives for its approval and
enforcement, during negotiations it was agreed that the SUCCE will not authorize any new
commitments for contracts for "structural" sub-projects in excess to 50 percent of the evaluated
total cost of all first priority sub-projects for a participating province unless the Flood Protection
Law has been enacted in that province. "Non-structural" measurers could be implemented
without restrictions. Additionally it was agreed to adopt as a condition of effectiveness that this
law be submitted in the first participating province.
2.42  Subsequently, the provinces would create regulatory controls to enforce these policies.
These would apply, for example, to prohibition of certain building construction and repairs;
similar prohibitions on specific types of land; building standards for flood security purposes,
e.g., waterproofing requirements; obligations to destroy obstacles to floodways; obligations to
build and maintain private drainage and sewage disposal systems with suitable protection against
flood damage. Agreement was reached during negotiations on a timetable of actions for each
province to enact satisfactory regulations to meet these requirements.
2.43 Further, under the proposed project, each province would classify its areas according to
the extent of vulnerability to flood risk. The flood risk in each area would be made public to
facilitate private flood insurance providers to assess their risks and estimate insurance premiums.
This risk assessment, in addition to legal and regulatory controls (para. 2.42), and the



- 21 -
educational actions on floods included in the environmental component of the project (see para.
3.14) would prompt landowners to seek flood insurance.
2.44 After designating flood-risk areas, each province would update its master plan so as to
protect important economic investments in such areas for existing priority zones and to define
those expansion areas that will be of equal importance to minimize future flood effects. Further,
the provinces and municipalities would assign responsibilities for maintenance of flood defense
installations. A single agency would be designated with coordination responsibilities, e.g.,
continued updating of master plans, enforcing their application, and supervising maintenance of
the defense installations. In addition, the seven provincial agencies would meet periodically to
exchange information and coordinate their efforts within the Basin.
2.45  Plans for the future call for merging these responsibilities with those for the maintenance
of existing flood control operations and facilities, the execution and maintenance of new flood
control operations and facilities, flood-warning and related environmental protection functions,
and expanded civil defense activities. To achieve this, ideally each province would need to
charge the existing SUPCE organizations with responsibility for the internal coordination
functions indicated above. This would be an effective way of drawing on the valuable
experience and competence of the SUPCE staffs--in addition to their linkage with pertinent
provincial governmental and private organizations. It would also provide useful continuity of
the existing arrangement of SUCCE's central administration and supervision, and the individual
SUPCEs representing their provinces, with the expansion of their functions to encompass
implementation and monitoring of river-valley management. However, each province would be
free to assign this responsibility elsewhere, as long as central coordination is assured. Provincial
authorities would have to ensure adequate resources for discharging these functions.
2.46 To bring about these organizational changes, as well as to place them on a permanent
basis, each Province would have to ensure that there is adequate legislation in effect for this
purpose. Provinces which elect to use SUPCEs to coordinate the Basin coordination and
management approach described above will need to place these organizations on a permanent
basis, since they now exist only for the remaining execution period of the Flood Rehabilitation
Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached on continuity of provincial coordinating
units and the installation of a river-basin management framework, including the provincial laws
referred to in para. 2.41.
2.47 Structural Measures. After extended and harmful floodings in 1982/83 and 1992,
Argentina made significant investments in structural and nonstructural flood defenses. They are
concentrated mainly around the Parana and Paraguay Rivers, with only a few applying to the
Uruguay River. Since measures taken were implemented as part of an emergency program, in
reaction to damage suffered during the 1983/82 and 1992 floods, they lack a well- structured and
permanent planning framework and related technical support.
2.48 A study of past floods in the alluvial valleys of the Parana, Paraguay, and Uruguay
Rivers (see para. 2.13) concluded that investments in flood protection would be justified in



- 22 -
comparison with only emergency-type rehabilitative actions. The study, which provides the
basis for the proposed project, also produced a mapping of the region that demonstrated varying
degrees of risk and recommendations for its zoning relative to economic values (Annex 2).
Following these assessments, the provinces proceeded with the preparation of local master plans
addressing the defense of their most important physical and economic, following the types of
interventions and methodologies recommended in the Halcrow study. The specific objectives
of these plans were to identify measures that would reduce the period and areas of flooding,
improve the related infrastructure, and upgrade the preparedness for dealing with flood
emergencies. The works proposed include small dikes, river-side embankments, drainage
channels, and pumping systems. In each plan, several alternatives were developed and analyzed,
and their environmental consequences assessed. The results form a list of sub-projects. These
were scaled down and rationalized on the basis of technical, environmental, and economic
criteria and constitute two priority groups. The proposed loan would provide sufficient financing
to cover the higher priority of the two. When project implementation would be advanced
(around 50%), another operation would be prepared for the implementation of the second round
group.
2.49 Nonstructural Measures. Most prior efforts to manage the effects of floods have focused
on structural measures involving large-scale, and therefore capital-intensive, flood-control
projects. However, the Government has concluded that it is averse to extending these measures
to the whole Basin for the following reasons: the fear that large flood control works would yield
low returns, be unduly expensive, and could engender a false sense of security in the
floodplains; anxiety about damage to ecosystems in normally flooded areas.
2.50 The innovative approach used in this project combines the aforementioned physical
controls in some areas with nonstructural measures in others--which is sometimes referred to as
a "living-with-floods" strategy. The latter approach stems from the growing international
recognition that vulnerability to flood damage is largely the consequence of human actions and
choices instead of acts of nature. Attention is focused on decisions such as where people live,
where industry and commerce settles, acts of cutting forests, developing marginal lands. On this
basis, the nonstructural approach is a strategy that encourages residents of rural areas and small
communities to adapt to floods, and even to capture their benefits when possible. It seeks to
offset the negative effects of floods, and also to mitigate any negative effects that flood control
measures may cause, while at the same time complementing land use restrictions. The ""living-
with-floods" strategy furthermore is particularly appropriate for riverine floods. These are
difficult to control. The area of flooding can be predicted on the basis of topography and past
history.
2.51  Flooding also may benefit some areas. It can bring rich silt deposits and topsoil nutrients
vital to agriculture as well as nutrients that stimulate fish development. It can improve natural
varieties of food grains, recharge shallow aquifers, seed sandbars to form barrier islands, and
permit mining of silt deposits (if not sand).



- 23 -
2.52 This approach implies greater importance to the requirement for the traditional defense
measures undertaken by the affected communities. Accordingly, the Government's plan calls
for a more organized response than the customary mitigation measures Basin residents are
accustomed to, as well as an enhanced supporting legal and institutional framework. Its strategy
envisages a more participative and decentralized early-warning system throughout these
provinces in three main areas: (i) a new institutional framework would be implemented in each
province to deal with recurrent floods; (ii) a new early-flood-warning system to ensure more
adequate and extensive flood warning capacity in the provinces; and (iii) creation of flood
preparedness capacity and improvements in civil defense for vulnerable areas not considered to
warrant further investment in structural defenses, including construction of shelters (multipurpose
installations) and improved housing for lower-income families.
2.53 The new institutional framework would result in: (i) plans and regulations to rationalize
land usage in flood-prone areas, including classification of areas according to their vulnerability
to flood risk, thus leading landowners to seek private flood insurance (see para. 2.41, 2.42, and
2.43); (ii) creation of a unit that would coordinate civil defense, flood warning, consultation on
hydraulic works, maintenance of flood defense facilities, and provision of environmental
safeguards related to flooding issues (see para. 2.45 and 2.46).
2.54 The provincial early flood warning system would be improved including installation of
a new network of hydrometering stations with satellite communications to a central computer for
gathering a central data bank with open access to all participating provinces, which would have
their local computers connected to a central one. Local flood warning teams would be trained
and equipped with adequate software to make timely, effective local forecasts. The provincial
early-warning units will need to enlist their community in applying preventive measures, and in
spreading early-warning information quickly in flood situations.
2.55 To assist the population in areas without defense works, a network of shelters would be
constructed and equipped with the necessary emergency supplies required. They would be multi-
purpose installations that could be used during normal years as community centers, annexes to
schools, or sport centers. Since they would be actively used by communities during non-
emergency times this would help ensure their routine maintenance. Annex 4 provides additional
details on the shelter system.
2.56 The studies of the Parana Basin experiences underscores the usefulness of improving the
housing conditions of populations subject to flooding. Houses constructed inappropriately or of
very low quality were totally destroyed. However, houses constructed in better locations or that
took flooding into consideration as a factor when designed survived much better.   The
Government's plan therefore provides for improved housing in areas where no flood defense is
planned. The housing component would follow the same principles of the previous project by
providing funding for a voluntary program of self-construction of houses by the community.
The same voucher system employed successfully in the previous project would be used again
(see paras. 3.10 to 3.12 and Annex 4).



- 24 -
C. Past Bank Lending
Previous Bank Involvement
2.57 Bank lending to Argentina over the past several years has changed sharply from its
largely federal orientation to a focus on the provinces. This new thrust resulted from the
following reorientation of country assistance strategy: (a) consolidate macroeconomic reforms
by extending the adjustment process to the provinces; (b) strengthen the greatly weakened public
institutions (especially those responsible for social service delivery); and (c) rebuild Argentina's
deteriorated infrastructure base. The Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR) and the
Second Provincial Development Project (Loan 3877-AR) seek to stabilize provincial public
finances by modernizing public administration and provisions for urgent investments.
Similarly, the First and Second Municipal Development Projects (Loans 2920-AR and 3860-AR)
pursue the strengthening of local public sector institutions, and mobilize resources for badly
needed municipal infrastructure through a more rigorous management of municipal expenditures.
In FY95, the Board approved the Provincial Reform Loan (Loan 3836-AR), which supports
fundamental policy changes to reform provincial finances, including increased accountability in
the use of federal transfers. Recently there have been other provincially-oriented operations in
various social services, agriculture, and infrastructure. During FY 1995/96, however, these
long-term directions were complemented by actions taken to respond to the Fall 1994 Latin
American regional crisis, centered on banking system restructuring.
Lessons from Completed and Ongoing Projects
2.58 While the rationale and short-term nature of disaster remediation activities do not equally
apply in this case, some of their characteristics are nonetheless pertinent. In this connection,
experience of past recovery assistance has provided a number of useful lessons:
(a) reconstruction by itself is not enough. Hence, measures must be taken to reduce the
risk of future disaster damage as well as to safeguard people and communities at risk. The
proposed project is directed to help lessen this vulnerability.
(b) the June 1993 OED audit of the Mexico Earthquake Rehabilitation Project pointed
out the importance of quick responses to disaster. However, this review and the March 1994
audit of the Sfax Flood Protection Project (Tunisia) stressed that it was also important to take
account of other elements that otherwise might be overlooked and, which might reduce long-term
benefits. In the Tunisian case, the acceleration of works design resulted in inadequate attention
to such underlying problems as the disposal of storm water. By contrast, the proposed Argentine
project is based on an early Government appreciation of the inherent risks entailed in these
potential tradeoffs. Therefore, as noted, in parallel with the Flood Rehabilitation repair works,
the authorities promptly undertook activities to address the basic causes of the accelerated Paranl
Basin flooding and how best to contain them. The proposed project is designed to address these
long-term issues.



- 25 -
2.59 Regarding sectoral experience, the Bank's Policy Paper on Water Resources Management
(April 30, 1993) noted that past Bank operations showed that severe damage to water resources
had occurred internationally as a consequence of extensive exploitation. The use of fiscal
incentives, control of land use and management practices, and sound governmental policies and
programs designed to avoid further environmental degradation were recommended. It also stated
that these approaches to prevention and mitigation of vulnerability were less costly and more
effective than restoration and recovery measures. In this connection, more seriously flood-prone
countries (such as Bangladesh) have gradually abandoned reliance on large embankments and
other "heavy" controls because of doubtful economic viability, perverse effects, and
environmental shortcomings. Recent attention concentrates on fewer physical barrier measures,
restricting development in flood plains, and preserving ecosystems. The Bank Policy Paper also
endorsed early, the full participation of beneficiaries and affected parties in planning, designing,
implementing, and managing the project. The proposed project follows this approach.
2.60 Also relevant for the proposed project are the lessons learned from previous Bank-
supported provincial and municipal operations in Argentina, as well as the on-going Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR). The main factors contributing to the greater success of
the former have been: (a) concentration on simple and easy-to-implement investments; (b)
coverage of a large number of interested provinces (or municipalities); (c) maintenance of highly
competent local executing units; and (d) the flexibility of shifting funds among competing
provinces. These projects have, at the same time, shown that most provincial procurement
practices are cumbersome and antiquated.
2.61 The Flood Rehabilitation Project's successful advances are largely attributable to applying
these lessons in its design and manner of implementation, as well as to the creation of a well-
structured implementation framework with a very capable implementation unit (SUCCE), staffed
by a cohesive team of experienced consultants in several infrastructure sectors of the operation,
recruited in the market and paid under market standards. Loan 3521-AR activities also have
progressed well because of substantial latitude given to provincial implementation units (rather
than the past excessive central Government direct action), the strong technical and supervisory
leadership of SUCCE, and the fact that the provincial implementing units (SUPCE) remained
small and oriented to collaboration with normal line agencies. The proposed project also would
benefit from the current one, in that there are now trained and experienced implementation
agencies.






- 27 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.1   The need for the proposed project was identified during the preparation of the Rehabilitation
Project, when the Government and the Bank agreed on improving the afflicted provinces' long-term
preparedness to deal with severe flooding alongside of an immediate rehabilitation operation.
Accordingly, the proposed project was prepared during the implementation of the Rehabilitation Project
and the necessary studies were funded under Loan 3521-AR and from a Japanese Grant.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2   The Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS - discussed at the Board on May 4, 1995, and an
update discussed on April 25, 1996) aims to: (a) consolidate macro reforms by extending the
adjustment process to the provinces; (b) rebuild the infrastructure base; and (c) strengthen public
institutions (especially those for social services). The proposed project is fully supportive of these CAS
objectives. It would advance Government actions to remedy the adverse impact of harmful practices
and patterns in the use of natural resources, improve the infrastructure base in flood-prone areas, and
further enhance the natural resource base on which future growth depends. This is especially important
in the flood-affected areas because of their economic significance and the sizeable populations they
contain--in addition to important health and environmental implications. Further, the experience gained
in implementation of the Flood Rehabilitation Project makes the Bank uniquely qualified, in the
Government's view, to guide a more comprehensive flood protection effort. This experience is
especially relevant due to the limited administrative capacity of the Government in this field. In
addition, the investments required are unlikely to be mobilized from private sector sources.
Project Objectives
3.3   The project would help improve the security of economic assets and persons living in the flood-
prone area by constructing in defense facilities to reduce future losses due to floods, and by
strengthening national and provincial institutions and systems for dealing with future floods as a next
phase after the Flood Rehabilitation Project to restore the assets lost in the recent floods. The specific:
objectives would be to enhance provincial capacity to deal with periodic flooding by upgrading their
flood preparedness and mitigation systems, as well as strengthening coordination within the Basin. The
aim is to provide technically sound and cost-effective flood-protection coverage of the most important:
economic areas, and to develop satisfactory institutional mechanisms to sustain them. The project also
would help create the legal and institutional framework for each province to develop a well-defined.
strategy to cope with recurrent floods, including preparation and implementation of master plans for
flood defense systems in areas in where flood protection works are not economically or environmentally
justified.



- 28 -
Project Description
3.4   The project would support the first phase of a two-stage Flood Protection Program. It would
include the following components:
(a) Structural Measures: Consisting of construction works to protect important areas of the flood
plain. It would include fortification of flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity
and greatest vulnerability to serious repeated flood damage. These investments would not attempt to
control flows of the major rivers (Parana, Paraguay and Uruguay). Instead, they would protect the
cities against floods caused by the rivers through works that would prevent water invasions without
interfering with the rivers. Works would concentrate on raising bridges, improvement of existing and
construction of new drainage channels, embankments and small flood control works. These investments
would follow the master plans developed for each flood-prone area (75.9 percent of base costs).
(b) Nonstructural Measures (24.1 percent of base costs): Consisting of:
(bl) New Institutional Framework: Technical assistance would be provided to help create and
implement an institutional framework in each province to deal with recurrent floods. This would help:
(i) develop plans and regulations to rationalize land usage in flood-prone areas, including classification
of areas according to their vulnerability to flood risk, thereby stimulating property and land owners to
obtain private flood insurance; (ii) create a unit to coordinate civil defense, flood warning, consultation
on hydraulic works, maintenance of flood defense facilities, and coordination of environmental actions
on flooding issues; and (iii) institutional development actions that would support the coordinating units
in their initial operation through technical assistance and equipment (0.7 percent of base costs);
(b2) Upgrading of Flood Preparedness: For vulnerable areas not considered to warrant further
investment in structural defenses, the proposed assistance would provide shelters (multi-purpose
installations) and improved housing for lower-income families in flood-prone zones. The housing
component would follow the same principles of the previous project, providing funding for a voluntary
program of self-construction of houses by the community.  Improvements in the civil defense
arrangements are also envisaged (12.1 percent of base costs);
(b3) Early Flood Warning System: This component would aim to ensure the development of
a more comprehensive flood warning system linking the National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and
Technology (INCYTH) and provincial systems. It would include a new hydro metering system, new
computational equipment, new software, a new communication system, the creation of local flood
warning systems in each province, and training of staff on this new technology (1.0 percent of base
costs);
(b4) Project Implementation and Administration: Technical assistance would be provided to help
implement the project and carry out a related training program for improving the provinces' capabilities
in flood forecasting, early warning, civil defense and environmental activities. The project would



- 29 -
include consultant services for the design of the flood defense works, supervision of construction and
implementation of four environmental programs (10.3 percent of base costs).
3.5   Structural Measures (Defense Works): A complete list of physical improvements related to flood
protection works was first prepared based on comprehensive provincial protection strategies expressed
in individual provincial master plans. These were scaled down and rationalized on the basis of
technical, environmental, and economic criteria, i.e., they had to comply with minimum criteria for
environmental impact and have internal economic rates of return of 12% or higher. As the investment
required to implement the whole list would be quite substantial, the Government decided to implement
the program in two phases. The proposed loan would finance the higher priority group of the two. The
priority criteria was to select from eligible candidate sub-projects (those that met the minimum
environmental and economic criteria) those which would defend, in each province, the most important
economic assets (normally the most populated cities), but limit the amount of investment in each
province in accordance with its counterpart funding capacity. This criteria would also allow all affected
provinces to participate in the project. This is required for implementation of the "nonstructural"
measures whose effectiveness would require participation of all provinces in the Basin.
3.6  It is proposed to structure the Loan so as to facilitate the possible incorporation of some "second
priority" list activities during project execution. In view of the provinces' disparate implementation
capabilities and performance, two annual reviews at early stages of implementation would be convened
to determine if the initial provincial allocations from the proposed loan require revision. During these
reviews, it would be possible to transfer funding from a slow-moving province to better performing
provinces. Also, when project implementation would be further advanced (to around 50%), a second
operation might be prepared for the implementation of the remaining economically sound sub-projects
(future "second priority" group). Annex 3 (Provincial Master Plans) gives details on the technical,
economical and environmental analysis of all sub-projects made during project preparation. Annex 6
(Project Description and Financing) gives a complete list of sub-projects included in group one (first
priority) and in group two (second priority). Annex 10 (Economic Analysis) gives details on the
methodology used for the economic analysis and a ranking list of sub-projects by their internal rate of
returns.
3.7  Institutional Framework:  This component would cover technical assistance for creating and
implementing the institutional framework in each province. It would fund consultants to help create
those frameworks and equipment (mainly computers and software) for the province's coordination units
on flood-related activities (see para. 2.34 to 2.46).
3.8   Flood Warning: The project would include: (i) installation of a new hydro-metering network
consisting of waterflow gauging stations with satellite connection to a central station at INCYTH for
input in a central data bank; (ii) installation of local computers connected to the central station to allow
every province to have unrestricted access to the data bank; (iii) improvements in the software for flood
forecasting, including its adaptation to allow some provinces to forecast local sub-basins.  This
mathematical model will be installed in INCYTH's central computer and in each province's local
computer; and (iv) creation of a provincial group responsible for flood-warning activities (see paras.



- 30 -
1.41, 2.52 and 2.54, and Annex 6). A training program for INCYTH's and provincial staff on the new
system would also be included in the project (see para. 3.13).
3.9   Shelters:    This component would fund the construction of 155 shelters (multi-purpose
installations) to protect affected population during floods in areas where "structural" works are not
justified. Those installations would follow prototypes developed by SUCCE and would be located
adjacent to existing schools or community centers to allow them to be used by the population in non-
emergency periods, as well as to facilitate their maintenance by the local municipalities (see paras. 2.52
and 2.55 and Annex 4).
3.10 Housing: In more remote areas where shelters would not be justified, the project would finance
the material for an estimated 5,000 self-constructed houses, following the successful experience with
the same number of units under the Rehabilitation Project. The same implementation team of the
previous project would be used; benefiting from the experience of a program that has really achieved
its objectives and helped the intended beneficiaries--poor families located in flood-prone areas. The
units would follow the same prototypes which are appropriate to meet flood conditions (either in higher
land or on piles), as well as the sanitary facilities not included in the previous project. They would be
43 square meters, with two bedrooms and a multiuse room. Approximately US$31 million would be
provided as grants to the low-income families. Building materials (about US$6,200 per house) are
expected to comprise about 80% of the construction cost. The provinces would provide land,
infrastructure, and technical and social assistance to the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries, who are
among the poorest families in the affected areas, would finance the remaining 20% through their labor
input. The units would be constructed on the same site or in the same neighborhood where the
beneficiary already lives to avoid resettlement problems (see Annex 4). The project would also finance
the services of specialists who would help organize community groups for mobilizing beneficiaries in
carrying out the program.
3..11 In order to avoid possible abuses, the voucher system employed in the previous project would
be used again. Beneficiaries would receive vouchers for tranches of materials for the unit construction.
These vouchers will be non-transferable, and could be drawn from any hardware supplier participating
in the program. They would specify the value, tranche limit, types of materials that can be purchased
and the sequence of such purchase. Hardware suppliers would redeem the vouchers locally under
conditions to be specified, and they would have to show proof of delivery of the materials to the
beneficiaries.
3.12 Local social workers would verify whether applicants meet program eligibility criteria. These
criteria, agreed upon during appraisal, would basically consist of the location of the existing house and
the flood-risk of the area, its adequacy to resist floods, the income level of the dweller, and agreement:
to the program. All beneficiaries would be required to sign a document stating, among other things,
that they: lived on the site for more than five years; the old unit was their only residence and they had
no other property; have legal possession of the land for the new unit; and plan to live on the new site
for at least five more years. If the land on which they plan to build the new unit belongs to someone,
else, the beneficiary must provide the signed approval of the owner allowing them to use the land. The



- 31 -
beneficiary would also agree to use the voucher system as stipulated and to comply with all of its
conditions, including that they would provide the labor for construction of the unit.
3.13  Project Implementation and Administration: This component would fund technical assistance
from consultants to help design the civil works and help supervise their construction. Consultant
services would also be used for reviewing and installing improved civil defense and emergency
procedures to be used during floods. In addition, technical assistance for the establishment and
organization of community construction groups would be provided to help the beneficiaries of the
housing component in their joint self-construction effort. The project would also include a training
program for INCYTH's and each province's staffs in the new flood warning system, and the civil
defense provincial groups to learn the new procedures. Additionally, the project would finance four
environmental programs. This component would also finance the services of project supervision and
the external auditors' regular audits of the project.
3.14 The environmental programs included in the project emerged from the environmental assessment
carried out during preparation. They would consist of: (i) environmental education and public
awareness in communities benefiting from flood protection works; (ii) strengthening of environmental
management capacity of the implementing agencies as well as environmental agencies; (iii) technical
assistance to communities and municipalities to improve urban environmental management and
monitoring, especially regarding the sound disposal of solid waste; and (iv) improvement in baseline
knowledge of ecology and dynamics of the riverine and floodplain ecosystem and in protection and
management of wetlands within the project region, especially near the urban areas (see Annex 5).
Project Costs
3.15  The total project cost, excluding interest during construction, is estimated at US$420.0 million,
of which US$251.3 million would be foreign costs. Costs are expressed in January 1996 prices and are
based on experience with the previous project (Loan 3521-AR) and other similar projects in the country.
Physical contingencies are 10% of base cost for goods and works (flood defense and shelters). Price
contingencies assume: (i) project execution in 1997-2001; and (ii) price escalation on base costs and
physical contingencies of 3.3% in 1996, 2.3% in 1997, 2.5% in 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001. A
summary of project costs is presented in Table 3.1. Project costs are expressed in US dollars because
of the parity between the dollar and the peso.



- 32 -
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million, January, 1996)
Component                   Local     Foreign    Total     Foreign       % of
as % of      Total
Total       Base
l_ _ _ _ _ _                    _________      C ost
A) Structural Measures                     110.5       167.0    277.5        60.2        75.9
B) Non-Structural Measures
BI) New Institutional Framework           0.5         2.0      2.5         80.0        0.7
| B2) Upgrading Flood Preparedness
(i) Shelters                          4.4        8.0      12.4        64.5         3.4
(ii) Housing                         18.0        13.0     31.0        41.9         8.5
(iii) Civil Defense                   0.2        0.5       0.7        71.5         0.2
B3) Early Flood Warning                   0.8         3.0      3.8         78.9        1.0
1B4) Project Implementation
(i) Environmental Programs            0.6        3.0       3.6        83.3         1.0
(ii) Consultants                      4.7       16.0      20.7        77.3         5.7
(iii) SUCCE                           5.0        4.2       9.2        45.6         2.5
(iv) Auditing                         0.5        1.0       1.5        66.6         0.4
(v) Training                                     0.5       0.5        100.0        0.1
(vi) Housing T.A.                     2.0                  2.0         0.0         0.6
Total Base Cost                     147.2      218.2    365.4         59.6       100.0
Physical Contingencies                      11.0        18.0     29.0        62.0         8.0
Price Contingencies                         10.0        15.6     25.6        60.9         7.0
Total Project Cost                  168.2      251.8    420.0         59.8       115.0
Interest during Construction                           68.0      68.0        100.0       18.6
Total Financing Required            168.2      319.8    488.0         65.4       133.6



- 33 -
Financing Plan
3.16 The total financing requirements (including interest during construction of US$68 million
equivalent), are estimated at US$488 million (of which US$319.3 million in foreign exchange). They
would be financed according to the plan shown in Table 3.2. The proposed Bank loan of US$20D
million would meet approximately 41% of total financing requirements. Cofinancing from the Exporl-
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) is at final stage of approval and, would finance US$120 million to cover
24.6% of the requirements. The provincial governments, would provide the US$168 million equivalent
balance, representing 34.4 %. Retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred after January 15,
1996, (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed US$20 million
is recommended.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Source                Amount       Percentage
(US$million)
Bank                             200.0          41.0%
JEXIM (Japan)                    120.0          24.6%
Provincial Governments           168.0          34.4%
Total Financing Required         488.0          100.0
3.17  During appraisal an allocation of financing resources by type of actions contemplated in the
project was agreed resulting in table 3.3--Sources of Financing.
Table 3.3: Sources of Financin2
(in US$ millions and %)
Category                 Provinces          Bank            JEXIM            TOTAL
___  __     _      S       %        $       %        S       %        $%            I
Works &               96.1    28.4   122.7    36.2    120.0  35.4    338.8   100.0
Goods
Housing                3.5    10.0    31.8    90.0                        35.3    100.0
Grants
Technical                              41.5    100.0                      41.5    100.0
Assistance & Training
Flood                  0.4     10.0     4.0      90.0                     4.4    100.0
W arming             _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Interest              68.0    100.0                                       68.0    100.0
during
Construction
Total                 168.0            200.0             120.0           488.0



- 34 -
3.18  The Bank loan would be made to the Argentine Republic. During appraisal, the Govemment
indicated its preference for a US-dollar single currency loan repayable over 15 years, including a five-
year grace period, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single
currency loans. This was confirmed during negotiations. Before negotiations, JEXIM confirmed that
the Japanese Government approved its participation in the co-financing. In the event JEXIM's funds
are not available, the government of Argentina would seek cofinancing from another source or the
project's size would be reduced with consequent postponement of some sub-projects to the second phase.
The Bank loan proceeds would finance all technical assistance, 90% of the housing grants, and joint-
finance with JEXIM the procurement of works and goods (at nearly similar proportions).
3.19 Proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to provincial governments eligible under this loan
with the same terms and conditions as Bank lending to the Argentine Republic. Provinces would
assume foreign exchange risk and would guarantee repayment with their revenue-sharing
("coparticipation") funds and each participating province would pay loan commitment fees. For
onlending to Provinces, the Borrower would enter into a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
each province. This agreement would also include provisions allowing the Central Government to send
part of the province's revenue-sharing ("coparticipation") funds directly to the SUPCEs to provide
adequate counterpart funding (in the event that a province is unable to mobilize such finance).
3.20  As conditions of disbursement of the subsidiary loans, each participating province would:
(a)   establish and ensure continuation of adequate staffing of its SUPCE;
(b)   execute a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   exempt all contracts for goods, works and services to be financed under the loan from
all legal and regulatory provisions limiting the international procurement of goods, works, and
services;
(d)   create the coordinating unit for flood-related aspects in the province assigning
responsibilities for coordinating actions with entities in charge of civil defense, flood warning,
hydraulic works, maintenance of flood-defense facilities, and environment (see para. 1.40, 2.44
and 2.53);
(e)   submit to its legislature the law defining institutional arrangements for flood-related
actions in flood-prone areas (see para. 2.41); and
(f)   provide a satisfactory legal opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Status of Project Preparation
3.21   Project preparation is completed.  The Parana Basin area hydrological study has been
completed. So has the Halcrow study which produced simulation models, flood probability scenarios,
and risk assessment estimates, as the basis for selecting the project sites and investments. A review of



- 35 -
the effects of past flooding likewise has been concluded, along with an assessment of the adequacy of
the existing legal framework for dealing with flood emergencies. Similarly, INCYTH's forecasting
capability was scrutinized, and this analysis identified requirements for modernizing early-warning aind
other information systems, as well as interconnecting national data facilities with the Basin provincial
services. In addition, the environmental assessment of the area, including the environmental analysis
of the proposed sub-projects (first and second priority groups) has been completed. Provincial master
plans have been prepared to identify and address flood protection priorities. A special Bank mission
took place after pre-appraisal but before appraisal, to carry out public consultations on the project and
to visiting the most sensitive sub-project sites to assess local environmental issues. Finally, the
economic analysis for the whole project and for each individual sub-projects has also been completed.
Implementation Arrangements
3.22 Implementation arrangements would remain essentially the same as in the ongoing Flood
Rehabilitation Project, except for changes to incorporate lessons of experience. SUCCE would remain
within the Under Secretariat for Assistance to the Provinces, and be the national executing agency for
the proposed project. SUCCE would retain its responsibility for overall project management, including
orientation and technical assistance to the provinces (directly and through the Project Operational
Manual) in the preparation, approval, control, and monitoring project implementation, as well as for
all financial and reporting transactions with the Bank. SUCCE would also retain its responsibility for
all aspects concerning sub-project evaluation, approval, and procurement, as well as reporting and
obtaining Bank approval of acquisitions and disbursements. SUCCE would also continue to provide
proper coordination and policy consistency between the proposed operation and other sector-specific
projects proposed by the provinces (see paras. 2.27, 2.28 and Annex 7).
3.23 SUCCE would continue to be subordinated to the Central Executing Unit (CEU) of SSAP.
SUCCE would continue to be headed by a chief executive assisted by a team of high-level consultants
in the several infrastructure sectors of the operation. An individual consultant would continue to act
as General Supervisor with responsibility for monitoring the project independently and reporting to
SSAP.
3.24 In each province the project would be implemented by the corresponding SUPCE (Sub-Unidad
Provincial de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia). The SUPCEs would be responsible for formulation,
implementation, and supervision of provincial sub-projects. The SUPCEs would be responsible for
procurement, contracting, and submission of disbursements, subject to review by SUCCE. A Project
Operational Manual (POM), agreed upon during appraisal, will provide guidance and establish standards
for all aspects of project implementation (see Annex 7). Agreement has also been reached on project
performance indicators (see Annex 12). All those agreements were confirmed during negotiations.



- 36 -
Monitoring and Reporting
3.25  SUCCE and each SUPCE would keep adequate records as detailed in the POM. Successful
implementation of project objectives also will require intensive monitoring of actual performance by
both the SUCCE and the Bank. To facilitate this supervision, the SUCCE will prepare and furnish to
the Bank a progress report on project execution of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request not later than April 30, August 31, and December 31 of each year. The terms of reference for
these reports would be basically the same as for the previous project. SUCCE would use the monitoring
indicators described in Annex 12 to evaluate project implementation in the progress reports.
3.26 Several lessons of experience from the previous project and other lending related to provincial
development in Argentina have been incorporated to streamline project execution. To increase the cost-
effectiveness of review of technical proposals and procurement documents, thresholds for prior review
by SUCCE and the Bank were carefully reviewed in the development of the POM so as to balance cost
with risk. In addition, procedures for review of procurement documents were streamlined, and all
provinces will be required to use standard procurement documents approved by the Bank (para. 3.29),
copies of which will be included in the POM. To improve sub-project management, the POM will
require that all sub-project proposals contain a timetable for all main stages of sub-project execution in
an agreed format. These timetables are expected to provide SUCCE with more reliable information,
thereby permitting more adequate projections needed to plan sub-project review.
3.27 The timely implementation of the project depends on adequate financial resources being available
when needed and on good performance (especially quality and speed) of the local implementation units
(SUPCE). For this reason, Government-Bank meetings would take place every year, within three
months of the conclusion of each fiscal year, to review project progress and assess its implementation
in each province. Three meetings would be of particular importance: the one to be held not later than
March 31, 1998, (the "first mid-term review meeting") another to be held not later than March 31,
1999, (the "second mid-term review meeting") and a third to be held not later than March 31, 2000 (the
third mid-term review meeting). As discussed in para. 3.6, the Bank and the Government then might
move some investment sub-projects from the second group (e.g., in provinces with a good
implementation record) to replace sub-projects in the first group (in provinces showing delays in project
implementation). In view of the experience during the implementation of the previous project, frequent
Bank supervision would be required, particularly during the first year of implementation when very
frequent field missions (four in one year) are recommended. Planned Bank supervision inputs are
shown in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audits
3.28 An audit of the financial status of the program would take place once a year for the SUCCE
components and for each participant province (SUPCEs).  Audits would be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference (TORs) similar to those used in
the previous project (Annex 12 presents draft TORs prepared during appraisal). The audit reports
would be sent to the Bank not more than six months after the end of the calendar year. The report
would include, inter alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of financial resources and their use; (b)
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs); and (c) implementation of contracting clauses, including the
application of eligibility criteria, and compliance with procurement procedures and other financing
conditions included in the POM.



- 37 -
Procurement
3.29 Procurement would be undertaken by the SUPCE of each participating province and reviewed
and supervised by SUCCE, which would also be responsible for procurement actions for the Nation's
part of the project. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) purchasing would use the Standard IBRD
Bidding Documents for the procurement of works and goods. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
purchasing would be based on agreed standard bidding documents for the procurement of works and
goods. For works, those documents would be a Spanish version of the Bank standard bidding
documents for procurement of works for small contracts dated January 1995. For goods, the Spanish
version of the Bank bidding document for ICB would be used. All of these documents would be
included in the POM whose approval by the Borrower on terms satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness.
3.30 The housing grants would follow the same successful scheme used in the previous project. The
SUPCEs would divide the cost of construction material into six vouchers corresponding to the main
stages of construction. Then, the SUPCEs would select suppliers for the corresponding materials
through a procurement process on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified local
suppliers in response to a written invitation. Based on the price of the lowest bidder, all suppliers who
decide to follow that price would sign an agreement to supply materials at that price. The beneficiaries
would be free to select the supplier from those so selected by the SUPCEs to deliver the material. This
system has worked very successfully in the previous project when houses were constructed in 92
different locations.
3.31  Contracts for civil works expected to cost US$5 million or more (to account for approximately
US$106.4 million, or 33% of total civil works costs) and for goods expected to cost US$350,000.00
or more (to account for approximately US$16.2 million, or 99% of total costs of goods) would be
awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for works
expected to cost US$350,000 or more, but less than US$5 million (to account for approximately
US$215.4 million, or 66% of total civil works costs), and contracts for goods expected to cost more
than US$100,000, but less than US$350,000 (approximately US$0.2 million, or 1% of total project
costs), would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement for
goods costing less than US$100,000 (up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000) would be carried out
through national shopping. Works costing less than US$350,000 (approximately US$1.0 million) would
be procured under lump-sum contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
qualified contractors in response to written invitation. The invitation would include detailed description
of the works, specifications, in a form acceptable to the Bank. The award would be made to the
contractor with the lowest evaluated bid. Satisfactory procedures for NCB and for procurement of small
works would be included in the POM.
3.32  Technical assistance consisting of consultant and auditing services, expected to cost
approximately US$45 million, or 12% of total project costs, would be procured in accordance with the
corresponding Bank Guidelines. This amount includes the development of the new flood warning
system which would comprise the development of a turn-key package of software and hardware, as well
as transfer of technology and specific training. This system would be procured under ICB. Other



- 38 -
training expenditures would be approximately US$0.5 million. All procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: Procurement Method by Category
(US$ millions, January 1996)
Category                     Procurement Method I   N.B.F a' Total Cost
ICB    NCB   Other wi
Civil Works                 106.0   215.4    1.0              322.4
l ___________________________  (36.5)  (79.5)  (0.3)          (116.3)
Goods                        16.2            0.2               16.4
(6.3)          (0.1)               (6.4)
Technical Assistance                        41.0              41.0
(41.0)            (41.0)
Flood Warning System        4.4                                4.4
(4.0)                              (4.0)
Housing Grants                              35.3              35.3
(31.8)            (31.8)
Training                                     0.5               0.5
.______  _______  (0.5)             (0.5)
Total Project Cost          126.6   215.4   78.0              420.0
Bank Total                 (46.8)  (79.5)  (73.7)            (200.0)
a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
v National shopping, small works, special procedure for housing materials, and hiring of auditors and consultants in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
' Not Bank financed.
3.33 Rehabilitation, completion of works, and new investments would be undertaken in accordance
with Bank guidelines. To ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are properly carried out, the
SUCCE and the Bank would review ex-ante all procurement procedures, documents, bid evaluations
and contract awards for ICB procurement of goods and works during the entire project implementation
period. In addition, the SUCCE would review ex-ante the procedures for all other procurement of
goods, works and consulting services in each province. The Bank would review ex-ante the TORs and
all documents of each contract for hiring consultants, except for contracts in which: (i) individual
consultants are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than US$50,000 or (ii) consulting firms
are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than US$100,000, when the Bank would review ex-
ante only the TORs. Prior Bank and SUCCE review of procurement procedures of work, goods and
consulting services is summarized in Table 3.5. Following the procedures defined in this table, the
Bank would review ex-ante about 40% of the total cost of all procurement done under the project (and
SUCCE would take over Bank's prior review based on past project experience).
3.34 In all cases not subject to Bank ex-ante review, however, the Bank would review contracts
awarded under NCB, limited NCB procedures, and consultant selections on an ex-post sample basis.



- 39 -
If it were determined that procurement was not carried out following agreed procedures, no expenditures
for such items would be financed from the proceeds of the loan, the Bank would cancel the
corresponding loan amount, and the Special Account would be reimbursed accordingly by the Borrower.
This effort should not only streamline project execution but also reduce the Bank's supervision burden.
However, if a particular province fails to comply with the agreed procedures, their project proposals
would be required to return to ex-ante review.
Table 3.5: Summary of Procurement Review Procedures
Category          Procedure to be used by    Prior Review by    Prior Bank Review
the SUPCEs            SUCCE
Works
Less than US$350,000       Three Quotations       All                two/year"
US$350,000-US$5 million    NCB                    All                two/year
US$5 million or more       ICB                    All                All
Goods
Less than US$100,000       Shopping               All                two/year"
US$100,000-US$350,000      NCB                    All                two/year
US$350,000 or more         ICB                    All                All
Consulting Services                     __
a) Individual                     _
Less than US$50,000        Contract               All                TOR
US$50,000 or more         [Contract               All                All
b) Firms
Less than US$100,000       Contract                l                 TOR only'2
US$100,000 or more         Contract              All                 All
/1 The Bank would review the evaluation report.
/2 Full Bank prior review will also apply to all consulting contracts of a critical nature and to single selection of frins regardless of the value of contract.
3.35 The capacity of SUCCE and the SUPCEs for effective implementation review of procurement
documents has improved greatly during the execution of the previous project, and there is now a strong
core of professionals in SUCCE. SUCCE would continue to have an expert on procurement and a legal
advisor satisfactory to the Bank for prior review of the SUPCE's procurement actions, reducing
therefore the Bank prior review burden. The experience with the previous project has also allowed the
provincial implementing agencies (SUPCEs) to develop good capacity for procurement actions and
thorough familiarization with Bank guidelines.  To expedite procurement, during appraisal the
procurement was divided into 93 bid packages for works and six bid packages for goods as detailed in
the procurement plan also agreed during appraisal and described in Annex 9. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that, as a condition of disbursement of the subsidiary loan agreement for each
province, all contracts for goods, works and services to be financed under the subsidiary loan would
be exempted from all legal and regulatory provisions that would otherwise prevent procurement of
goods, works, and services according to Bank guidelines.



- 40 -
Disbursements
3.36 The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over five years. The
disbursement schedule reflects the experience with the previous project. To withdraw the proceeds cf
the proposed Bank loan, the following categories and disbursement percentages are proposed:
(a) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance (consisting of consultant services,
institutional strengthening, audits, and training);
(b) 90% of total expenditures for acquisition of the Flood Warning System including
equipment, software, consultant services and associated training for transfer of know-how;
(c) 36% of expenditures for works and goods under all categories; and
(d) 90% of expenditures of amounts disbursed in vouchers for housing materials.
3.37 A Special Account in US dollars would be established in the Banco de la Naci6n Argentina withl
a maximum deposit of US$12 million, estimated to cover four months of average expenditures to be
financed from the Special Account. The account would be replenished monthly according to Bankc
procedures. The Special Account would be managed by SUCCE. All disbursements against contracts
for less than US$5 million for works, for less than US$350,000 for goods and services, for less than
US$100,000 for consultant firms, and for less than US$50,000 for individual consultants, and for all
housing vouchers expenditures would be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by SUCCE
and made available for inspection by Bank staff. All other disbursements would be made against
standard documentation. The POM will specify that SUCCE would continue to monitor financing over
the life of the project to assure that satisfactory central and provincial government counterpart financing
is maintained. The expected completion date would be December 31, 2001, and the closing date would
be June 30, 2002. Attachment 6 of Annex 9 shows the estimated disbursement schedule.
Project Benefits
3.38 The proposed project would reduce the loss of life and devastation of property during major
floods. Major benefits would accrue from the fuller restoration of the damaged infrastructure in one
of the most productive areas of the country and the area closest to Brazil and Paraguay, two of
Argentina's partners in MERCOSUR. The reduction of the frequency and range of flood-caused
damage would improve the efficiency of the productive and commercial sectors in this area and reduce
the damage to transport facilities, thus facilitating Argentina's competitiveness within MERCOSUR.
The project works also would reduce health hazards and waterborne diseases in flood-prone areas.
Other benefits would include the provision of substantially more flood-secure housing and the generation
of sizeable civil works and construction employment.



- 41 -
Economic Inpacts
3.39 The negative economic impact of previous floods was very high. Conservative estimates of the
1983 flood indicate losses of about US$1,790 million (in 1993 US$ dollars) and US$905 million (also
in 1993 values) for the 1992 flood. These estimates include only direct costs suffered by the local
economy due to damage caused by floods, such as the: cost of evacuation, rehabilitation of houses and
public buildings, rehabilitation of transport systems (roads, bridges, railways, and ports), rehabilitation
of water and sewerage systems, losses of crops and animals, and losses of industrial products
manufactured. No social cost or indirect cost associated with reduction of economic activity was
evaluated. As part of the preparation of this proposed project, a first approximation was made under
conservative economic assumptions (considering only the above-mentioned direct damage avoided costs
as a lower bound evaluation for benefits) of a flood protection program in the Basin. This study
concluded that for an investment level of up to US$800 million the expected internal economic rate of
return (IERR) of the project would be around 30%, or a net present value of US$1,324 million at a
discount rate of 12%. These preliminary estimates were later confirmed by the Halcrow study (see
Annex 2).
3.40 The proposed project includes flood-defense works in different provinces. Each sub-project was
analyzed from its technical, environmental and economic aspects. The proposed sub-projects met
minimum criteria of positive net present value at a discount rate of 12%. All represent the alternative
with the highest net present value for overcoming the local problem. In all economic calculations, both
at regional analysis and sub-project analysis, cost streams include the capital cost of proposed works
and the maintenance costs associated with their future operation. Investments were considered to have
50-year life spans.
3.41 Benefits were estimated as the direct "avoided damage cost" of future floods. Those direct costs
refer only to the estimated rehabilitation costs of existing facilities and infrastructure, like roads, house:s,
lost crops, etc., calculated from data on past floods. No indirect, economic or social costs associated
with past floods (or likely to result from future ones) were considered, resulting therefore in a lower
bound of benefits for the project. To evaluate the direct avoided damage costs, an analysis was made
to assess the flood risk (using the river mathematical model developed by Halcrow). This analysis
generated a risk curve associating probability versus damage associated with that probability.
Correspondingly, the average or expected damage cost was calculated for conditions with and witho i
the project (considering the expected degree of flood protection from the project, also calculated frora
the risk study). The difference was considered as an estimate of the benefits. Using this methodology,
the sub-projects were ranked as indicated in Annex 10. For the project as a whole, SUCCE hired a
consultant who reviewed the results of the preliminary study, however using more conservative criteria
for evaluation of benefits (only direct damage costs caused by floods). These studies gave a final
estimate of an IERR of 22.2% for the "structural" component of the project investments in flood
protection) and of 20.4% for the project as a whole. The IERR of each sub-project was calculated (see
Annex 10 for a complete list) and ranged from 79.2% to 11.8%, with the following distribution:



- 42 -
IERR (%)      No. of Sub-projects  Percentage
11.8-15.0            7               15.2
15.0-20.0           16               34.8
20.0-25.0            5               10.9
25.0-30.0            7               15.2
30.0-40.0            6               13.0
over 40.0            5               10.9
Total             46               100.0
3.42  Sensitivity analyses were also carried out in the project economic assessment to evaluate the
variation of the IERR in the cases of: (i) an increase in investment costs of 17.4% (contingencies used);
(ii) an increase in benefits considering indirect benefits limited to 20% of the direct ones; (iii) a delay
in beginning project implementation of five years (continuing the country to support to flood risk
evaluated as the annual "avoided cost" by the project). The results of this analysis was:
Scenario                         IERR (%)
Whole Project
Base Case                                                  20.4%
Costs increased by 17.4%                                   17.4%
Benefits increased by 20%                                  24.6%
Costs increased by 17.4% and Benefits increased by 20%     20.9%
Project delayed five years                                  7.5%
'Structural Measures' only
Base Case                                                  22.2%
Costs increased by 17.4%                                   19.0%
Benefits increased by 20%                                   30.6
Costs increased by 17.4% and Benefits increased by 20%     22.5%
3.43 An additional sensitivity analysis was carried out to estimate the deviation of the IERR due to
risk of data used in the evaluation. A mathematical model using Montecarlo probabilistic approach was
used. It makes a statistical analysis of data with a variance coefficient of 7% and using stochastic
calculations generates a series of NPVs and IERRs. As this analysis aimed to assess the sensitivity to
data risk, it was only carried out for the "structural" measures. The result of this analysis indicated an
average IERR of 22.2% (equal to the deterministic value calculated before) and a range of variation
between a maximum of 32.0% and a minimum of 15.5%.
3.44 Annex 10 also describes the economic assessment of the project's housing and shelter
component. The IERR which these studies estimated for solely direct benefits were 14.7% for housing
and 16.0% for the shelter activities.
Project Sustainability
3.45    The investments in civil works would aim  at protecting existing infrastructure.  Their
sustainability would be enhanced by the proposed project conditions governing future operations and



- 43 -
maintenance of these facilities. The required new local laws and river-basin-wide coordinating
arrangements should help strengthen the provincial governments' flood preparedness and mitigationi
systems. The proposed carryover of the experience and competent staff of SUCCE and the SUPCEs
should provide a strong basis for sustaining project works. The amount of investment in each province
and the financing plan (with JEXIM participation) were taken into consideration to adapt provincial
counterpart requirements to their financial implementation capacities in order to assure sustainability
of implementation.
Program Objective and Poverty Categories
3.46 The project aims to help the environmentally sustainable development of the provinces (Category
EN) by reducing and, to some extent, avoiding the economic losses caused by frequent flood;
throughout the Parana Basin. It would also stimulate employment generation in the construction sector,,
and improve physical and social infrastructure. Project implementation is expected to generate about
33,500 person-years of construction employment, or the equivalent of 6,700 persons permanently
employed during the five-year project period. Other sectors would also benefit from new jobs in
transport, and supply of goods and other services to the project. The housing component, in particular,
would improve the living conditions of lower-income segments of the population.
Environmental Impacts
3.47 This project is classified as category A. Positive environmental consequences are envisaged frorri
the fuller restoration of damaged health, water, sewerage, and housing facilities. The provision oif
additional security against floods would improve environmental conditions, e.g., lessen soil erosion and
reduce or eliminate drainage congestion duration with consequent reductions in health hazards. Positive
benefits also accrue from fuller public participation, especially regarding environmental aspects of flood
protection proposals. A regional environmental assessment for the entire Basin was carried out in
accordance with terms of reference approved by the Bank. A seminar for public consultation on the
project and for comments on the preliminary environmental assessment report was held in Buenos Aires.
in May 1995. The seminar included participation of provincial public entities and national ancl
provincial Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Regional environmental issues--associated with
floods--will be addressed through the provision of technical assistance, training and some basic:
equipment to SUCCE and to the provinces to: (i) promote urban environmental infrastructure
diagnostics and urban expansion planning; (ii) improve wetland protection; (iii) strengthen environmental
assessment capacity of flood protection projects; and (iv) develop environmental education programs
in communities benefiting from flood protection works (see para. 3.14). The final environmental
assessment report has been completed and was discussed at a public seminar during appraisal. The final.
report is available to the public in Buenos Aires and at the Bank's Public Information Center. Ar
executive summary was prepared by the Government and was circulated to the Board prior to appraisal.
Annex 5 "Environmental Assessment" summarizes the principal findings and recommendations of the
environmental work carried out during project preparation.
3.48 Each sub-project included in the project (either in the first and second priority group) war'
subjected to a detailed environmental assessment during project preparation. Sub-projects were screened



- 44 -
for: (i) compliance with the project's basic philosophy of protection of existing infrastructure and noni-
promotion of urban expansion in high risk areas; (ii) minimum interference with natural flood processes;
and (iii) minimum effects on sensitive ecosystems. All sub-projects selected met these conditions.
These studies concluded that the sub-projects' negative effects would mainly be highly localized and
short-lived. Moreover, the areas affected are so small in relation to the total floodplain as to virtually
preclude any regional impact at the macro level. Nonetheless, the design and construction of those sub-
projects with adverse implications include mitigation and monitoring measures, which will be included
in the bidding documents. In addition, the POM will include suitable guidance for contractors to
follow.
3.49 While some housing would be built under the project, there is no resettlement involved (as
discussed in para. 3.10 and Annex 4), particularly as participation in this aspect of the program is
entirely voluntary. In addition, the main civil works were thoroughly screened to avoid any involuntary
resettlement.
Participatory Approach
3.50 Project preparation took into consideration the results of extensive consultations with local
communities and all affected municipalities. The consultants who prepared the Master Plans were
responsible for gathering data and obtaining feedback from the communities involved. The SUPCEs
also made contacts with all municipalities in the affected areas. Public hearings were held in areas in
which works are envisioned. They were very productive, resulting in modifications to the original
engineering solution in some locations due to suggestions from local communities (e.g., in Gualeguay,
Resistencia and Goya). Two seminars with participation of several governmental agencies units (central
and provincial) and NGOs were held during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions to discuss the
project and its environmental assessment report.  Project implementation will also seek strong
community participation, especially in: (i) the installation of the emergency family shelters; (ii) the
housing component based on self-construction by community groups; (iii) the maintenance and operation
of some components of the early flood warning system; and (iv) enforcement of the regulations on land
utilization, particularly where it includes restricted use of land (see Annex 11).
Program Risks and Safeguards
3.51 There are four possible risks: (a) time and cost overruns; (b) inadequate management and
control due to weak, bureaucratic public entities in the provinces; (c) possible abuses in the housing
component; and (d) lack of counterpart funds for project implementation. During preparation, steps
were taken to address these issues and design suitable safeguards. The major risk concerns timely
project implementation. Therefore, project management was streamlined based on the experience gained
in risk management during the previous project. In this connection, the project would be implemented
by the same units (SUCCE in the central government and the SUPCEs in the provinces) that are
successfully implementing the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR). Additionally, a full-time,
independent supervising engineer reporting to SSAP would again be hired. Adequate funding for
technical assistance has been included in the project to help reduce implementation risks. The housing
component was designed following the excellent experience with the use of vouchers for acquisition of
material used in the previous project. The same management systems would be used (no cases of abuse
have occurred in the previous project). To reduce counterpart funding constraints, cofinancing is being
pursued to design a financing plan of the project which would permit the provinces to ensure sufficient



- 45 -
resources for project works, as well as transfers of Federal "coparticipation funds' to the SUPCEs'
accounts. The aforementioned contingent arrangements for possible transfer of funding from slow-
moving provinces to better performing provinces (ref. para. 3.6) should contribute to effective project
implementation.
Fimancial Benefits
3.52 The borrower has considered the Bank's alternative loan term options--currency pool loan,
LIBOR-based single currency loan and fixed rate single currency loan terms--and has indicated his
preference for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan terms, in order to improve the management
of its external liabilities. The choice of US dollar terms was motivated by a better match between cash
inflows and outflows in that currency, which is the base of the country's external commerce. The
Argentine peso is also legally tied to the US dollar under the convertibility law that govern the basic
principles of the Argentine economy. The LIBOR-based single currency loan was considered preferable
because of the long grace period and maturity offers. The borrower estimated that the risk posed by
the volatility of LIBOR-based single currency loan rating rate would be mitigated in the medium range;
short period higher rates would be compensated by subsequent periods of lower ratio, averaging a rate
in the same order of the fixed rate. However, the much better grace period and maturity would match
better the life span of the proposed investments.






- 47 -
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each province the Govemment will include a clause
by which the province will assign to its SUPCE (or to another agency acceptable to the
Government and to the Bank) permanent responsibility for coordination of actions of units in
charge of civil defense, flood warning, hydraulic works, maintenance of flood-defense facilities
and environment on flood-related issues (paras. 1.40, 2.44 and 3.20);
(b) in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each province the Govemment will include a clause
by which the province will assign to one of its agencies the responsibility for maintenance of the
flood-defense facilities and of the shelters (or show agreement with municipalities accepting this
responsibility), as well as to coordinate with the Coordination Unit (SUPCE) (para. 1.40);
(c) in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each province the Government will include a clause
by which the province will assign to one of its agencies the flood warning responsibilities and
of taldng part in the Basin flood warning system created among provinces and the Central
Government, as well as to coordinate with the Coordination Unit (SUPCE) (pam. 1.41);
(d) in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each province the Government will include a clause
by which the province will assign to one of its agencies the civil defense responsibilities and of
coordination with the Coordination Unit (SUPCE) (para. 1.42);
(e) in the subsidiary Loan Agreement with each province the Government will include a clause
by which SUCCE will not authorize any new commitments for contracts for implementation of
"structural" sub-projects in excess to 50% of the evaluated total cost of all first priority sub-
projects unless the Flood Protection Law has been enacted in that province. 'Non-structural"
measures could be implemented without restrictions (para. 2.41).
(f) proceeds of the Bank loan will be onlent to eligible provinces under the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan, with each participating province's revenue sharing serving as a
guarantee for repayment of sub-loans (para. 3.19);
(g) the implementation unit (SUCCE) will continue to be adequately staffed and otherwise
supported in the implementation of its responsibility under the project (paras. 3.20 and 3.23);
(h) an individual consultant will continue to act as the General Supervisor with responsibility
for monitoring independently the project and reporting to SSAP (para. 3.23);



- 48 -
(i) the project will be implemented in accordance with the Project Operational Manual (POM),
satisfactory to the Bank, which will not be amended without the Bank's prior consent (para.
3.24);
(j) the SUCCE will prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report on project execution of
such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request not later than April 30, August 31,
and December 31 of each year (para. 3.25);
(k) the national government and the Bank will exchange views annually on the status of project
implementation. During the mid-term reviews to take place in March 1998, March 1999 and
March 2000, the Bank and the Government would agree on the possible moving of some
investment sub-projects from the second priority group to the first group (para. 3.27);
(1) the Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited according to procedures, TORs
and with auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.28);
(m) procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines (paras. 3.29 to 3.35);
(n) the national government will open and maintain, a Special Account in US dollars (para.
3.37); and
(o) the SUCCE and SUPCEs will carry out project implementation, in a manner consistent with
the Bank's environmental policies and procedures (para. 3.48).
4.2   The following Conditions of Effectiveness were agreed:
(a) that for the participating province referred to in para. 4.2(b) below (except for the city of
Buenos Aires), a draft provincial law defining the institutional arrangements for flood-related
actions in flood-prone areas is submitted to the legislature of said province (para. 2.41);
(b) that a satisfactory subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered between the Borrower and
at least one province (para. 3.19);
(c) approval of the POM by the Borrower on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.24); and
(d) exemption by said participating province of all contracts for goods, works and services to
be financed under the loan from all legal and regulatory provisions that would otherwise prevent
procurement of goods, works, and services according to Bank guidelines.
4.3  It was agreed that the Conditions of Disbursement with respect to each province will be (para.
3.20) to:
(a) establish and ensure continuation of adequate staffing of its SUPCE;



- 49 -
(b) execute a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) exempt all contracts for goods, works and services to be financed under the loan from all
legal and regulatory provisions limiting the international procurement of goods, works, and
services;
(d)   create the coordinating unit for flood-related aspects in the province assigning
responsibilities for coordinating actions with entities in charge of civil defense, flood warning,
hydraulic works, maintenance of flood-defense facilities, and environment;
(e) submit to the legislature the provincial law defining institutional arrangements for flood-
related actions in flood-prone areas; and
(f) provide a satisfactory legal opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
4.4   Recommendation. With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$200 million to the Argentine Republic.






-51-                              ANNEX 1
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Legal and Institutional Framework
Flood Protection
1.    Argentina's national legislature is now considering passage of a law which would have
a significant effect on the legal framework for water resource management. It would better
define the rules which govern sovereignty over the country's rivers, and provide long-needed
clarification in this area.  The proposed law spells out the respective jurisdictions of national
control (for interprovincial navigation purposes) and provincial control for all other uses. It
would also serve to clarify the distinction between the provincial and federal governments over
the control and uses of natural resources in general.
2.    The proposed legislation states that provinces have the obligations and the rights to
determine river margins, demarcating private vs. public zones. Following on this, the new law
would encourage the provinces to demarcate borders and zones in order to establish land usage
restrictions. In addition, the new law recommends as a matter of public interest the rapid
evacuation of flood waters and the maintenance of adequate facilities for these purposes, making
use of the land use restrictions. In fact, the provinces already have the authority to create local
laws to provide a better framework for flood control and protection. Nonetheless, the
clarification that would result from the new Federal law would be useful in strengthening
provincial rules regarding water and land uses, as well as maidng them more comprehensive.
This would also provide a better basis than now exists for making plans and taking actions for
development of the long term economic use of the Parang Basin flood plains, along with a better
footing for environmental considerations.
3.    Further, the proposed new Federal law should help overcome one of the deficiencies of
existing provincial legislation with regard to flood controls: the absence of clear lines of limits
and restrictions on particular geographic areas. This gap has in several cases resulted in the
development of housing, industry and agricultural, as well as commercial activity in areas highly
vulnerable to flood damage. Furthermore, present provincial legislation does not adequately
provide for effective administration of these desirable rules, which impedes prevention or
reduction of flooding losses. Given this situation, the proposed project supports the creation in
each province of a law for the following purposes:
-     definition and preparation of maps of flood-prone areas classified by varying
degrees of risk, e.g., prohibited zones, zones with severe restrictions, zones with
partial restrictions, zones with warnings concerning floods and others;



- 52 -                             ANNEX 1
ability of private property owners to demarcate their lands under the same
categories, using the same procedures;
establishment of areas for appropriate protection of wildlife and vegetation;
adaption of tax rules and Government-supported credit or subsidy programs to
discourage development in risky areas;
introduction of requirements for evaluation of environmental impact in the
preparation of proposed new hydraulic works;
introduction of requirements for cost recoveries from beneficiaries of flood
control works, covering their maintenance as well as their construction; and
arrangements for coordination  among  different provincial organizations
concerning water resources and flood protection.
4.    In addition to the aforementioned provincial law, it would also be important for the
provinces to create and administer regulatory controls enforcing these policies. These would
apply, for example, to prohibitions on certain kinds of building construction and repairs,
building standards for security purposes, e.g., waterproofing requirements, obligations to destroy
obstacles to floodways, obligations to build and maintain private drainage and sewage disposal
systems with suitable protection against flood damage. The proposed project would provide the
required technical assistance for accomplishing these purposes.
Civil Defense
5.     A new proposed law referring to the civil defense system is also under consideration in
the Federal legislature. This relates to the circumstances of natural disasters and similar
emergencies, as opposed to war-time situations. This would be the first law providing for a
national system covering these circumstances. Its provisions cover the areas of coordination of
activities at all government levels, assistance to the provinces in these cases, and the elaboration
of training programs for public education. The law also attempts to combine the various
individual laws that now cover scattered portions of this topic. Another new element is the
designation of responsibility at the national level for these emergency-type cases in the Ministry
of Interior, while the Ministry of Defense retains the responsibility for war-related functions.
6.     For the first time also, the law defines responsibilities of individual civic organizations
for assisting in these cases, e.g., voluntary fire departments, private radio operators and the
general public. It does not provide for any financial or other resources to be supplied for
relieving natural emergencies.  On the other hand, it would stimulate the development of
broader public education and provincial systems in these circumstances. To complement these
actions, the proposed project would help the provinces to establish emergency provisions for
civil defense actions as well as to supply adequate training.



53-                              ANNEX 1
Institutional Setting
7.    There is a need for changes in the existing institutional arrangements for managing
flooding in the river basins and the related uses of lands and other resources. This is needed
both for the enforcement of the policy changes referred to above and the execution of the
program comprising the proposed Flood Protection project. In addition, suitable organizational
machinery does not now exist to bring together the different technical agencies concerned with
flood protection needs, as well as with decisions on land and water resources and their
environmental consequences.
8.     Chaco, Santa Fe, Corrientes and Entre Rios Provinces have an inter-provincial pact
relating to these matters. However, this is limited to inter-provincial collaboration in such
extreme emergencies that would overtax any single province's capability. Similarly, the "Comite
Hidrico de la Cuenca del Plata" established in 1983 did not meet the requirements, and in any
event is reported to have ceased to function.
9.    Therefore, it is proposed under this project to construct a framework which would
provide for:
--within each province, creation of a system of central coordination of the proposed
regulatory changes, the maintenance of existing flood control operations and facilities, the
execution and maintenance of new flood control operations and facilities, the related flood
warning and environmental protection measures, the expanded civil defense functions, and
planning of future measures in these fields; and
--among the provinces, a system of information contacts and exchanges designed to
produce coordination of planning, carrying out and evaluating policies and programs in these
various fields.
10.   The provincial scheme calls for a central coordinating unit to rely on individual
organizational entities (which mainly already exist) for carrying out their assigned functions in
these fields, e.g., public works, planning, irrigation, hydropower, etc. The proposed central
unit would oversee these technical and other entities, rather than replace or duplicate them.
Similarly, the scheme calls for essentially collaborative ties among the seven Parand Basin
provinces in order to coordinate policies and exchange information on matters of mutual interest,
e.g., the monitoring of meteorological data about possible storms. Should two or more
provinces wish to undertake new hydraulic projects in their areas, they could establish separate
organizations for developing and carrying out such activities.






- 55 -                           ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
The Halerow Study
1.   The preparation of the proposed project was basically founded on a new river basin-wide
assessment, the "Study of the Regulation of the Alluvial Valley of the Parana, Paraguay and
Uruguay Rivers for Flood Protection." This was carried out by an international consulting firm
(Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd. of England) under financing from the Flood Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 3521-AR). The study was conducted during April-September 1994.
2.   The study's terms of reference called for:
(a) examination of the Basin from physical, socio-economic and legal aspects;
(b) preparation of a methodology for assessing Basin flood risk, including development of
a mathematical model and construction of maps showing different risks in the flood
plain; and
(c) proposal of measures to reduce the Basin's susceptibility to flood damage and losses.
3.   The consultants' report comprised twelve volumes.  The portion dealing with the
definition of the Parana Basin problems covered geomorphology, hydrology, hydraulics, the
area's socioeconomic resources, its urban and regional planning, environmental aspects, and
flooding damages and losses. The volume which addressed management and regulation policies
for the alluvial valley recommended a methodology for these purposes. It also treated valley
planning, regulation of regional natural resources utilization, pilot area studies and a geographic
information system. It furthermore made proposals on legal and institutional aspects. An
additional volume dealt with the development and evaluation of "structural" protection measures,
and the final volume recommended actions in the fields analyzed.
4.   The highlights of the Halcrow study include the: (a) analysis of the frequency and
severity of the atypical Basin flooding over the previous 15 years, concentrated on their causes
and consequences; and (b) the diagnosis of the past measures regarding Paranl Basin
management and proposals for its better integration.
5.   The study provides a comprehensive definition of flood risk levels in different Basin areas.
It developed the mathematical model required for that purpose, including simulations based on
and analyses of existing hydrological data and mathematically generated series to cover large
periods of recurrence. Maps defining areas of flood risk were developed based on hypotheses
of recurrence of 20 and 100 years, and the largest area of flood coverage ever recorded (limit
of the alluvial valley). These maps also indicated the maximum extent of the surface and area



- 56 -                            ANNEX 2
of influence of the river that could be expected during a normal year. The study also
encompassed proposals for a river basin-wide approach, requisite legal and institutional
framework reforms, and a preliminary hydrological and environmental assessment of the region.
6.   Significant features of the study include the intention through the river basin approach to
achieve more coordinated management of the alluvial valley. This, among others, represented
an effort to break away from the previous "vicious cycle" of "investment-damage-new-structural
protection investment." The study made another important contribution in examining the costs
of past floods in the Basin's river valley, and relating these findings to a determination of which
additional investments in protection works would be economically justified. Moreover, the
consultants linked the application with these justifiable flood control measures for urban centers
or strategic sites with a "living with flood strategy" for rural and other less important centers,
concentrating the latter on improved prevention and warnings.
7.   A more detailed account of the Halcrow study follows:
Flood Risks
8.   The study mapped Basin areas in terms of various flooding risks, based on assumptions
of recurrence of 20 and 100 years. This is illustrated in the attached maps IBRD No. 27720,
27721, and 27722. Map IBRD No. 27720 gives the general localization of flood risk maps,
showing the whole region studied and how it was divided in sub-regions, each covered by one
specific map. Map IBRD No. 27721 shows the flood risk zones for the area of Corrientes,
Chaco and Formosa, corresponding to the area of map 3 indicated in the previous map (IBRD
27720). This map shows line limiting zones of different flood risk recurrence times--annually
(blue), 20 years (dotted red), and 100 years (red). Map IBRD No. 27722 shows the flood risk
zones in the vicinities of the city of Formosa in greater detail (greater scale). These studies will
enable SUCCE and SUPCEs to determine the principal land-use sectors to be mapped for the
flooding damage analysis. They also led to the Province's preparation of the Master Plans
reflecting the different extent of damage vulnerability of the population and strategic
infrastructure.
Institutional and legal framework
9.   The study proposed legal and institutional instruments, which enabled SUCCE to prepare
a draft of recommended new provincial legislation (see Annex 1). This was done based on the
result of the flood risk analysis carried out and on extensive analysis of the legal framework of
the water sector in Argentina. Accordingly, the study recommended a methodology for
regulating natural resource utilization of the areas affected by Basin flooding. The study also
recommended measures for coordinating regional agencies and enforcing land and related
resource use regulations.



- 57 -                            ANNEX 2
Data base and communications
10.  The study gathered valuable data in the areas of geomorphology, hydrology,
socioeconomic resources, and past flooding damages and losses. In all these areas, the study
recommends actions to improve information sources and update the data base.  These
recommendations form the basis of the proposed project's investments in the establishment of
hydrological measurement stations, and interconnecting and concentrating the information in
INCYTH facilities. They also underlie the proposals for provincial entities concemed with flood
protection to: (a) monitor geomorphologic changes in the area, with special emphasis on the
places with potential instability and subject to erosion; and (b) maintain a continuing system to
update socioeconomic resources data and to obtain other useful information.
Hydraulic models and geographic information
11.  The study defined flood-risk levels in different Basin areas using a hydraulic mathematical
model. The study also developed a Geographic Information System (GIS) and used it for the
modeling. (The consultants subsequently transferred the model and the GIS to the provincial
entities and INCYTH). The study recommended including other cities and more accurate
information in the GIS at a later stage, and continued improvement of the models. For better
future coordination of Basin management, the GIS would provide definitive flooding maps,
regional natural resources utilization regulations, environmental area classification, and accounts
of impact mitigation measures.
Environmental mitigation
12.  The study presented a preliminary environmental assessment of the whole Basin and
recommended the necessary measures to reduce the impact of flood protection actions, especially
in those zones where the periodic floodings affect sensitive ecosystems.  It provided an
environmental map at the regional level, defined ecosystems in terms of their importance and
ecological vulnerability, and established criteria for the uses of these areas.
13.  The consultants' proposals have also helped in the assessment of the provinces' master
plan works. The Halcrow study also recommended a long-term monitoring program of
environmental changes in the rivers and the flooding valleys.
Provincial master plans
14.  The study recommended local Master Plans for smaller areas in the provinces and a
methodology for their development. The main objectives of these plans were to evaluate the
flood mitigation measures to be implemented, propose several alternatives and recommend the
best options. These evaluations were to examine, among others, structural conditions of
embankments, the economic feasibility of proposed defense works and their environmental
impacts.






- 59 -                            ANNEX 3
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Provincial Master Plans
1.    As a result of the Halcrow Study preliminary identification of areas to be defended, each
participating province carried out studies to develop Provincial Master Plans. Those plans
recommended the necessary works to reduce the effects of recurrent floods in each area studied.
Those recommendations were based on engineering studies, economic analysis, environmental
considerations and public consultation. However, due to the high investment necessary to
implement all works, they were divided in two phases: the first phase, included in this project,
and a second phase, to be considered in a future project. Both phases are described below since
the design of this project may allow to advance some sub-projects from the second phase to be
included in this project (see para. 3.6 of maim text).
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
2.          In the northeastern part of the Province of Buenos Aires, hydrological problems
are largely caused by Parana River flooding originating from heavy spring and summer rainfall.
Its major difficulty is the flooding's long duration. Such effects as unusually high water levels
can last for several months in some zones. The second generic problem consists of high tides
and winter storms from the southeast ("sudestadas") in the Plate River area. These cause
significant increases in average water heights, at times of flood proportions.
3.    The "sudestadas" phenomena impedes drainage of flat surfaces of the area in the
Province's river basins, which affects urban centers in the riverside regions. They also impede
drainage of the Parana River too, causing flooding in the interior of the zone.   When the
"sudestadas" occur, and the Parana and Uruguay rivers are high, the combination of the two can
reach critical dimensions.
4.          Third, the area's flat surfaces interfere with its drainage, particularly when river
levels are low. This situation is complicated when it occurs simultaneously with heavy rains.
Furthermore, the Delta area formed by the confluence of the Parana and Uruguay Rivers
produces flows into the Plate River. Flooding in the Delta itself complicates the situation, just
as untreated wastes from its municipalities impedes public health protection in the area. In
addition, Parand River flooding problem is worsened by periodic, very intense rains that increase
the overflowing of internal tributaries. This contributes to the erosion of river margins that have
been reducing the coastal band and defenses.
5.          The Province's flooding problem in the riverside cities has been partially
addressed under the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR).  The provisional works
executed include defense, surface drainage, pumping stations and coastal erosion control. In



- 60 -                           ANNEX 3
addition, there have been rehabilitation of communications facilities plus new paving of surfaces
and water supply and sewage systems.
6.          In view of its large number of inhabitants and considerable sized area, the
Province of Buenos Aires has devoted a sizeable effort to identifying a set of measures and
works for improving the situation in the medium and long term. Based on these, the Province
has targeted remedial measures for the numerous Delta islands, which constitute the largest
segment of its proposed works under the recommended project.  The works would mainly
consist of construction of embankments which would enable area residents to maintain contact
with (and if necessary, evacuate to) the mainland, together with small culverts and bridges. In
the second priority, defense embankments also figure prominently in the proposed sub-projects
for the adjacent Tigre, San Fernando and San Pedro, and Escobar zones.
7.          A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project),
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:
8.   ISLAS DEL DELTA (DELTA ISLANDS)
First phase (Sub-project 100) Construction of embankments to maintain communication with the
mainland and to evacuate population, if necessary, during floods. Total soil movement
8,694,446 m3. Also, construction of culverts and small bridges along the embankment.
Second phase (Sub-project 115) Defense construction for isolated public buildings of high
importance to the community with "tablestacado" (stake-wall) and complementary works.
9.    CAMPANA
First phase (Sub-project 103): San Cayetano neighborhood (defense embankment construction,
including pumping stations, and slope surface protection with fertile soil and vegetation); and,
Colleta and SE neighborhood (construction and upgrading of rainfall drainage system including
the main conduct, which goes along Colleta street).
Second phase (Sub-project 110): Construction and upgrading coastal defense for Campana
waterfront with "tablestacado" (stake-wall) and raising the coastal road. In addition, raising
intemal roads in Campana.
10.   ZARATE
First phase (Sub-project 101):  Villa Bosch neighborhood (raising surrounding streets
transforming them in defenses); Villa Florida (construction and upgrading defense embankments,
rainfall drainage system, pumping stations and culverts); and, Villa Angus neighborhood
(continuation of the works carried out under the previous loan, including construction and
upgrading defense embankments, rainfall drainage system and pumping stations).



- 61-                            ANNEX 3
Second phase (Sub-project 109): Construction of south coastal defense in Zarate, to protect the
bank slope from erosion using sand bags and concrete blocks. Also in Zarate, rectification
(conduction capacity improvement increasing cross section) of Santa Lucia creek, defense
construction and upgrading of the defense in Santa Lucia, and construction and installation of
culverts and pumping stations.
11. SAN PEDRO
First phase (Sub-project 103): Construction and upgrading of embankments, rainfall drainage
system and pumping stations in "Canaletas" and "Bajo Puerto" neighborhoods. These works
are complementary to the project carried out under the previous loan.
Second phase (Sub-project 113): Construction and upgrading of embankments, rainfall drainage
system and pumping stations in Cazadores neighborhood. Also, the construction of the riverside
main sewer. These works are complementary to the project financed under the previous loan.
12. BARADERO
First phase (Sub-project 104): Construction of concrete drains to conduct the rainfall discharge
to Baradero river and bank slope surface protection, where the discharge is located, to avoid
erosion.
13.   ESCOBAR
Firstphas (Sub-project 105): Construction and upgrading of defense embankments, pumping
stations and rainfall drainage system in San Miguel neighborhood. Cleaning and rectification
of the main natural drain in Bedoya neighborhood.
Second phase (Sub-project 114): Construction of coastal protection with "tablestacado" (stake
wall), raising the access road to School No. 22.
14.   TIGRE
First phase (Sub-project 106): Construction of defense embankments and pumping stations in
"Dique Lujan" y "Villa La Nata" neighborhoods.
15. SAN FERNANDO
Second phase (Sub-project 112): Construction of coastal protection with "tablestacado" (stake
wall).



- 62 -                            ANNEX 3
PROVINCE OF CHACO
16.         The Province of Chaco encounters perpetual flooding problems largely because
of adverse hydrologic factors, complicated by a combination of intense rains and river overflow.
One of its manifestations is most visible in the case of the capital city of Resistencia, which is
located on the floodbed of the Parana River and its tributary, the Rio Negro. This makes it
particularly vulnerable to heavy flooding when the two rivers peak, which sometimes happens
simultaneously.
17.         The Province also faces heavy rains, especially in the Tapenaga Basin. These take
place during brief intervals, e. g., less than 15 days. The attendant flooding is exacerbated by
the lack of natural drainage under conditions of very flat topography and limited soil
permeability.
18.         These are aggravated, as evident in the urban center of the Tapenaga Basin, Saenz
Pena, (as well as Resistencia), by the past investment in inadequate drainage systems. Worst
still has been the build-up of housing, commercial and industrial facilities in badly located and
often low lying areas. Road and rail infrastructure development have served to hinder natural
evacuation of water movements.
19.         The on-going Flood Rehabilitation Project includes some activities in the areas
of Resistencia worst hit during the 1992 floods. These include investments in provisional
defenses, surface drainage, control structure on the Rio Negro, emergency pumping stations, and
coastal erosion control.
20.         The proposed project draws on the provincial authorities' "Plan Hfdrico Integral"
as revised by the specific master plan for the province. In it, the Province decided to first
concentrate on investments in Resistencia and the Tapenaga Basin, followed by upgrading of
bridges. The first mentioned was particularly recommended in the "Halcrow Study" as meriting
priority remedial attention because of these areas' vulnerability.
21.         The Resistencia sub-project consists mainly of sizeable reinforcement of existing
city embankments and other defenses, construction of new ones and expansion of rainfall
drainage systems. Construction of several canals and pumping stations is planned as well.
These investments were selected from among several alternatives keyed on reducing flood
dangers in urban zone of the capital city, economic rate of return, environmental concerns and
local community discussion and participation.
22.         Another Bank project is addressing the Tapenaga Basin's low-lying, subterranean
conditions.
23.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project)
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:



- 63 -                            ANNEX 3
24.   RESISTENCIA
First phase (Sub-project 200): Construction and reinforcement of the following defenses:
"north defense' which protects the Nicolas Avellaneda route; "northwest defense" which
protects the area between Route 11 and the Rio Negro; "Laguna Blanca" defense and water
intake defense on the Rio Negro; "southwest", "southeast" and "island" defenses which protect
other routes and human settlements. Also, construction of a rainfall drainage system (north and
south areas, including equipment), enlargement of existing canals, construction of embankments
for urban protection, pumping station installations, and road raising and complementary
installations. Construction of control infrastructure works at the interception point of the Rio
Negro and the Parana, including pumping stations and gates.
Second phase (Sub-project 201): Reinforcement of "Canal Soberanfa Nacional" and "Canal 16";
enlargement of pondage south; rehabilitation of Salado basin; improvements in "Terraplen
perimental Rio Negro" and "Terraplen Puerto Barranqueras"; and improvements in "Control of
Soberanfa Nacional".
25.   LAS PALMAS Y LA LEONESA
Second phase (Sub-project 202): Construction of embankments and urban rainfall drainage to
protect the cities of Las Palmas and La Leonesa.
26.   BRIDGES
Second phase (Sub-project 203): Raising and upgrading of bridges and accesses.
PROVINCE OF CORRIENTES
27.         The Province of Corrientes is bounded by the Parana River on the north and west,
the Uruguay River on the east, and their tributaries on the south. Its internal basins moreover
have several creeks,and lagoons covering more than a third of the Province's territory. These
overly abundant water resources, as well as the intensive area rains, contribute to extensive
flooding.
28.         Further, flooding of the Parana and Uruguay Rivers tends to be simultaneous,
reflecting the proximity of their high basins. Other disturbing natural phenomena are the
Province's poor structural conditions for flood protection: its generally low lying slopes and the
closed character of its natural depressions. These have been aggravated by the erosion of the
slopes of the Parana in the wake of sustained discharges during a typical river flooding. In port
areas, the sharp angle of riverside slopes has also been troublesome.
29.         As a consequence, flooding occurs in all the riverside urban centers in the wake
of the high water levels of the Parana and Uruguay. This problem is particularly severe in the
province's two largest urban centers: Corrientes and Goya. Other riverside urban areas affected



- 64 -                            ANNEX 3
are Ituzaingo, Itati and Paso de la Patria (Parana River), and Santo Tome, Paso de los Libres
and Monte Caseros (Uruguay River).
30.         These shortcomings have been aggravated by deficiencies in past measures taken
to deal with these problems.  The most troublesome of these are the insufficient drainage
facilities to handle the volume of flood waters stemming from the Parana's overflow and heavy
rains. Also, the temporary character of existing defenses has impeded natural surface flows as
well, especially affecting Esquina, Saladas, Bella Vista, Mercedes and Curuzu Cuatia. Further,
in several riverside urban centers, there have been problems due to the instability of coastal
defenses and the port infrastructure. In addition, there has been a lack of adequate erosion
control and surface protection of existing defenses.
31.         These conditions led to the Halcrow Study recommendation that major attention
be given to cities such as Goya because of their great vulnerability to flood damage.
Fortunately, there has already been some provisional relief provided to these cities under the
Flood Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 3521-AR). Its works have included defense, surface drainage,
pumping stations and coastal erosion control. In addition, there has been rehabilitation of
surface paving and communications and water supply systems.
32.         In addressing these problems, the provincial authorities have had master plans
developed mainly for Corrientes' principal cities. These emphasize defenses of Corrientes and
Goya, improvement of the principal works of the drainage system, reconstruction of coastal
defenses and port infrastructure, stabilization of riverside slopes, and raising of key bridges and
their accesses. Their plans additionally envisage housing and shelter improvements to protect
provincial residents who would not be covered by the proposed structural improvements.
33.         In line with this strategy, the proposed project includes a program of US$41.4
million for Corrientes Province. Its major components center around a US$31 million total of
improvements of urban defenses and drainage and erosion control works in Corrientes and Goya.
In the former, defense works would be limited to the flood-prone area of Barrio Anahi. The
envisaged sub-projects in Goya would focus on the present urban center plus the area of
residential expansion outside the alluvial valley. The works would consist largely of upgrading
embankments to consolidate the enclosure of recent provisional defenses and upgrading of
existing embankments plus rainfall drainage works.
34.         Other activities would include: (a) Bella Vista- defense works, urban stormwater
drainage and erosion control works; (b) Curuzu Cuatia- defense works, stormwater system and
canals; (c) Esquina-urban and rural drainage system and canals; and (d) Mercedes- urban
drainage and canals.
35.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the "first-phase" of the program (funded by this
project) and in the "second-phase" for a possible future operation. They are:



- 65 -                           ANNEX 3
36. BELLA VISTA
First phase (Sub-project 300): Construction of a subterranean rainfall drainage system for this
urban center, which evacuates the water to the Parana river in the INVICO (Instituto de la
Vivienda de Corrientes) neighborhood. Embankment surface protection with fertile soil and
vegetation, and with concrete structures where drains discharge in the Correa lagoon area.
Second pha  (Sub-project 307): The same components mentioned above, for the following
areas: Entre Rios, San Martin, Belgrano streets, Canale Av., and Cemetery zone. Drain
discharge protection in several sectors.
37. CITY OF CORRIENTES
First phase (Sub-project 301): Upgrading of rainfall drainage system and construction of new
ones in the following urban areas: F.J. de la Quintana, Laguna Seca, Hip6dromo, Industrial,
Canal 13 y Banado Norte. Canalization of Pirayui creek and conditioning of other existing
canals. Embankment construction in the north and south of the city. Construction of pumping
stations in Anahi neighborhood.
Second phase (Sub-project 307): Construction of rainfall drainage system in Limita creek basin
and "3 de abril" Av., pumping stations in Salamanca and Poncho Verde creeks.
38.   CURUZU CUATIA
First phase (Sub-project 302): Upgrading and construction of rainfall drainage system for Soler,
Sarmiento, Rodriguez Penia, Azcuenaga, Alberdi, Rivadavia, Pujol and Las Heras streets.
Second phas (Sub-project 308): Canalization and cleaning of Curuzu Cuatia creek, and defense
embankment on its right bank with the associated access for maintenance.
39.   ESOUINA
First phase (Sub-project 303): Upgrading of rainfall drainage system and construction of new
ones in urban (San Antonio neighborhood) and rural areas.
Second phase (Sub-project 309): Construction of a canal surrounding the urban center and Port
infrastructure rehabilitation.
40. MERCEDES
First phase (Sub-project 304): Upgrading of rainfall drainage system and construction of new
ones in urban areas. Canalization of "Las Garzas" creek and upgrading of the Bailey bridge.



-66 -                             ANNEX 3
Second phase (Sub-project 310):  A second stage of the rainfall drainage system which
complements the works initiated in the first phase.
41.   GOYA
First phas (Sub-project 305): Upgrading and construction of rainfall drainage system and
pumping stations. Defense construction of the city and upgrading of existing embankments,
raising them and protecting the slopes with vegetation.
Second phase (Sub-project 311): Canalization and upgrading of streams, construction of culverts
and bridges around the city. Upgrading of the defense, expanding the protection against floods
with longer periods of recurrence.
42.   BRIDGES
Second phase (Sub-project 312): Raising and upgrading of existing bridges, and the associated
upgrading of the accesses. In several cases, the construction of new bridges would be required
because the existing ones are obsolete and cannot be repaired.
PROVINCE OF ENTRE RIOS
43.         The Province of Entre Rios, which comprises the central nucleus of the Rio de
la Plata basin valley, is a flat undulating plain.  It is distinguished for its dense, extensive
hydraulic network, with more than two thousand bodies of water and countless canals. This
complex network includes the two major basins of the Parana and Uruguay Rivers plus six
smaller basins (including a delta). Nearly twenty percent of the Province's 78,781 km area
consists of lands subject to flooding and islands.
44.         The Parana runs against embankments of 60 to 80 meters above sea level, and
registers flows with mean value of 14,000 m3 per second and elevations over the normal water
level of seven meters. The Uruguay River widens in its southern section, developing low
margins with extensive sand banks and low slopes.  An additional feature is the 300-km
meandering course of the Gualeguay River with many tributaries. This causes the nearby soil
to be easily saturated, impeding river movements.
45.         Entre Rios' problems largely derive from the high flows of the Parana and
Uruguay Rivers and the "sudestadas" (southeastern winds of high velocity that raise the water
level). In addition, the periodic, very intensive rains increase flows from internal tributaries.
The subtropical climate in the northern part is marked by very abundant rainfall, e.g., La Paz
Department records show annual rains of 1,114 mm. The equally humid climate in southern
areas has never less than 900 mm of rainfall per year.
46.         The volume of river overflow from these sources increase its velocity and erosive
effects, continuously damaging the river bed and riverside coast. In some zones, very few areas



- 67 -                            ANNEX 3
are free of erosion.  Moreover, these natural causes have been worsened by extensive
exploitation of Entre Rios' natural resources. As a result, a large part of the Province now has
severely eroded sections, perversely in areas devoted to high value crops.
47.         One prime consequence of these factors is recurrent flooding in all the cities
adjacent to the rivers and several urban centers in the internal basins. The problem has been
exacerbated by unsuitable urban planning and drainage, along with the temporary nature of
existing flood defenses (which have impeded natural surface flows). Over the last two decades
there has been a steady movement of population into urban areas, now calculated to total 86
percent of all provincial residents.
48.         In several riverside urban centers too, there have been problems caused by the
instability of coastal defenses, poor port infrastructure and the sharp angle of the riverside
slopes. In addition, there has been a lack of adequate erosion control and of surface protection
of the existing defenses. All these forces have caused the emigration of part of the active
working population and an accelerated reduction of rural residents. With the aforementioned
population concentration in provincial cities, the floods and heavy rains have overtaxed water
and sanitation facilities and caused deficiencies in their and other urban services.
49.         These difficulties are being partially addressed under the Flood Rehabilitation
Project. Its works have included short run improvements in river defenses, surface drainage,
pumping stations and coastal erosion control. However, more permanent works need to be
undertaken.
50.         Given the serious, extensive nature of these difficulties, the Province chartered
the preparation of master plans in thirteen of its entities to address these problems.  These
included Colon, Concepci6n del Uruguay, Concordia, Diamante, Federaci6n, Gualeguay,
Gualeguaychu, Ibicuy, La Paz, Parana, Santa Elena, Victoria and Villa Parancito.  After a
critical assessment of possible remedial measures and good selection from various options, the
Province has prepared an ambitious program. Based on its quality and Entre Rios' flood
situation within the overall Basin, the Government has accorded the provincial program
substantial priority. The Entre Rios activities' total US$51.9 million.
51.         The provincial strategy is substantially concentrated on strengthening and adding
to riverside embankments and other defenses. Investments in these facilities are prominent in
the plans of nine of the 13 areas. They constitute almost 60 percent of the planned expenditures
for works in Entre Rios under the proposed project. Three prime examples include a US$11.5
million defense system in Gualeguay, a US$7.8 million coastal defense sub-project in
Concepci6n del Uruguay and a US$10.4 million sub-project centered around three new jetties
to protect 800 m of the river coast around Parana City.
52.         The second main strand of activity centers on widespread canal construction in
the numerous streams and brooks. Its principal case is the proposed US$17 million sub-project
for this purpose, combined with a new small reservoir, in the Concordia area. The remainder



- 68 -                            ANNEX 3
of the provincial program is focused on urban drainage systems, other erosion control activities
and drainage and pumping stations.
53.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project)
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:
54.   CONCEPCI6N DEL URUGUAY
First phase (Sub-project 400): canalization of "Las Animas" creek. Construction of a defense
embankment sufficient for protection against a 100-year flood height, including wave effect and
a safety margin, up to elevation 11.6 m, to protect Las Animas creek from Parana river floods.
Defense embankments would be provided with security illumination and electricity connection,
in particular for the water intake area. Reinforcement and raising of the existing concrete walls
protecting the water intake, and replacement of its electromechanical equipment with a
submersible pump.
55.   DIAMANTE
First phase (Sub-project 401):  River bank and bed protection, rainfall drainage system
rehabilitation and road restorations. Two lines of vertical drainage holes along river bank on
a total length of some 1,500m; a drainage canal 300m long and eight m wide at the bottom, with
sand replacement of the clay on the bed surface; rehabilitation of existing drainage canals and
construction of new canals (270m long) with geotextile and concrete cover; construction of
flexible culverts under the access roads; reconditioning of the Port access road and the railroad;
and rehabilitation of an 800m Port access road from Diamante city.
56.   SANTA ELENA
Second pha  (Sub-project 406): River bank and bed stabilization, and the construction of a
coastal embankment for 100-year flood recurrence. This embankment would allow direct access
to the water intake for proper operation and maintenance. It would have a length of some 1,400
m, a level of 7,83m and width of 11 m. Also, there would be train rail protection, illumination
of the area, and slope protection through the installation of flexible structure of concrete blocks
connected by a geotextile net. Works also include a stormwater drainage system with a sub-
surface drain 365m in length, located 3m below the surface.  Rain drainage would be
accomplished placing soil on the river bank and bed, and building drains to the river.
57.   LA PAZ
First phase (Sub-project 402): Construction of sand embankments in two areas along the Parana
river coast. The first would extend some 600m downstream from the port area and would have
a width of 3.5m and height of 24m. A rock cover and metal support (spikes) would stabilize
the river side of the embankment. Works would be complemented with rainfall drainage



- 69 -                           ANNEX 3
installations. The second embankment, which extends from "9 de julio" Street to "25 de mayo"
Av., would have a width of 7m and height of 24m. This would also include rain drainage
installations, embankment surface protection, and river bank and bed stabilization. This project
is complementary to the works already carried out under the previous loan.
Second phase (Sub-project 409): Restoration of the existing embankments and protection walls
in "Puerto Marquez" coastal side. This component is also complementary to the works already
carried out under the previous loan.
58. FEDERACION
Second phase (Sub-project 408): Coastal defense, rainfall drainage system improvement,
protection of bridge support structure from erosion and rehabilitation of the open drain over "La
Virgen creek.
59. GUALEGUAY
First phase (Sub-project 403): Complement the embankments already built under the previous
loan for the protection of Gualeguay City from river floods, on an extension of some 5,700 m,
and construction of associated culverts. Embankment would be five m wide at the top. In
addition, construction of culverts and pumping stations to remove floodwater from the protected
area.
Second phase (sub-project 409): Construction and upgrading of urban rainfall drainage systems
in the north sector. Also, water intake protection, including the replacement of the foundation
material, margin protection and intake pipe support.
60. GUALEGUAYCHU
Second phase (Sub-project 410): Construction of water intake defense 100m long, protecting
the south of the city from erosion by concrete blocks on a geotextile bed. In the north basin,
construction of rainfall drains of variable cross section. Total drain length would be 5,525 km
and the area to be drained would be 390Ha. Discharge would be over Gaitan creek. In the
south basin, construction of rainfall drains of variable cross section. Total drain length would
be 5,285 km and the area to be drained would be 436,41Ha. Discharge would be over the
"Munilla" creek.
61.  IBICUY
Second phase (Sub-project 411): Construction of embankments to complete the defense belt
around Ibicuy town, which was initiated under the previous loan. The defense would be 3,320
m long and 8 m wide at the proposed height of 7m. Construction material would be sand
extracted from the river ("refulado"), covered with fertile soil and vegetation. Rain water would
be evacuated beyond the defense by culverts (gravity drains) and pumping stations.



- 70 -                            ANNEX 3
62.   pARANA
First phase (Sub-project 404): Coastal protection against erosion and river bed movement
vertical structural supports or spikes, "gaviones" and sand filling. Placement of supports
upstream and downstream of Parana city for 600 m. Upstream, the river bank would be
restored and its slope surface protected for some 200 m.
Second phase (Sub-project 412): Canalization and stabilization of Antoiiico creek, between the
"25 de junio" Street and the connection of this creek and the Parana river. The canal would be
open and of structural concrete, and would connect to the closed canal that already covers a
section.
63. VICTORIA
Second phas (Sub-project 413): Construction of the water intake tower and defenses, and
installation of electromechanical equipment and piping. Rehabilitation of the Victoria Port with
demolition and removal of concrete pavements, removal of the loose material in the bank, sand
fillings and compacting collapsed zones, geotextile placement over the sand where the pavement
was removed, flexible protection of the bank with structural concrete elements, gullies (side
channels) construction, dug at the back of the existing "tablestacado" (stake-wall) to place
geotextile and compacted sand, and installation of security lighting.
64. CONCORDIA
First phase (Sub-project 405): Construction and upgrading of the rainfall drainage system and
construction of a small reservoir, on Concordia creek, to regulate the peak flows.
Construction of south defense including embankment, rainfall drainage system, culverts and
pumping stations. Construction of first phase of north defense.
Second phase (sub-project 414): Adjustment of the cross canal section and realignment of
Manzores creek. Construction of second phase of north defense to complete the 4.5 km of
embankment, rainfall drainage and culverts.
65. VILLA PARANACITO
Second phas (Sub-project 415): Elevation of several streets in the urban area by constructing
embankments with vegetation for slope protection, 7m wide at the top and with a total volume
of some 51,600m3. The flood recurrence period selected was 10 years to lower the risk of
defense failure. Works would also include culverts and pumping stations.



- 71 -                            ANNEX 3
PROVINCE OF FORMOSA
66.          The Province of Formosa exemplifies the widespread, persistent flooding
problems of those Parana Basin provinces which are affected by overflows of the Paraguay River
combined with extensive rainfall.  In particular, the main provincial cities--Clorinda and
Formosa--are located on the floodplain of the Paraguay and its tributaries. This explains their
vulnerability to the high flooding caused by the periodic peaking of these rivers. The rivers
normally peak at separate intervals; however, the phenomenon is sometimes simultaneous.
67.         Other contributing factors include the area's heavy rains and flat topography. The
former reflect the Province's humid tropical climate (with only some four dry months yearly)
and annual precipitation of some 1,370 mm. Moreover, in the basin in which Clorinda is
located, the terrain precludes natural drainage of the surface flows arising from the substantial
rainfall, especially when combined with river flooding discharges.  Another aggravating
condition is the poor permeability of area soils (especially in farming sections). This and the
very limited capacity of urban surface drainage produce high water accumulations. Urban
planning deficiencies in Clorinda and Formosa have worsened these factors still more.
68.         Thus, the Province has suffered major flooding problems as a result of these
topographic conditions, as well as the locations of its two major cities. These problems are
being mitigated somewhat by operations of the Flood Rehabilitation Project. These have
included defenses, surface drainage, pumping stations and coastal erosion controls. There also
is some activity in rehabilitation of communications, surface paving, and water supply and
sewerage systems.
69.         The Province's recent assessment of its flooding problems concluded that the
highest priorities need to be given to improved protection of the cities of Clorinda and Formosa.
This judgment coincided with the recommendations of the Halcrow study, on which the proposed
project is largely based. This study classified these two cities as being among the Parana Basin
areas most vulnerable to flood damage. Much of this was attributed to the fact that they had
grown without adequate urban development controls, notwithstanding their central location in
the Paraguay River floodplain.
70.         Following this determination of priorities, the Province commissioned master
plans for better protection of its two major cities. Based on these, the activities planned under
the proposed project focus on reinforcement of existing defenses and construction of rainfall
drainage systems, canals and pumping stations in areas with the greatest flood risks. The aim
of the investments is to raise the protection levels, e.g., upgrading those raised under emergency
conditions and restoring some which had been altered during past floods. This was determined
to be more economic than building additional defenses.
71.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project)
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:



- 72 -                            ANNEX 3
72. CLORINDA
First pbase (Sub-project 500): Reinforcement of existing defenses for permanent protection,
adoption of lower angles on the external side of the embankments and improvement of material
compacting. These works (15.4 km of defenses) protects from the Pilcomayo river floods.
Also, construction of Porteino Norte river defense of some 6.3 km and rainfall drainage
systems.
73. FORMOSA
First phase (Sub-project 501): Reinforcement of existing defenses to adequate them for
permanent protection. Raise their existing level, adopt lower angles on external side, restore
interior side, protect their surface, and add a layer of cohesive soil at the top to allow access of
the operation and maintenance equipment. These works were initiated under the previous loan.
The southern defense extends for some 12km and the northern defense for 6.5 km. In addition,
construction of rainfall drainage systems, culverts and pumping stations would be carried out.
Second phase (Sub-project 502): North coastal defense embankment, including pumping stations
and river bank protection. Also, construction of control infrastructure works to regulate peak
flows, including small reservoirs, culverts and pumping stations.
PROVINCE OF MISIONES
74.         The Province of Misiones is surrounded by the Parana, Uruguay and Iguazu
Rivers. Their overflows, especially from the Parana and its tributaries, characteristically cause
persistent flooding throughout the Province.  This is complicated by the pattern of heavy
provincial rainfall. These two factors reinforce each other, on average, twice per year.
75.         Substantial flooding resulting from these factors has long affected the Province's
urban centers. The floods generally surpass the capacity of the local facilities for evacuating
these flows, and often even engulf embankments built for defenses as well as water systems.
Simultaneously, Uruguay and Iguazu river overflows have affected rural settlements in internal
basins, where their spillover merges with local streams.
76.         The river flooding phenomenon has mainly caused problems in securing adequate
supply of potable water and the quality of its service in urban areas (especially Posadas, Wanda,
Puerto Esperanza and Obera). These have been complicated by the Province's lack of sufficient
drainage and sewerage facilities, notably in the cities of San Javier and Puerto Iguazu.
Flooding has also affected roads and bridges in rural areas, at times causing some of these zones
to be isolated.
77.         Some mitigation of these problems will result from works constructed under the
Flood Rehabilitation Project. This project has included investments in pumping stations and
water intakes and supply systems, particularly for the city of Posadas.  For the long-term



- 73 -                            ANNEX 3
protection of key assets, the Province has designed a US$10-million program which is included
in the proposed project.
78.         Almost two-thirds of the value of its sub-projects is directed to improved drainage
systems for the centers of Puerto Igauzu, San Javier and the Yarara and Bonito basins. Most
of the remainder will be allocated to better safeguards of water intakes and other water/sewerage
systems in Posadas and three other cities. The balance would be used for the preparation of
additional bridge works in rural areas, including the raising and strengthening of accesses to
these bridges, with some replacements as well as water underpasses.
79.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project)
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:
80.   POSADAS
Eirst phas (Sub-project 600): Construction of a new water intake system, to replace the old one
which was flooded and could not be rehabilitated, including acquisition and installation of
electromechanical equipment.
81. PUERTO ESPERANZA
First phase (Sub-project 601): Construction of a new water intake system, to replace the old one
which was flooded and could not be rehabilitated, including installation of pipes, and acquisition
and installation of electromechanical equipment.
82. WANDA
First thase (Sub-project 602): Construction of a new water intake system, including installation
of pipes, acquisition and installation of electromechanical equipment, and treatment plant
installation. Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system to improve its capacity on the
Tubicua creek (cleaning and realignment), construction of new drains and improvement of
existing ones.
83.   OBERA
Second phase (Sub-project 608): Construction of a new water intake system, in Ram6n creek,
including installation of pipes, acquisition and installation of electromechanical equipment, and
construction of a small water reservoir to regulate water flows during dry seasons.



- 74 -                           ANNEX 3
84. PUERTO IGUAZU
First phase (Sub-project 603): Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system to improve
its capacity on the Tacuara creek (cleaning and realignment), construction of new drains and
improvement of the existing ones.
Second pha  (Sub-project 609): Complementary drainage works.
85.   SAN JAVIER
First phase (Sub-project 604): Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system to improve
its capacity (cleaning and realignment), construction of new drains and improvement of the
existing ones. Also, construction of embankments, and slope surface protection with fertile soil
and vegetation.
86.   YARARA CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 605): Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system to improve
its capacity on the Yarara creek (cleaning and realignment), construction of new drains and
improvement of existing ones. Also, construction of embankments, and slope surface protection
with fertile soil and vegetation.
87.  BONITO CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 606): Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system to improve
its capacity on the Bonito creek (cleaning and realignment), construction of new drains and
improvement of existing ones. Also, construction of embankments, and slope surface protection
with fertile soil and vegetation.
88.   BRIDGES
First phase (Sub-project 607): Raising and upgrading of existing bridges. In several cases, the
construction of new bridges would be required because the existing ones are obsolete and cannot
be repaired.



-75-                              ANNEX 3
PROVINCE OF SANTA FE
89.         The Province of Santa Fe confronts recurrent periods of flooding that adversely
affect its important, largely agricultural productive areas. This partly derives from the flat
topography of the extensive plain which comprises most of the region's land surface. In some
areas there is no natural exit for excessive surface water flows, which have exceeded the
capacity of natural reservoirs. The region generally in fact lacks adequate natural drainage
capacity, especially in the Linea Parana basin. These have caused sizeable land areas to be
submerged for extended periods, with considerable subsequent soil erosion.
90.         Changes in climatic conditions have likewise been influential, as well as costly.
Historically, Santa Fe has had successions of drought and heavy rainfall. Provincial records
over the last 30 years though have shown a nearly unrelieved pattern of virtual hyper-humidity.
Consequently, Santa Fe has had seasonally heavy rains, which have varied from 700-1,000 mm
to 1,970 mm annually over the past 20 years. This pattern has resulted in the steady growth of
groundwater levels, in one area rising 17 meters from 1970 to 1981. To worsen matters, some
provincial zones have encountered considerable droughts at the same time as their neighbors had
to overcome flooding.
91.   These factors have been exacerbated by the ways in which the Province has grown. The
capital city, Santa Fe, typifies the pattern of its urban development. Its location on the floodbed
of the Parana River has made it particularly vulnerable to the heavy overflows which result from
this river's peaking. In this connection also, Santa Fe's location makes it vulnerable to water
flows coming from neighboring regions.
92.         Santa Fe's flood problems are concentrated in ten parts of the Province. These
regions' difficulties derive basically from the above-mentioned excessive water flows, heavy
rainfall, and the flatness of land surfaces. There also are substantial concentrations of population
in these flood-prone zones. Other contributing factors have consisted of the poor condition of
underpasses in principal drainage networks, and retrograde erosion causing the backward
movement (from downstream to upstream) of a water fall along the Saladillo stream.
93.         Furthermore, the Parana River's overflow westward has severely damaged the
heavily trafficked Route No. 1 and its bridges, which also has caused substantial erosion in
adjacent streams and lagoons. In addition, substantial problems with erosion controls have
damaged the bridge over Leyes stream, which requires its relocation.
94.         To help ease these difficulties, the provisional works being executed under the
Flood Rehabilitation Project include improvements in river defenses, surface drainage, pumping
stations and coastal erosion control. For the longer term future, the Province has developed
master plans for its most vulnerable areas. These include the Colastine, Cululu, las Conchas,
Monje Carrizales, Pavon, Saladillo and San Antonio sections, and areas adjacent to the
Carcarana river, the Linea Parana basin, and Setubal lagoon system.



- 76 -                            ANNEX 3
95.         There is a roughly similar strategy depicted in the plans for these zones. It forms
the basis of most of Santa Fe's sub-projects in the proposed new project. One of its major
elements emphasizes the reconditioning of existing canal structures plus the adjustment or
replacement of urban and rural drainage and sewerage systems, erosion controls, pumping
systems and water underpasses. Sub-projects costing US$66.5 million are included in the new
project for these kinds of activities in 10 of the above-mentioned priority areas of the Province.
The second principal element of Santa Fe's program involves the elevation of bridges in diverse
rural areas and improvements in their accesses, mainly in the Setubal basin system. These
would constitute the remaining US$21.5 million of works in the Province.
96.         A summary description of the sub-projects proposed for this province is given
below. They include works to be done in the first-phase of the program (funded by this project)
and in the second-phase for a possible future operation. They are:
97.   LAS CONCHAS CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 700): Construction of new canals and upgrading of existing ones, for
a total of some 230 km; embankment construction (some 70,000 m3); construction and
rehabilitation of culverts and bridges along several routes, roads and railroads. In addition,
placement of metallic fences to designate limits of protection works and facilitate its
preservation.
Second phase (Sub-project 708): Construction of embankments and regulatory spillways in
"Verde" and "La Tigra" lagoons.
98. SAN ANTONIO CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 701): Upgrading of existing canals, improving their conduction
capacity, for a total of some 140 km; construction of culverts and bridges in several principal
and secondary routes, railroads, private and community roads; also, construction of gullies (side
channels), raising of roads, and placement of metallic fences. In addition, the urban drainage
system would be improved. Bridge on provincial route 92, over San Antonio creek. Upgrading
of canals: Principal 2, and Secondary Curupaity and Capivara. Improvement of gravel roads
and gully (side channel) construction.
99.   CULULU CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 702): Construction of new canals and embankments, and upgrading of
existing canals and embankments, and the corresponding upgrading of culverts and bridges over
the drainage network. Canals total some 380 km and embankments some 186,000 m3. Also,
placement of metallic fences. Complementary works for Retiro creek, Principal 1 canal and
Prusianas creek. (Upgrading of secondary canals and urban protection for small communities).



-77-                             ANNEX 3
100. COLASTINE CREEK
Second phase (Sub-project 709): Construction of embankments to protect urban centers,
construction of new canals and upgrading of existing canals, with the corresponding upgrading
of culverts and bridges over the drainage network, on roads, routes and railroads. Canal
construction and upgrading total some 400 km.  Also, placement of metallic fences.
Complementary works for Colastine creek and Coralitos principal canal. Upgrading of
secondary canals and urban protection for small communities.
101. MONJE-CARRIZALES CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 703):  Construction of embankments to protect urban centers,
construction of new canals and upgrading of existing canals, with the corresponding upgrading
of culverts and bridges over the drainage network, on roads, routes and railroads. Canal
construction and upgrading total some 600 km and the new canals are for Las Bandurrias and
Las Estacas creeks, which are tributaries of the Caniada Carrizales creek. Also, placement of
metallic fences.
Second phase (Sub-project 710): Canal upgrading of Cainada Carrizales creek and urban
protection for small communities.
102. CARCARANA RIVER
First phase (Sub-project 704):  Construction of embankments to protect urban centers,
construction of new canals and upgrading of existing canals, with the corresponding upgrading
of culverts and bridges over the drainage network, on roads, routes and railroads. Canal
construction and upgrading total some 160 km. Also, placement of metallic fences. Upgrading
of culverts and bridges (second stage), and protection of small communities (embankments and
pumping stations).
103. SALADILLO CREEK
First phase (Sub-project 705): Waterfall stabilization with a canal, spillways and control
structures to avoid further erosion (Saladillo creek). In addition, upgrading of existing canals
(around 4.5 km), with the corresponding upgrading of culverts and bridges over the drainage
network, on roads, routes and railroads (Casilda and Fuentes communities). Also, placement
of metallic fences.
104.  PAVON CREEK
Second phase (Sub-project 711): Upgrading of the existing rainfall drainage system with the
capacity conduction improvement on 46 km of a natural streams (Pavon creek), and with the new
construction and improvement of existing structures on 84 km of canals. Also, upgrading or



- 78 -                            ANNEX 3
complete replacement of culverts, bridges and associated embankments to the main drainage
system.
105. LINEA PARANA
Second phase (Sub-project 712): Reconditioning of existing canals (222 km), embankments
(772,368 m3), drains, pumping stations, access roads, and embankment surface protection.
Construction and upgrading of culverts and bridges.
106. SETUBAL SYSTEM
First phase (Sub-project 706): Construction of a bridge on the Provincial Route 1 (PR1), over
the Leyes creek (length 400 m), with associated access roads. Construction of a bridge on the
PR1, over the Potrero creek (length 400 m), with the associated access roads.
Second phas (Sub-project 713): Defense embankments to protect Provincial Route 1 (55 km
and 967,948 m3), associated culverts and upgrading of access roads.
107. BRIDGES
First phase (Sub-project 707): raising and upgrading of existing bridges of high priority and
strong internal economic rate of return. In several cases, the construction of new bridges would
be required because the existing ones cannot be repaired.
Second phase (Sub-project 714): Raising and upgrading of additional existing bridges, or
complete replacement depending on the case, of the remaining bridges.
BUENOS AIRES CAPITAL CITY
108. BUENOS AIRES CITY (Sub-project 800): Construction of infrastructure works to
decrease/alleviate the rainfall drainage flow to Maldonado creek, which is one of the main
drainage outlets for Buenos Aires. These works include drainage (closed sub-terrain canals or
tunnels) and reservoirs. Works include four reservoirs of 1 ha each for a total storage capacity
of 314,733 m3, and two tunnels of 4 m diameter located 25 m below the surface.



-79-                             ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Shelters and Housing
Introduction
1.    This component of the project derives from the overall strategy of not making substantial
flood protection investments in areas which risk assessments have shown to be uneconomic or
of low priority otherwise. The "living with floods" philosophy which has been applied in these
areas generally excludes reconstruction of homes and other buildings there. However, the
project design recognizes the implications of this philosophy for the residents of these flood-
prone areas and the need to mitigate some of their problems. Accordingly, the project tries to
minimize the damage involved. For this purpose, the project includes funding for: (a) a
program of voluntary self-construction of safer houses by the affected communities, and (b) the
construction of shelters for the protection of families evacuated during flood conditions.
Therefore, while these populations would not be protected by the structural defense works, they
would benefit from these altemative long-term protective measures.
2.    The housing component would also aim at providing better protection for residents of
very isolated areas who are distant from river defense structures, or who live outside the scope
of economically justified river defenses. Similarly, the shelter component will serve the needs
of those families who live outside the scope of these facilities. It would also put in place
emergency protection for families reluctant to abandon permanently their risky home sites or
who move into the area in the future despite the warnings and land use regulations discouraging
development there.
Housing
3.    This Housing component would extend and expand on the ongoing activity which has the
same objective under the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 3521-AR). It would apply the same
criteria and methods of implementation which were successfully carried out under the previous
project, as well as the strong role in it played by community groups. The component also would
follow the same procurement provisions and safeguards which likewise contributed to the
effective implementation of this component under the Rehabilitation Project.
4.    The basic concept remains that housing be provided for low-income families located in
areas highly vulnerable to floods. Their new houses would be constructed in higher areas close
to their present sites or in their present sites with elevated foundations, if possible, to minimize
dislocation. An additional criterion was the absence of any environmental problems at the new
site.



- 80 -                            ANNEX 4
5.    The housing units would be 43 m2, with two bedrooms, a multi-use room, a shaded area,
and water and drainage installation for the kitchen and bathroom. This unit represents an
enlargement of the previous project prototype (32m2), with more living space as well as better
climatic protection. The new water and drainage installations for the kitchen and bathroom are
based on the experiences with the families who occupied the units built thus far.
6.   In order to accelerate the process of land acquisition, a new feature of the project would
be the establishment of a data bank, which contains information on property ownership. This
would help overcome the delays encountered in the first project due to uncertainties of the legal
availability of the sites for the new homes.
7.    The seven riverside provinces would participate in this project component, applying the
previous experience. The houses will be constructed with the materials obtained through the
same system of vouchers to cover their cost. The new cost of about US$6,200 per unit
compares to the approximately US$4000 for the previous prototype, with the difference
representing the cost of the new services and the enlarged area. Even at the new higher cost,
it still represents a much less expensive construction cost than normally applies in Argentina
today. By comparison, units of the same size as those to be financed under the project, but
which are provided under the Government's FONAVI construction program cost some
US$20,000. The latter figure, however, includes access to water and electricity, as well as the
basic land cost, which total some US$3,000.
8.    The beneficiaries would provide the labor to build their own houses or undertake a task
with the equivalent labor where they lack expertise in housing construction. Also under the
system, housing experts posted in the central and provincial units would work with provincial
technicians to provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries in the field. In addition, the new
project would contain an additional feature that builds upon the Flood Rehabilitation Project.
Under the new project, the housing beneficiaries would be assisted by the technical and social
services provided by community organizations. These would consist of help in the selection of
the beneficiaries, their organization for the community "self-help" character of the construction,
design and orientation of the component, the functioning of the voucher system, and the
provision of practical information for the needs of the beneficiaries. Previous experience has
shown the necessity of this assistance for the success of the housing component.
9.    This would be complemented by assistance which the local officials would provide from
other sources.  Under this, municipal technicians assist groups of beneficiaries with the
construction of their homes, which provides some on-the-job training and improved skills. The
housing beneficiaries would also be assisted by technical trainers to help prepare them for future
productive employment. This additional training would be provided under community auspices
with the help of the Municipal projects (Loans 2920-AR and 3860-AR). This training would be
complemented with the practical employment opportunities of home building under this project.
This joint venture results from coordination arrangements of local officials with other assistance
projects.



- 81-                             ANNEX 4
10.   The Project Operational Manual (POM), which defines the procedures for project
execution, covers the eligibility criteria for housing benefits, the house design, monitoring and
supervision requirements, and other measures to assure transparency and accountability (see
Annex 7). The agreed eligibility criteria are designed to ensure that beneficiaries are among the
poorest families and that their current settlements are vulnerable to floods. In addition, the
housing improvements and new construction would be restricted to those families which have
voluntarily applied for such assistance in order to meet their individual needs. These and the
other criteria which govern this component also follow the experience of the previous project;
they are virtually unchanged. One amendment calls for the beneficiaries to have lived in their
homes for five (rather than three) years prior to their application for inclusion in the project, as
well as to commit themselves to remain in the houses being constructed or improved for an
additional five years compared to three years presently. The longer period is intended to help
restrict this component to those with a greater commitment, i.e., those who would maintain long-
term residence in the houses, rather than to sell them for personal profit. In addition, it would
restrict the benefits to a more selected group, and would amortize the benefits more fully.
11.   Municipal social workers would visit applicants and would verify that they meet program
criteria. Technical and social workers would be guided by technical and social assistants of
SUCCE in complying with the program. All beneficiaries would be required to sign a document
certifying, among other things, that all relevant family members have lived on the site
considered highly vulnerable to floods and their current house is not waterproof; the unit they
currently have is their only residence and they have no other property; have no savings or other
resources to move to a safer place and improve their sanitary conditions; and plan to live in the
area for at least five years. If the land on which they plan to build belongs to someone else, the
beneficiary must provide signed approval from the owner allowing them to use the land for at
least five years. Also, the beneficiaries have to agree to use the voucher as stipulated and
comply with all of its conditions and requirements; agree to provide the labor needed to
assemble their units; and agree to follow the instructions of the field technicians to ensure that
the units are constructed in accordance with safety requirements. Beneficiaries would also
affirm their understanding that if they make any false declaration or misuse the material
received, they will be subject to judicial proceedings and will have to make full restitution if
found guilty of such abuses. Beneficiaries who receive assistance through the voucher program
would not be eligible for additional complementary and/or concessionaire assistance from the
government for the units received.
12.   Receipt of the vouchers would be annotated in a Registry of Beneficiaries. These
registries would show the number of vouchers registered by SUPCEs, given to beneficiaries and
recovered in the process (received from the provider and paid to them). This closed circuit
would allow proper control by SUCCE and the auditors. They would also show the amount of
the vouchers and the stage of construction to which they apply. They would be numbered and
printed so as to avoid fraud, and would bear the identification of the participants (names,
addresses, identification, date of receipt of the certificate and the amount of each portion).
These vouchers would be non-transferable and would be drawn down in tranches from any
hardware supplier participating in the program. They would specify the value, tranche limits,



-82 -                            ANNEX 4
type of material that can be purchased, and the sequence of such purchases to ensure a minimum
waiting period between purchase and installation of the material. These registers would be kept
available for the review of SUCCE and external auditors. In addition, the SUPCEs would
identify and register the hardware suppliers who express interest in participating in the project.
13.   Beneficiaries would have final responsibility for constructing and assembling their units,
with technical assistance guidance from the field technicians to whom they would be assigned.
The field technicians would be responsible for supervising the quality and value of the materials
delivered by the suppliers to the beneficiaries. The hardware suppliers can redeem the vouchers
under procedures and conditions specified as part of the agreement to include them in the
program. The suppliers, inter alia, would have to show proof of delivery of the materials to
the beneficiary (i.e., sales slips). These and other regulations would be included in an Annex
to the POM.
14.   The materials used for the houses and their design would vary in each province
depending on the availability of materials and the customs of the inhabitants, following the
experience of the previous loan. The use of the traditional style of brick construction has been
very successful. It had the special advantage of enabling beneficiaries to build the new houses
through their own personal efforts. Conversely, the previous experience has created doubts
about the use of wood panels and pre-fabricated prototypes, which reduced the beneficiaries
participation and sense of ownership. Therefore, the program would be implemented on the
basis of traditional style brick construction, except for special cases and conditions in which the
Bank would agree to a different approach.
15.   Approximately US$31 million would be available for this component. This would enable
5,000 families to benefit from the proposed new construction and improvements, approximately
the same number which received such assistance under the ongoing Rehabilitation Project. As
in the latter, the beneficiaries would provide the labor for the construction. Even though the
labor would not be sufficient to compensate for the investment cost, it would be considered an
effective way to create ownership sense of the beneficiary for the new house.  Other
contributions to this component would include the provision of the necessary land and the
connections for the water and electricity, which would be made by federal, provincial or
municipal sources. The following table shows the distribution of houses by province:



-83 -                            ANNEX 4
PROVINCE    QUANTITY to   COST (US$)
be financed     (excluding labor)
under this loan
Corrientes             1,275      7,905,000.00
Chaco                    828     5,133,600.00
Misiones                 445     2,758,0.00W
Formosa                  828      5,133,600.00
Santa Fe     -_1,083             6,714,60.00
Buenos Aires             286      1,773,20.0
Entre Rios               255      1,581,000.00
TOTAL                  5,000    31,000,000.00
16.  The above numbers reflect only a portion of the established requirement for housing
improvements in the affected areas (which will not receive greater flood protection defenses
under the project). However, as indicated elsewhere in this report, this project is envisaged to
be the first phase of a proposed two-stage operation. Other new and improved housing would
be financed under a possible follow-up operation, benefiting additional families.
Shelters
17.  The "flood preparedness and civil defense" component of this project is directed at needs
in vulnerable areas which are not considered to justify further investments in structural
defenses. Apart from the aforementioned housing improvements, as a new feature of the
govemment's program, this project would add the construction of shelters for the emergency
refuge of area residents during flood conditions. The functions of the shelters include protection
against weather conditions, provision of basic sanitary services, storage and protection of
belongings, provision of emotional support and intimacy, and support for the future
reconstruction period. On the other hand, the shelters would also serve as temporary housing
for families dislocated by the floods from very risky areas but who subsequently would return
to their vulnerable homes rather than move to more permanent housing for the longer term.
18.  In the 1982/83 floods some 177,000 people were evacuated, and in the 1992 floods about
133,000. An average of 25% of the evacuated population appear to have gone into public
shelters or temporary houses. The remaining population was sheltered in the houses of relatives
and friends, or rented spaces. The shelter requirements per province, for the 1982/83 and 1992
floods, were as follows:



-84 -                             ANNEX 4
Province               Evacuated Population   Evacuated Population
19821E8                 1992
Santa Fe                            23,054                 37,794
Entre Rios                           17,974                16,436
Corrientes                           11,228                17,840
Chaco                                68,527                 6,883
Formosa                             50,026                 46,316
Misiones                              6,226                 6,584
Buenos Aires              ---                               1,253
TOTAL                               177,035               133,106
19.   Shelters would be located in zones without flooding risks, and close to work places,
schools, food supply centers and means of communication. Another criterion for the location
of the shelters would be their proximity to provincial and municipal institutions involved in flood
preparedness and civil defense.  Almost 60%  of the shelters would be concentrated in
Corrientes, Formosa and Santa Fe Provinces.
20.   The shelters would be used as "multi purpose facilities" to permit their serving as
education or sport centers, when they are not needed for civil defense purposes. They would
be constructed as annexes to existing facilities such as schools or community centers. This
flexibility of serving other uses for the community while there is no emergency would help
assure the maintenance and the rapid civil defense action by the entity in charge of the main
installation (school or community center) annex to which the shelter would be installed. In
addition, the multi-purpose function of the shelter would avoid any tendency towards the
permanent stay of the people living there during the emergency.
21.   Each shelter would provide, sleeping space for about 10 to 12 families of six members.
In addition, the shelter would have a section of community bathrooms, kitchen, space for
circulation and storage, and would be equipped with water disinfectants, blankets and water
pumping among other emergency equipment, for an average total space per family of some
25m2.
22.   The total space per family of 25m2 including all uses mentioned above for 10-12 families
per shelter, gives a total of 250-300 square meters per shelter. This space would give temporary
comfort, but would discourage people from remaining in the shelter after the emergency.
Restrictions would be imposed on how long they could remain, depending on the restoration of
normal living conditions. With a cost per shelter of some US$80,000 and considering 155
shelters, the total investment would be some US$12.4 million. Their construction would be with
durable materials of low maintenance requirements.
23.   A prototype has been designed for the shelters by SUCCE in close consultation with the
provinces, which takes into account the need for multi purpose use of these buildings. This



- 85 -                           ANNEX 4
prototype would be adopted by all the provinces and constructed by contractors to be hired in
each province through national competitive bidding.
24.   The number of shelters required was determined by SUCCE and the provinces based on
past experience, as well as estimates of current and future needs, considering the zones that are
being protected with structural defense works, the population benefitted by the housing program
and land use regulations. For the proposed project the population evacuated that would go into
shelters is estimated at 8,000 people. Shelter is provided for a smaller population than in the
past because of the improvements to be implemented through this loan.
25.   The number of shelters and investment required per province would be:
PROVINCE             NUMBER OF SHELTERS    AMOUNT IN US$
Corrientes                      33                   2,640,000.00
Chaco                           20                   1,600,000.00
Misiones                        17                   1,360,000.00
Formosa                         25                   2,000,000.00
Santa Fe                        30                   2,400,000.00
Buenos Aires                     18                   1,440,000.00
Entre Rios                       12                    960,000.00
TOTAL                           155                 12,400,000.00
26.  In order to assure the effective implementation of this component and the subsequent
multi-purpose use of the shelters and their maintenance, the provinces would designate the entity
to be charged with meeting these responsibilities. Where the shelters are attached to existing
facilities, the entities responsible for maintaining those facilities would also assume the
maintenance of the shelters. In addition, the local entities or organizations, such as schools,
hospitals, churches, municipal entities, would contribute to the maintenance of the shelters.
Responsibilities for maintenance are spelled out in the Project Operational Manual.






- 87 -                            ANNEX 5
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Environmental Assessment
Introduction
1.    The project will support the flood protection strategies and policies of participating
provinces through the implementation of well coordinated programs. These programs include
both structural and non-structural measures, enhancing provincial capacity to deal with periodic
flooding, protecting important economic and social infrastructure, and strengthening the legal
and institutional framework to sustain them. When completed, the project is expected to have
provided technical assistance and financing to seven provinces which have long suffered
economic and human losses from periodic flooding of the Parana, Paraguay and Uruguay rivers.
Over 120 specific investment needs were identified along the flood plains of the three rivers.
These were screened according to environmental criteria agreed with the Bank and a "living
with floods" strategy, resulting in the selection of some 50 priorities for the first phase of the
program, supported by the project.
Environmental Assessment Strategy
2.    Given the size of the areas studied (flood plains of the Parana, Uruguay and Paraguay
rivers in Argentina) and the complexity of their ecological and human interactions, the
environmental assessment process included three major components:  (i) a regional
environmental assessment to analyze existing conditions of interacting natural and manmade
systems in the floodplains; (ii) project-specific environmental assessments for each of the priority
projects, as part of the technical and economic studies; and (iii) an integrated analysis of all
priority projects and their cumulative impacts at the regional level. This strategy permitted the
identification of regional programs that would enhance the environmental benefits of the project
as well as project-specific mitigation measures to be included as part of project design and
construction. All reports have been placed in the Public Information Center in Washington and
made available to the public in Argentina.
3.    The studies concluded that the negative impacts identified would for the most part be
highly localized and short-lived. The cumulative impact in the flood plains will be of much
lesser magnitude than existing environmental pressures caused by other human activities and
infrastructure. The principal environmental screening criteria used for civil works was the least
possible interference with natural flooding processes. The project therefore will not interfere
with the quantity or quality of waterways. While the project would finance some housing
construction in low income high risk areas, there is no resettlement contemplated as housing
would be built largely on the families' current sites and restricted to their voluntary intentions



- 88 -                            ANNEX 5
and self-construction plans. The main civil works were systematically screened to avoid
involuntary resettlement. Although their impacts on natural ecosystems were deemed negligible,
the project will finance programs for improved ecological monitoring and management of natural
wetlands, especially those near urban centers and threatened by manmade activities.
The Project
4.    Non-structural Measures. Most past efforts to manage the effects of floods have focused
on structural measures involving large-scale, and therefore capital-intensive, flood control
projects. By contrast, following experience in Argentina and internationally, the new approach
supported by this project combines physical controls in high priority areas with non-structural
measures based on a "living with floods" strategy. Non-structural measures included in the
project are: (i) strengthening the legal and institutional framework in each province including
the preparation of new laws, a civil defense system, land use plans for the floodplains, and
regulations restricting development in the most vulnerable areas, and units to coordinate civil
defense, flood warning, hydraulic works, and maintenance of protection works; (ii) a flood
preparedness and civil defense program targeting areas where no investment in structural
defenses is warranted, and providing emergency shelter and safer housing conditions for lower
income families there; (iii) a flood warning system which will provide a new hydro-metering
network, improved information database, and flood forecasting models.
5.    Structural Measures. The fortification of flood defenses in vulnerable geographic areas
with strong economic activity is the principal group of structural measures to be implemented
by the project. A complete list of physical improvements for flood protection was first prepared
based on a comprehensive provincial protection strategy expressed in provincial master plans.
This list was screened based on technical, economic and environmental criteria. These criteria
included: (i) protection of important economic assets; (ii) investments with rates of return
greater than 12%; (iii) non-encouragement of human settlement in or other development of flood
prone areas; and (iv) least possible interference with natural flood processes.
6.    The major civil works include: (i) construction, rehabilitation or improvement of defense
structures (e.g., embankments and culverts); (ii) improvement of urban and peri-urban drainage
canals through dredging, realignment, refuse clean-up, training works, and pumping stations;
(iii) renovation or replacement of bridges and road drainage systems; and (iv) construction or
improvement of gate valves and other river flow infrastructure, as well as water treatment plant
intakes. The projects are distributed throughout the flood plain corridors and some internal
watersheds, the latter especially in the Chaco and Santa Fe provinces. The location of priority
projects is shown in map IBRD No. 27719.
Human and Economic Losses due to Floods
7.    The four largest flood events registered during this century occurred in 1904/05,
1982/83, 1989/90, and 1991/92. The 1982/83 flood lasted the longest. Human and economic
losses due to floods have been well documented in Argentina. In 1991/92, over 120,000 people



- 89 -                             ANNEX 5
had to be evacuated and over 30,000 housing units were affected. Urban infrastructure suffered
multimillion-dollar damage. Agricultural, commercial and industrial activities were also hard
hit in the region. Most floods were exacerbated by the lack of preparedness of most provinces
to deal with such emergencies.
Regional Environmental Conditions
8.    Ecological Importance of Floods.   The peaks, cyclical behavior, and relative
unpredictability of flows, sediment transport and nutrient loads determine the functioning and
interrelations of all aquatic ecosystems of the floodplains of the Parana, Paraguay and Uruguay
rivers - streams, swamps and lagoons - and the associated terrestrial habitats, such as islands and
riverine areas. The structure and functions of the aquatic ecosystems of the flood plains and
their biological communities have selectively adapted to the flood and dry season cycle.
Practically all ecological events in the flood plain are related either positively or negatively to
the extent and regularity of floods. The transport and deposition of sediments; the succession,
development and decomposition of grasslands and the development of arboreal vegetation; the
consumption and mineralization of organic matter; the activity of herbivores and carnivores;
migration of fish and birds; fisheries; agriculture, cattle ranching and hunting; are all intimately
intertwined with flood cycles. The interactions of ecological functions and human activities with
the flood regime conform to a vast, complex macro system which is not completely understood.
Most experts agree that the ecological and environmental stability of this system depends on the
conservation of the natural interactions between floods and natural habitats. A schematic
rendering of these interactions is shown in Figure 1.
9.    The flood plains of the Parana, Paraguay, and Uruguay rivers are perhaps the richest
biodiversity areas in Argentina. Over its 60% of birds and over 50% of amphibians, reptiles
and mammals of Argentina are represented in the floodplains. Floods play an important role
in the dispersion of these species along the floodplain corridor. Some 26% of mammals, 28%
of birds, 18% of reptiles, and 43% of amphibians of the floodplains are considered to be
threatened or subject to some conservation risk. The principal threats to the conservation of the
rich biodiversity of the floodplains are: (i) the destruction of or encroachment on habitats for
expansion of development or commercial activity; (ii) illegal hunting, and deforestation of
gallery forests; (iii) interference with natural flood processes and connections between the river
and natural lagoons and other wetlands due to the construction of infrastructure and urban
expansion; and (iv) pollution of small rivers and streams from untreated sewage discharges and
untreated industrial effluents. The construction of hydroelectric projects in the upper basins of
the rivers has probably also impaired natural ecological resources and processes significantly.



-90-                               ANNEX 5
_ydflood plain habitats                                agro-industial
~i    geomorpho1ogy, ..........[..[  Iand organisms       '            development
peak flow/ flood   i_1________
urban expansion and !        urban environmental
road infrastructure               quali
_ __   I population
growith
Figure 1. Ecological and Human Interactions in the Floodplains
10.   The protection of important natural habitats of the floodplains is very weak in most
provinces. Less than 6% of the total provincial area can be considered to have some form of
protection (less than 1.6% if the Esteros del Ibera reserve with 1,000,000 hectares is excluded).
Most protected areas have surface areas of less than 10 km2, which is considered insufficient to
sustain stable population and communities. Most areas do not have appropriate management
plans, and skilled personnel are generally non-existent.
11.   Social Environment. Three types of human settlements can be found in the flood plains
of the Parana and Paraguay rivers: (i) family groups living on the islands and riverine areas
which have adapted to the flood cycle (e.g., they migrate with flooding); (ii) poor urban and
peri-urban communities in high risk areas, living in precarious housing and sanitary conditions,



- 91-                              ANNEX 5
the hardest hit group in severe floods; and (iii) urban settlements largely unprepared for the
flood conditions, which are highly dependent on flood protection infrastructure and post-flood
remediation assistance.
12.   The high economic and human losses of periodic flooding have not deterred the
continuing growth of settlements on the flood plains of the Parana and Uruguay rivers. Nor
have they materially altered the patterns of ever larger cities with services organized in ways
similar to non-flooded cities; production systems based on technologies for non-flooding areas;
and infrastructure (housing, roads, sanitation) equally inappropriately adapted to flood
conditions. Planning for urban expansion is practically non-existent. In some cases municipal
development initiatives and investments perversely provide incentives for population growth in
high-risk areas.
13.   Water supply and sanitation services are deficient in most cities of the flood plain. Table
1 shows the water supply and sewerage coverage in the seven provinces. Wastewater treatment
is non-existent, and raw sewage is discharged directly into surface waters. Despite the large
quantities of untreated sewage discharged by the major cities, the large dilution and purification
provided by the rivers has prevented major pollution problems. However, pollution is localized
and of some concern especially in smaller tributaries. The latter not only receive untreated
sewage from small and medium sized towns but also the untreated discharges of large
slaughterhouses and meatpacking industries throughout the region. Solid waste collection and
disposal is also deficient in most urban centers. Garbage left or scattered in the streets and
around protection infrastructure has led to the proliferation of vectors (mainly rats) with their
inherent health risks, which in turn lessen the stability of the protection works.
14.   The existing sanitation situation in urban centers is further exacerbated by the flood
regime. Drainage systems are stressed during flood periods, therefore the accumulation of
wastewater within the protection works commonly occurs in most urban centers. On the other
hand, technical solutions for the protection of urban infrastructure sometimes are influenced by
the lack of adequate sanitation facilities.  In conclusion, protection works and sanitation
infrastructure planning must be developed in a coordinated manner to fully achieve a sound
urban environment. The project will provide technical assistance to municipalities to support
such coordination.
Table 1. Water Supply and Sanitation Situation
Province    Opuait    ~Water        ~      i
-...... , '  . ..'''.....'   '.        - .   ....  '   '''
Santa Fe       2,776,472          89.3  2__3
Entre Rios     1,009,940          74.9       35.4
Corrientes       790,786          63.9       30.6
Buenos Aires   4,557,592          62.0       39.0
Formosa          396,428          55.0       20.3
Chaco            834,128          52.1       13.4
Misiones         782,131          35.6        7.5



- 92 -                            ANNEX 5
Legal and Institutional Framework
15.   Although not all provinces are equally affected by floods, they share the same
environmental problems of the floodplains. However, there are no common environmental
criteria to handle such problems among them, resulting in a wide variety of institutional and
legal framework for flood emergencies, natural resources management and environmental
control. In general, the institutions in charge of implementing environmental regulations are
understaffed and have no enforcement capacity.  There is no systematic environmental
assessment procedures for major flood protection or any other infrastructure projects. In
addition, there is no coordination between the institutions in charge of promoting flood
protection infrastructure and natural resources and environmental agencies.
Environmental Impact Analysis
16.   Ecosystem dynamics and communities of the floodplains are biologically adapted to flood
events and present a high degree of resilience to environmental disturbance. The construction
of flood protection works could cause imbalances in water dynamics in certain areas, which in
turn could affect the community composition. Environmental pressures, however, will be
localized in the area of influence of the civil works which are already heavily disturbed by
human activities and urban expansion. Therefore, impacts on regional biodiversity are expected
to be of negligible magnitude and importance.
17.   Conceptually, the construction of protection works could influence the residence time of
water in some segments of the river as well as induce hydrometric variations downstream of the
project sites. These changes could in turn affect the productivity, and energy transfer and
accumulation in different segments of the floodplain macrosystem. However, the relatively
small size of the protection works in relation to the much larger area of the total floodplain, their
point location and construction characteristics (mainly rehabilitation) would prevent any major
negative regional impact on the floodplain ecosystems at the macro level. Therefore, changes
in productivity as well as trophic structure of communities will be negligible.
18.   Most environmental impacts will be confined to specific project locations.  These
potential impacts were systematically identified and evaluated; corresponding mitigation and
monitoring measures were agreed to be included in project design and construction.
Analysis of Alternatives
19.   Perhaps the most important environmental protection aspect of project preparation was
the systematic analysis of alternatives for each site. Alternatives included project site selection
and design capacity (pumping stations, for instance).  All alternatives were screened for
environmental and social impacts for compliance with the project philosophy and environmental
criteria of interfering to the least possible extent with natural flood processes.



-93-                                   ANNEX 5
Regional Environmental Programs
20.   Four regional environmental programs will enhance project benefits and ensure
appropriate management of proposed and future flood protection projects. These programs are
summarized in Table 2. The programs include detailed activities for: (i) environmental
education and public awareness in communities with flood protection works; (ii) strengthening
environmental management capacity of the implementing agencies as well as environmental
agencies; (iii) improving local urban environmental management and monitoring, especially
regarding the sound disposal of solid wastes; and (iv) improving baseline knowledge of the
ecology and dynamics of the riverine and floodplain ecosystem and improving protection and
management of wetlands within the project region, especially near the urban areas.
Table 2 Regional Environmental Programs
Existing Situation       - Environmental Program            Participating Institutions
Weak environmental assessment  Strengthening   environmental Sub-Unidad   Central  de
capacity  for flood  protection  assessment procedures in key  Coordinaci6n de Emergencias -
works                         institutions                  SUCCE, Sub-Unidad Provincial
de Coordinaci6n de Emergencias-
SUPCES, provincial
environmental/natural resources
agencies
Deficient urban environmental  Technical assistance for urban  Municipalities, NGOs
infrastructure exacerbates flood  environmental management in
impacts and  limits technical  urban centers
solutions
Lack of environmental awareness  Environmental education  and  Communities, NGOs
in  communities  related  to  awareness  programs  in
floodplain ecosystems and flood  communities  benefiting  from
protection works              protection works
Wetland and floodplain ecosystem   Support  to  protection  and  Provincial  natural  resource
degradation and lack of effective  management  initiatives  for agencies, research institutions,
protection systems            wetland and other ecosystems,  municipalities, and NGOs
especially near urban centers
21.   Environmental education and awareness programs will be implemented in communities
benefiting from flood protection infrastructure financed under this project. These programs will
stress the ecological importance of floods, the need for the conservation of floodplain
ecosystems, and the environmental impact of human activities (waste disposal on dikes for
instance) on protection  infrastructure.   These programs will be implemented  with the
participation of local NGOs.



-94-                              ANNEX S
22.   Participating municipalities can request technical assistance for the design and
implementation of urban environmental management plans in their urban areas, specially in solid
waste collection and disposal, and the management of domestic sewage. The program will stress
the relationship and needed coordination between protection works and urban environmental
infrastructure.
23.   Deficiencies in the institutional and regulatory framework will also be addressed through
the implementation of a program for strengthening the environmental management of flood
protection works, which includes: preparation of environmental manuals for the design and
construction of flood protection infrastructure, environmental assessment procedures for flood
protection projects, and procedures for the environmental supervision of construction activities.
24.   Technical assistance will be provided to provincial and municipal agencies for
improvement of wetland protection systems, especially for areas near urban centers. A wide
variety of activities would be financed ranging from legal assistance for the delimitation of such
areas to the design of management plans for selected existing or proposed protected areas.
Project-Specific Environmental Measures
25.   An environmental assessment summary for each specific project site was prepared and
presented in an Annex to the Environmental Assessment report. This summary includes: (i)
project location and a general description of the project area, beneficiaries and sanitary
conditions of the urban area; (ii) a brief description of proposed civil works and the expected
flood protection benefits; (iii) an analysis of environmental processes and components likely to
be impacted by the civil works and the vulnerability of infrastructure to natural processes; (iv)
an identification of all mitigation and monitoring measures and activities that need to be
considered as part of project design, construction and operation; and (v) a description of the
expected benefits of implementation of the environmental measures.
Public Consultation
26.   Two forms of public consultation were carried out during project preparation. Two
regional seminars were held in order to discuss the regional environmental implications of the
project. Seminar participants included provincial natural resources and environmental agencies;
national, regional and local NGOs; and universities and research centers. The proposed regional
environmental programs were discussed in detail. There is a consensus that they would provide
a much needed complement to the non-structural measures to be implemented by the project.
Local public consultation took place only in those communities where major new protection
infrastructure is to be built. These consultations were carried out directly by the consultants in
charge of project design under the coordination of SUCCE. Two local meetings in Gualeguay



- 95 -                                   ANNEX 5
(Box 1) and Resistencia, with the participation of local NGOs, community representatives, and
local institutions, resulted in changes in project design and site that would ensure community
acceptance of proposed works.
Box 1 Community Consultation in Gualeguay
Gunleguy ' is an nprote ted:ci,tyin6 the provice ,of Entre Rios which kms been severely impate t,by.t  a two.
flood ev'nts"The in.tial pro dflo rotction'works a dike around the city, would have-cuta acro  a'well
etoi:park  tt o  btarana rrwhic is a  an soue of   reationfo
popu1ation,'with ancient trees and inra'r'cture rooted in local tradition. Community organizations  d
autorit,e, rej'ec"ted't,prop     ani   ' 'd were e  ilingto fo    th        f th W
Meetings:were held,'nGuaeguay in which the community. proposed a new alil  ,ent of the dle tha. would cu
acros thie river b.ran"ch into. an..island' in front of the -city,- cutting back -again to "the' city limits 'thrugh th sae
branch;  Altho    this s.chere would in-pinicipie.be against the project philosophy-of notow
deve"opm.''to. in  p       s,,th co munity and.the municipaity made a strongcase tde     hei :c
heritage.  heproposedr        nt  was. acceptd provided hat the municipality establishe a nu   rsv
the 'i,lnd (with interstg but rt' er.ve ned wetlan&), The p 'roct wil pro W i al     e      t
this protectedg area.t






-97-                              ANNEX 6
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Project Description and Costs
Project Description: The proposed project would consist of:
1.   (a) Structural Measures, consisting of construction works to protect important areas of
the flood plain against flood effects. This component would include fortification of flood
defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and greatest vulnerability to serious
repeated flood damage. These investments would not attempt to control flows of the major
rivers (Parana, Paraguay and Uruguay). Instead, they would protect the cities against floods
caused by the rivers through works that would avoid waters invading the cities without
interfering with the rivers. Works would concentrate on raising bridges, improvement of
existing and construction of new drainage channels, embankments and small flood control works.
These investments would follow the master plans developed for each flood-prone area.
2.    A complete list of physical improvements related to flood protection works was first
prepared based on a comprehensive provincial protection strategy expressed in individual
provincial master plans. These were scaled down and rationalized on the basis of technical,
environmental, and economic criteria, i.e., they had to comply with a minimum criteria for
environmental impacts and to have an internal economic rate of return of 12% or higher. As
the investment required to implement the whole list of improvements would be quite substantial,
the Government decided to implement the program in two phases. The proposed loan would
finance the higher priority group of the two. The priority criteria for selection of sub-projects
was to select from eligible candidate sub-projects (those that met the minimum environmental
and economic criteria) those which would, in each province, defend the most important
economic assets (normally the most populated cities) but limiting the amount of investment in
the province in accordance with its counterpart funding capacity. This criteria would also allow
all affected provinces to participate in the project, as is required for the "non-structural"
measures whose implementation would require the participation of all provinces in the basin.
It is proposed to structure the Loan so as to facilitate the possible incorporation of "second
priority' list of activities during project execution.  In view of the provinces' disparate
implementation capabilities and performance, two annual reviews at an early stage of
implementation would be convened to determine if the initial provincial allocations require
revision. During these reviews it would be possible to transfer funding from a slow-moving
province to better performing provinces. Annex 3 (Provincial Master Plans) gives details on all
sub-projects. Map IBRD No. 27719 gives the location of each sub-project. Annex 10
(Economic Analysis) gives details on the methodology used for the economic analysis and a
ranling list of sub-projects by order of internal economic rate of return.



- 98 -                            ANNEX 6
3.    SUCCE hired consultants that have carried out the Master Plans for each area identified
in the consultant report (Halcrow) for the whole basin. Those reports included the plans for
defense works in: Clorinda, Formosa, Internal Sub-basins in Formosa, Resistencia, Linea
Tapenaga (Chaco), Corrientes (capital), Goya, Bella Vista, Curuzu-Cuatia, Esquina, Mercedes,
Parana, Gualeguay, Gualeguaychu, Colon, Concepci6n del Uruguay, Diamante, Federaci6n,
Ibicuy, Victoria, Villa Paranacito, Concordia, Santa Elena, La Paz, Las Conchas Basin, San
Antonio Basin, Cululu Basin, Colastine Basin, Monje Carrizales Basin, Carcarania Basin,
Salladillo, Pav6n Basin, Linea Parana, Leyes Setubal, Islands of Buenos Aires, San Pedro, and
Zarate.
4.    The sub-projects included in the first priority group are listed in Attachments 1, 2, and
3, which also show their estimated base cost. Attachments 4, 5, and 6, show the list of sub-
projects in the second priority group with their estimated base costs.  Consequently, the
estimated base cost of this component (considering the first priority group of sub-projects) would
be US$277.5 million, consisting of US$263.6 million for works and US$13.9 million for goods.
5.    (b) Non-Structural Measures: Consisting of:
6.    (bl) New Institutional Framework: Technical assistance would be provided to help create
and implement an institutional framework in each province to deal with recurrent floods. It
would result in: (i) plans and regulations to rationalize land usage in flood-prone areas including
classification of areas according to their vulnerability to flood risk, therefore leading land owners
to seek private flood insurance; (ii) create a unit that would coordinate civil defense, flood
warning, consultation on hydraulic works, maintenance of flood defense facilities, and provision
of environmental safeguards related to flooding issues; and (iii) institutional development actions
that would support the coordinating units in their initial operation through technical assistance
and equipment.
7.    (b2) UJpgrading Flood Preparedness: For vulnerable areas not considered to warrant
further investment in structural defenses, the proposed assistance would provide shelters (multi-
purpose installations) and improved housing for lower income families in flood-prone zones.
The housing component would follow the same principles of the previous project providing
funding for a voluntary program of self-construction of houses by the community.
Improvements in civil defense arrangements are also envisaged.
8.    This component would fund the construction of 155 shelters (multi-purpose installations)
to receive affected population during floods in areas in which "structural" works are not
justified. Those installations would follow prototypes developed by SUCCE and would be
located adjacent to existing schools or community centers to allow them to be used by the
population in non-emergency time, as well as to facilitate their maintenance. Annex 4 provides
additional details on the shelters.



-99 -                            ANNEX 6
9.   In more remote areas in which shelters would not be justified, the project would finance
the material for an estimated 5,000 self-constructed houses, following the successful experience
with the same number of units under the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 3521-AR). The units
would follow the same prototypes which are appropriated to meet flood conditions (either in
higher land or over piles), as well as the sanitary facilities not included in the previous project.
They would be 43 square meters, with two bedrooms and a multiuse room. Approximately
US$31 million would be provided as grants to low-income families. Building materials (about
US$6,200 per house) are expected to comprise about 80% of the construction cost. The
provinces would provide land, infrastructure, and technical and social assistance to the
beneficiaries. The beneficiaries, who are among the poorest families in the affected areas,
would finance the remaining 20% through their labor input. The units would be constructed in
the same neighborhood where the beneficiary already lives to avoid the need of resettlement.
Annex 4 provides additional information on the housing component.
10.   An adequate system of civil defense would also be created in each province. Consultants
would help prepare emergency procedures to be followed during emergencies by the civil
defense teams. The estimated base cost of the upgrading flood preparedness component is:
| US$ million
Shelters                             12.4
Housing                              31.0
Consultants (civil defense)           0.7
Total                                46.1
11.  (b3) Early Flood Warning System: This component would aim to ensure the development
of a more comprehensive flood warning system linking the National Institute of Hydrological
Sciences and Technology (INCYTH) and provincial systems. It would include: (i) installation
of a new hydro-metering network consisting of waterflow gauging stations with satellite
connection to a central station at INCYTH for input in a central data bank; (ii) installation of
local computers connected to the central station to allow every province to have unrestricted
access to the data bank; (iii) improvements in the software for flood forecasting, including its
adaptation to allow some provinces to forecast local sub-basins. This mathematical model will
be installed in INCYTH's central computer and in each province's local computer; and (iv)
creation of a provincial group responsible for flood-warning activities. The base cost of this
component is estimated as US$3.8 million.
12.   The Early Flood Warning System would be procured as a turn-key package of equipment
and services including software, installation of equipment and training of local staff. Around
60 local measuring stations would be telemetered using satellite communication to send data to
a central computer (PC pentium class). The communication equipment for the remote stations
and the central receiver would be included in this package. The software would include the
development of five models (Kalman filter; Rain-River flow; Hydrologic transit; Basin



-100 -                            ANNEX 6
Hydrodynamics; Flood forecast for medium and long range) and a Reporting software. The
supplier would also provide training for the local staff on the models to be transferred.
13.  (b4) Project Implementation: Technical assistance would be provided to help implement
the project and carry out a related training program for improving the provinces' capabilities in
flood forecasting, early warning, civil defense and environmental activities. The project would
include consultant services for the design of the flood defense works, supervision of construction
and implementation of four environmental programs.
14.   The environmental programs included in the project were designed as part of the
environmental assessment made during preparation and would consist of: (i) environmental
education and public awareness in communities benefiting from flood protection works; (ii)
strengthening of environmental management capacity of the implementing agencies as well as
the environmental agencies; (iii) technical assistance to communities and municipalities to
improve urban environmental management and monitoring, especially regarding the sound
disposal of solid waste; and (iv) improvements in baseline knowledge of ecology and dynamics
of the riverine and floodplain ecosystem and improving protection and management of wetlands
within the project region, especially near urban areas (see also Annex 5).
The estimated base cost of this component is:
US$ million
Environmental Programs         3.6
Consultants                   20.7
SUCCE                          9.2
Training                       0.5
Auditing                       1.5
Total                         35.5
15.   The estimated project base cost would be US$365.4 million, which would be distributed
as follows:
Component                                     Cost in US$ million
Civil Works (structural works and shelters)         276.0
Goods                                                13.9
Housing Grants                                       31.0
Technical Assistance and training                    44.5
Total                                               365.4



- 101 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                          ANNEX 6
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                           Attachment 1
List of First Priority Sub-Projects (B.Aires, Chaco, Corrientes)
Sub-Project                    #1   #2  #3   G                       Description                        US$
or              (List of Bidding Processes)              (1000)
w
Islas del Delta                                   Total of Sub-Project 100                                12350
100   1   0 W   Alteo Comunicacion Sector 1                                6,796
100   2   0 W   Alteo Comunicacion Sector 2                                5,554
Zarate                                            Total of Sub-Project 101                                 1,587
101    1   0 G   Barrio Villa Bosch                                          167
101   2   0 W   Barrio Villa Florida                                         925
101   3   0 W   Barrio Villa Angus                                           495
Campana                                           Total of Sub-Project 102                                 4,454
102   1   0 G   Barrio San Cayetano                                          409
102   2   0 W   Pluviales SE y Coleta                                      4,045
San Pedro                                         Total of Sub-Project 103                                 1,685
103   1   0 W   Barrio Las Canaletas                                       1,167
103   2   0 W   Barrio Bajo Puerto                                           518
Baradero                                          Total of Sub-Project 104                                   668
104   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                           668
Escobar                                      I    Total of Sub-Project 105                                 1,389
105   1   0 W   Barrio San Miguel                                          1,227
105   2   0 W   Barrio Bedoya                                                162
Tigre                                             Total of Sub-Project 106                                 3,539
|_________________________ |106   1   0 w   Dique Lujan Villa La Nata                                      3,539
1g=HAC=GS  -~. Stra~ in t* ....               ..
Resistencia                                       Total of Sub-Project 200                                35,470
200   1   0 w   Terraplen Defensa Norte                                    2,856
200   2   0 W   Terraplen Perimetral Rio Negro                             5,212
200   3   0 W   Desagues Pluviales Zona Sur                                5,511
200   4   0 W Desagues Pluviales Zona Norte                                 5,800
200   5   0G  |Desagues Pluviales Equipamiento                             3,451
200   6   0 W   Control Gral San Martin                                    3,922
200   7   0 G   Gral San Martin Equipamiento                               4,972
200   8   0 IW   Control Soberania Nacional                                2,804
200   9   0 W   Terraplen Puerto Barranqueras                                942
IC : QIT h $   .:  .   ...   .                    Tt0t~1   ~nnV a~t~    in   1h~   PrQvir~12 . .   . ...4........
Bella Vista                                       Total of Sub-Project 300                                 1,562
300   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                          1,562
Corrientes Capital                                Total of Sub-Project 301                                13,264
301    1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 1                                     1,812
301   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2                                     2,392
301   3   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 3                                     2,208
301   4   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 4                                     2,318
301   5   0 W   Defensa Sur                                                1,134
301   6   0 W   Defensa Norte                                              1,530
301   7   0 G   Defensa Norte Equipment                                    1,870
Curuzu Cuatia                                     Total of Sub-Proiect 302                                 2,398
302   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 1                                     1 ,418
302   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2                                       980
Esquina                                           Total of Sub-Project 303                                 1,595
303   1   0 W   Drenaje Urbano                                             1,595
Mercedes                                          Total of Sub-Project 304                                 4,777
304   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 1                                     1,165
304   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2                                     1,158
304   3   0 W   Control Inundaciones                                       2,454
Goya                                              Total of Sub-Project 305                                17,819
305   1   0 W   Drenaje Pluvial # 1                                        1,000
305   2   0 W   Drenaje Pluvial # 2                                          982
305   3   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 1                              1,146
305   4   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 2                              1,820
305   5   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 3                              2,156
305   6   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 4                              4,822
305   7   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 5                              5,893



- 102 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                       ANNEX 6
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                        Attachment 2
List of First Priority Sub-Projects (Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones)
Sub-Project                   #1   #2  #3   G                       Contract                          US$
or                                                      (1000)
_= ~~~~~~~..........      .  ...     .........                                                ..........4
C. del Uruguay                              _ Total of Sub-Project 400                                  7,767
400   1   0 W   Defensas contra Inundacion                                5,331
400   2   0 W   Defensa Obras Complementarias                             1,910
400   3   0 W   Defensa Toma de Agua                                        526
Diamante                                        Total of Sub-Project 401                                2,846
401   1   0 W   Estabilizacion Barrancas                                  2,846
La Paz                         =                Total of Sub-Project 402                                2,338
402   1   0 W   Estabilizacion Barrancas                                  2,338
Gualeguay                                       Total of Sub-Project 403                               11,493
403   1   0 W   Terraplen Defensa                                         8,644
403   2   0 W   Estacion Bombeo                                           2,849
Parana                                      ___  Total of Sub-Project 404                              10,351
404   1   0 W   Defense Recuperacion Costera                             10,351
Concordia                                        Total of Sub-Project 405                              17,168
405   1   0 W   Colector Pluvial                                          4,146
405   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                        6,156
406   3   0 W   Defensa Sur                                               4,800
405   4   0 W   Costanera Norte (First Phase)                             2,068
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              _ 
Clorinda                                        Total of Sub-Project 500                                8,040
500   1   0 W   Defensa Principal                                        4,794
600   2   0 W   Porteno Norte                                              868
500   3   0 W   Drenaje Troncal                                           1,669
____________________________   500   4   0 W   Barrio Coraoal                                         709
Formosa Capital                     _        __  Total of Sub-Project 601                              11,875
I__________________________ 501   1   0 W   Defensa Sur                                          __     3,089
601   2   0 G   Defensa Norte                                             3,099
601   3   0 W   Drenaje                                                5_687
Posadas                      .                  Total of Sub-Project 600                                  315
600   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                                               315
Puerto Esperanza                                 Total of Sub-Project 601                                 760
601   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                                               750
Wanda                                            Total of Sub-Project 602  _                              750
602   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                                      __       750
Puerto Iguazu                                   Total of Sub-Project 603                                2,000
603   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                        2,000
San Javier                                    _ Total of Sub-Project 604                         _      2,000
604   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                        2,000
Ayo. Yarara                                 I   Total of Sub-Project 605                                 1,365
605   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                        1,365
Ayo. Bonito                            I=        Total of Sub-Project 606                                1,300
606   1   0 W   Desegues Pluviales                                        1,300
Alteo Puentes                  =                 Total of Sub-Project 607                                1,577
607   1   0 W   Alteo Puentes                                             1,577



- 103 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                       Annex 6
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                        Attachment 3
List of First Priority Sub-Projects (Santa Fe & Capital Federal)
Sub-Project                   #1   #2  #3   G                       Contract                          US$
or                                                      (1000)
Ayo. las Conchas                     _ _  _   Total of Sub-Project 700                                  4,152
700   1   0 W   Canal Principal 4/puente RP38                            4,152
Ayo. San Antonio                                 Total of Sub-Project 701                                6,390
701   1   0 W   Canal Princ. 2/Canada Capivara                            3,313
701   2   0 W   Canal Princ. 2/Puente RP9                                 3,077
Ayo. Cululu                                      Total of Sub-Project 702                              18,786
702   1   0 W   Ayo Retiro                                                3,462
702   2   0 W   Ayo. los Corrales                                         2,047
702   3   O W   Canal Principal 1                                         4,364
702   4   0 W   Ayo. las Prusianas                                        1,805
702   5   0 W   Ayo. las Prusianas-Rafaela                                4,838
702   6   0 W   Ayo. Retiro/Princ.1/Prusianas                             2,270
Ayo. Monje Carrizal                     _        Total of Sub-Project 703                                5,604
703   1   0 W   Ayo. las Bandurrias                                       2,446
703   2   0 W   Ayo. las Estacas                                          3,158
Rio Carcarana                           _        Total of Sub-Project 704                              12,410
704   1   0 W   Cuenca Propria                                            2,429
704   2   0 W   Ayo. C. de Gomez                                         4,678
704   3   0 W   Ayo las Tortugas                                          3,358
704   4   0 W   Cuenca propria/2a etapa                                   2,045
Ayo. Saladillo                                   Total of Sub-Project 705                                7,407
705   1   0 W   Proteccion Casilda y Fuentes                               868
705   2   0 W   Estabilizacion Cascada                                    6,539
Sist. Setubal                                    Total of Sub-Project 706                              11,679
706   1   0 W   Obras de Arte Ayo Leyes                                   7,484
706   2   0 W   Obras de Arte Ao Portero                                  4,195
Alteo Puentes                          .         Total of Sub-Project 707                              21,578
707   1   0 W   Malabrigo s/ RP40                                         4,092
7C7   2   0 W   Garabato s/ RP40                                          2,887
707   3   0 W   Saladillo s/ RP62                                        4,851
707   4   0 W   Alcantarillas y Alteo RP62                                 831
707   5   0 W   Aguiar s/ RP82-S                                          2,233
707   6   0 W   El Rey s/ RP31                                            2,688
707   7   0 W   Los Troncos s/ RP50-S                                       308
707   8   0 W   El Toba s/ RP36                                           3,099
707   9   0 W   El Rey s/ RP3                                               689
., t*l.F,'*I,F,'r~T.  . .'   .                    C7                  ' .
o800   1     W   Preliminary Analysis                                     5,000



- 104 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                      ANNEX 6
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                       Attachment 4
List of Second Priority Sub-Projects (BAiree, Chaco, Corrientesl
Sub-Project                  #1   #2  #3   G                      Deecription                       USS
or             (List of Bidding Procestsl              (10001
w
Baradero #2                  _  _      _ _      Total of Sub-Project 107                               1,346
107   1   0 W   Tableatacado, Proteccion, defenses                      1,348
Rarnallo                                       ITotal of Sub-Proect 108                                  364
_108   1   0     I Alteo Catmino Costero                                   37
108   2   0 W   Tablestecado tremo canmino                                242
1 08   3   0WV  Altto Camino Costa Pobre                                   86
Zarate Ir2                              _   _  Total of Sub-Project 109                                1,S24
109   1   0W   De ssus: Pluvidse Villa Florida                            362
109   2   0 W   Arroyo Santa Lucia                                        594
109   3   0 W   Defense Costnera Sw                                       678
Compnan #2                    _    =   _   _Total of Sub-Proect 110                                    1,47
110   1   0  N  De sgues Pluviales San Felipe                             496
110   2   0  V      sersoues Pluviales Gismundi y Alfieri                 866
110   3   0 W   Defens Costaners                                          236
110   4   0   _ Cimino Churrinque                                          80
Tigre #2                       _   _   _   _  Total of Sub-Project 111                                 7,383
ii    1   OiWei  V  Totatac do Rio CP pito n                              213
0111   21  0W VTbleatcac do Rio Caa orechay                               26o
__________________________    201   3    0 W V  T bles tcuado   Rio SC rm bnto                          170
1121   4   0 W   Tableiacd o Pcno Victori u                             1,747
i01    4  0  rW  Oee oues Cuenca Rincon de Milber                       3,630
211    6   0 W   Descauea  Conavidez-Rt Roi s                           1,816
San Fernando   _eon_                            Total of Sub-Project 202                               1,9b9
112   1   0 W   Muelle on continents                                       20
112   2   0 W   Desagues Pluvias e
_: ~~        ~       ~~~~~~~ _12   3   0  _  Tablmestc do 9 de Julio                            600
112   4   0 W   Musleus Plrana Mini   E19
I ~~~~~~~~~~112   6  :O: N    Proteccion Area 8                                                 1,371
0112   6 3 0W  I Table et t ado del Bel                                    23
CSan Pedre Ca2 t                               I2 Total of Sub-Project 113 076
113   1   0      I Cosctora Clouc Rivers                                  608
I  ________________________   113   2   0  W    DeB rrio   los   C iadores                              110
Escoburuu2 Cat_ _  Total of Sub-Project 113                                                              360
114   1   0W   CIPuerto Escobr                                            131
I 775 v ~~~~~~~114   2  0I  N Camino Acce o E22                                                  229
|Ristencia #2                              1 _Total of Sub-Project 201                                16,993
320    1   0W NReaje cucinCanal Soberan#   Nacion#l                     4,123
201   2   0      I Readecuaci6nCanol 16                                  1,062
320    3   0IW NAmplitcion lneo compensudor Sur                          1,747
I ~~~~~~~~~~201   4  O[   I Cuence Rio Soltbdo                                                  1,308
I  ,,                 ~~~~~~~~201   6   OI N   Adecunci6n ter,apl6n perimetral Rio Negro        3,600
I ~~~~~~~~~~201   6   0I   lAdecusci6n Control Soberanla Nociondl                               1,362
201   7   OI   ICompemonto terropl6nPuertoB6errancueree                 2,000
LMs Pamds Y L Leo#                              Total of Sub-Project 202                               2,332
202       1   OW   DesresP                                              2,332
Alteo Puwntee                              I _ _ Totdl of Sub-Project 203                              8,403
203   1   OI   lAltoo Diversoe Fuentes                                  9,403
oella Vista #2                                  Total of Sub-Project 306                               3,176
306   1  0        Dey o ues Pluvieles Seurd Etap                         1,044
316   2   0 W   D9engues Pluviales 3r4 Etp                               1,271
306   3   0IW   Deseues Pluvinlun 4t Etapc                              1,61
Corrientes Capitl #2 _                          Total of Sub-Project 307 1,436
307   1   0OW    eo Deses Pluviue  6                                     1,266
307   2   0I   ID.esqus Pluviales If 6                                  2,E61
307   3   Ow   Desaoues Pluviales # 7                                   1,247
307   4   OW   Des oges Pluviales # a                                    1,361
Curuzu Cuatia #r2              _ _ _            Total of Sub-Project 308                               1,104
306   1   0w   Conslizeciones                                          1,104
EsqtAns #2                     _ _ _ _Total of Sub-Project 309                                         6,986
309   1   O  N  Drenqje Urbano e2                                      3,664
309   2   0W_  Dren*i Urb no t3                                         1,713
309   3   0WN  Rehabilitucion Infr estructurs Portuaris                  619
M.rcedes #r2                   _ _ _ _Total of Sub-Proi.ct 310                                         2,72-4
310   1   O  f  Desague Pluvisles # 3                                  1,206
310   2   O  N  Derstows Pluviates If 4                                 1,618
Goya #r2                       _ _ _ _Total of Suib-Proiect 31 1                                       -7,046
311   1   O  N   Drensye Pluvial # 31,0
3 11   2   0WN  D,enaje Pluvial If 4                                   2,1 06
311   3   O W   Defense contra Inundacion # 6                           1,676
311   3  _   H  Defense contra Inundiocion #r 6                         1,466
A1teo Puent.s                  _    _   _   _  Total of Sub-Project 3127,9
312   1   O W   Altee Div rsoo Pu.ntes                                  762



- 105 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                         ANNEX 6
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                          Attachment 6
List of Second Priority Sub-Projects (Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones)
Sub-Project                   #1   #2  #3   G                        Contract                          US$
or                                                      (1000)
Santa Elena                                      Total of Sub-Project 406                                 2,978
406   1   0 W   Estabilizacion Barrancas                                   2,978
La Paz #2                                        Total of Sub-Project 407                                 1,176
407   1   0 W   Puerto Marquez                                             1,175
Federacion                               _       Total of Sub-Project 408                                 3,527
408   1   0 W   Defensas Costeras                                          3,627
Gualeguay #2                                     Total of Sub-Project 409                                 9,999
409  1 _0 W   Dsagues Pluviales Cuencas 1,2,3                              4,139
409   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales Cuencas 4                               3,697
409   3   0 W   Desagues Pluviales Cuencas 5                               2,163
Gualeguaychu                                     Total of Sub-Project 410                                 8,493
410   1   0 W   Desagues Aguas Pluviales                                   8,493
lbicuy                                           Total of Sub-Project 411                                 2,047
411    1   0 W   Defensa Urbana                                            2,047
Parana #2                                        Total of Sub-Project 412                                 6,793
412   1   0 W   Arroyo Antonico                                            5,793
Victoria                        =Total of Sub-Project 413                                                 2,410
413   1   O W   Toma de Agua                                               1,222
413   2   0 W   Rehabilitacion Puerto                                      1,188
Concordia #2                            1    _ Total of Sub-Project 414                                   4,800
414   1   0 W   Costanera Norte (Second Phase)                             3,100
22   0 W   Arroyo Manzores                                          1,700
Villa Paranacito                =   =   =        Total of Sub-Project 416                                   532
415   1   0 W   Defensa y Drenaje                                            532
..  ,. E  ...........:.:':.":,:.' :.:W.':F.:                                                 ... . ........................... I:  e   SSgSSg
Formosa Capital #2                       _       Total of Sub-Project 502                                12,000
502   1   0 W   Control Riacho Formosa                                   12,000
O'. N -E  I., ...... ......    . .  .   ... .......     ..
Obrera                                     _     Total of Sub-Project 608                                 2,200
608   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                                               2,200
Puerto Iguazu #2                         _       Total of Sub-Project 609                                 2,600
609   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                                         2,600



- 106 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                      Annex 8
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                       Attachment 6
List of Second Priority Sub-Projects (Santa Fe & Capital Federal)
Sub-Project                  #1   #2  #3   G                       Contract                         US$
or                                                     (1000)
_ : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    w  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __ @
Ayo. las Conches #2                 =           Total of Sub-Project 708                               2,103
708   1   O W   Canal Principal 4                                         738
_ 08   2   0 W   Canal Principal 4 - Obras Regulacion                     1,367
Ayo. Colastine                                  Total of Sub-Project 709                              15,329
709   1   0 W   Ayo Colastine - Galvez                                   2,368
709   2   0 W   C. los Corralitos - Canada Chiru                         4,783
709   3   0 W   C. los Corralitos - Canal Sastre                         2,155
709   4   0 W   Ayo. Colastine - San Eugenio                             2,069
709   6   0 W   C. los Corralitos - Canal Sastre #2                      3,964
Ayo. Monje Carrizal #2                          Total of Sub-Project 710                               4,726
710   1   0 W   Curso Principal - Cuenca Superior                        4,728
Ayo. Pavon                                      Total of Sub-Project 711                               7,034
711   1   0 W   Adecuacion Obra de Arte Troncal                 3_098
711   2   0 W   Preteccion Villa Constitucion                            3,938
Linea Parana                                    Total of Sub-Project 712                              13,365
712   1   0 W   Interconeccion Tramos 2 y 4                              4,521
712   2   O W   Tramo 4                                                  2,765
712   3   0 W   Tramo 3                                                  4,498
712   4   0 W   Adecuacion Canales                                       1,581
Sistema Setubal #2                          _ Total of Sub-Project 713                                 6,116
713   1   0 W   Terraplen                                                5,116
Alteo Puentes                                   Total of Sub-Project 714                              33,690
714   1   0 W   Ayo Los Amores s/RP 100 S                                2,597
714   2   0 W   Ayo Dientudo s/RP38                                      2,925
714   3   0 w   Alcantarillas, alteos RP38                               3,692
714   4   0 W   Ayo Yacare s/RP38                                        1,333
714   5   0 W   Ayo Espin s/ RP38                                        1,386
714   6   0 W   Rio Calchaqui s/RP 37                                    4,012
714   7   0 W   Laguna los perros s/RP37                                 1,973
714   8   0 W   Rio Salado sl RP38                                      2,288
714   9   0 W   Rio Salado- Alcantarillas y alteos                       3,815
714  10   0 W   Ayo Las Garzas s/RP 32                                   1,014
714  11   0 W   Ayo El Ray s/RP295/S                                     1,438
714  12   0 W   Cda Mocovi s/RP 295/S                                    2,630
714  13   0 W   Ayo El Rey s/RP295/S - Seccion B                         2,865
714  14   0 W   Cda Los Amores s/RP 295/S                                1,722
* }***I)t~   2det'i. _. T..t.l C. .....i .  -  . .
Capital Federal #2                  _           Total of Sub-Project 801
801   1   0 W   Drenaje Arroyo Maldonado                              135,000



- 107 -                           ANNEX 7
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Project Operational Manual (POM)
1.    To facilitate project implementation a Project Operational Manual (POM) was prepared
during project preparation. Governmental approval of the POM would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2.    The POM would be based on the POM of the previous project with the improvements
resulting from incorporating the lessons learned from its implementation (see para. 2.60-2.61
of the main text). Among other aspects the POM includes: (i) List of sub-projects eligible for
financing; (ii) procurement procedures; (iii) housing grant procedures; (iv) disbursement
procedures; (v) SUCCE structure and responsibilities; (vi) structure and responsibility of each
SUPCE; (vii) project monitoring and auditing.
3.    List of sub-projects: The POM includes a list of all sub-projects evaluated during
appraisal and divided into two groups: (i) the first priority group, funded by this proposed loan;
and (ii) the second priority group, to be considered for a future operation or to be selected
during the mid-term reviews to replace sub-project in provinces that do not perform well in
project implementation. These lists will also include the description and characterization of the
sub-projects to have them well identified to facilitate the project implementation.
4.    Procurement procedures: The POM includes detailed instructions to the implementation
agencies (SUPCEs) to apply adequately the procurement procedures based on the Bank
Guidelines for procurement of goods and works as well as for selection of consultants. The
POM includes also the agreed procedures for NCB and limited NCB. The POM also includes
the arrangements for SUCCE supervision of procurement actions and review of bidding
documents. The agreed standard bidding documents for all procurement of goods and works are
included as annexes to the POM.
5.    Housing Grant Procedures:  The POM  describes in detail the agreed criteria and
procedures for eligibility for the housing grant, as well as procedures to be followed by the
SUPCEs to distribute and control the vouchers and to help the beneficiaries to construct their
houses. It is an up-dated version of the housing manual used in the previous project.
6.    Disbursement procedures: The POM details the procedures to be followed by the
SUPCEs to disburse from the special accounts. They are based on the Bank disbursement
procedures and based on the experience gained during the implementation of the previous
project. The POM also includes the arrangements for SUCCE control and supervision of
disbursement activities by the SUPCEs.



-108 -                            ANNEX 7
7.    SUCCE structure and responsibilities:  The POM  defines SUCCE as a group of
consultants funded by the loan proceeds, reporting to the UEC of SSAP. SUCCE will be headed
by an executive chief and will be composed of professionals in each sector of project
implementation having as minimum: (i) a project supervisor, reporting directly to SSAP and
to the Bank; (ii) an accounting expert; (iii) a disbursement expert; (iv) a procurement expert; (v)
an environmental expert; (vi) a flood defense expert; (vii) a civil engineering expert; (viii) a
hydrology expert; (ix) a housing expert; (x) an expert for shelters and civil defense actions; (xi)
a drainage expert; (xii) a counsel; (xiii) an advisor for sub-project evaluations; and (xiv) support
for administrative, computational, accounting, technical and disbursement activities.  All
professionals in SUCCE will be hired having TORs and selection process submitted to the Bank.
The POM defines as SUCCE's responsibility to oversee, supervise and control the actions of all
SUPCEs, particularly in respect to sub-project designs, procurement actions, implementation,
supervision, disbursement, accounting and auditing.
8.    Structure and responsibility of each SUPCE: Each participating province will assign
project implementation responsibility to a local SUPCE. The SUPCE will consist of a chief
executive reporting to a provincial minister or directly to the governor (in some provinces), and
will have experts in a similar structure to that of SUCCE. The POM establishes the
arrangements for the adequate control and relationship between SUCCE and the SUPCEs.
9.    Project monitoring and auditing: The POM establishes the accounting requirements to
be followed by each SUPCE and by SUCCE. The monitoring system especially the quarterly
reports to be submitted to the Bank, would follow the same standard and content as those used
in the previous project. External independent auditors will be hired by SUCCE to audit annually
all project accounts, disbursement, procurement actions and SOEs and the use of the special
accounts. The TORs for the auditing services will be included in an annex to the POM.
10.   Guidance to Contractors on Environmental Aspects:  The POM  includes an annex
prepared by the environmental consultants giving guidance to contractors on procedures to be
followed during execution of works to minimize environmental effects.



- 109 -                           ANNEX 8
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Supervision Plan
Approx.        Special Activity               Skill             Staff
Dates          in the Supervision Mission     Requirements     Input
(Month/year)                                                   (SW)
April 97       - Project Launch               Engineer           5
Hydrologist
Environmentalist
July 97        - Review Procurement Timetable  Engineer          5
- Review Progress Implementation Hydrologist
l_____________ Early Flood Warning System     Environmentalist
November 97    - Review Progress in Awarding   Engineer          4
Contracts                     Environmentalist
March 98       - First Mid Term Review        Engineer           5
- Review Implementation Progress Housing Specialist
and Agree with Government     Environmentalist
Reallocation of Sub-Projects
October 98     - Review Progress of           Engineer           4
Implementation                Environmentalist
March 99       - Second Mid Term Review       Engineer           5
- Review Implementation Progress Housing Specialist
and Agree with Government     Environmentalist
Reallocation of Sub-Projects
October 99     - Review Progress of           Engineer           4
Implementation                Environmentalist
March 2000     - Review Progress of           Engineer           4
Implementation                Environmentalist
October 2000    - Review Progress of          Engineer           4
Implementation                Environmentalist
March 2001     - Review Progress of           Engineer           4
l______________ Implementation                Environmentalist
November 2001  - Instruct SUCCE on Preparation  Engineer         3
of ICR for the Project






-111-                             ANNEX 9
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Implementation Plan
1.   Implementation Arrangements:   The project would retain essentially the same
implementation arrangements as in the previous Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR). The
SUCCE would remain within the Under Secretariat for Assistance to the Provinces (SSAP), and
be the national executing agency for the proposed project.  SUCCE would retain its
responsibility for overall project management, including orientation and technical assistance to
the provinces (directly and through the Project Operational Manual) in the preparation, approval,
control, and monitoring project implementation, as well as for all financial and reporting
transactions with the Bank. SUCCE would also retain its responsibility for all aspects
concerning sub-project evaluation, approval, and procurement, as well as reporting and obtaining
Bank approval of acquisitions and disbursements. SUCCE would also continue to provide
proper coordination and policy consistency between the proposed operation and other sector-
specific projects proposed by the provinces.
2.    Procurement Plan:  To expedite procurement, during appraisal the procurement was
divided into 93 bid packages for works and six bid packages for goods, as detailed in the
procurement plan described in Attachments 1, 2, and 3.
3.    Timetable of Implementation: Implementation of the "structural measures' would follow
the timetable of the sub-projects shown in Attachments 4, and 5. The "non-structural" measures
would be implemented as follows:
(a) Civil defense emergency procedures - would be completed before 3/31/98
(b) Shelters - would be all constructed before 12/31/99
(c) Housing - would be all constructed before 12/31/2001
(d) Early flood warning - would be operational before 12/31/99
4.    Schedule of Disbursements: Attachment 6 shows the schedule of disbursements of the
proceeds of the Bank loan.
5.    Monitoring:
5.1   Key Physical Indicators: see Annex 12.
5.2   Key Performance Indicators: see Annex 12.



- 112 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                                     ANNEX 9
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                      Attachment 1
Procurement Planning (B.Aires. Chaco, Corrientes)
Sub-Project      #1   #2  #3   G              Contract             US$          Number of Months from Project Ba inina (A.J. 97)
or                                 (10001   Design   Bid.    Call     Bid      Contract Contract
Does.   for
W                                          Berins   Ready   Bids     Open    Signed   Ends
_________________________  m  m                                                              ______    _________i__-r._ .....  _
Islas del Delta   100   1   0 W   Alteo Comunicacion Sector 1        6,796       1        7        8       10       12      21
100   2  0 W   Alteo Comunicacion Sector 2        5,554       16       22      23       25       27       39
Zerate            101   1   0 G   Barrio Villa Bosch                  167        1        6        7        9       11      23
101   2   0 W   Barrio Villa Florida                925        1        8        9      11       13       25
101   3   0 W   Barrio Villa Angus                  495       15       20       21      23       25       31
Campana           102   1   0 G   Barrio San Cayetano                 409       15       20       21       23      25       31
102   2   0 W   Pluviales SE y Coleta             4,045        1       10       11      13       15       33
San Pedro         103   1   0 W   Barrio Las Canaletas               1,167      16       22       23       25       27      45
103   2   0 W   Barrio Bajo Puerto                  518       20       24      25       27       29       47
Baradero          104   1  0 W   Desagues Pluviales                   668        2        6        7       9        11      19
Escobar           105   1   0 W   Barrio San Miguel                  1,227      13       18       19      21       23       35
105   2   0 W   Barrio Bedoya                       162        8       10      11       13       15       21
Tigre             106   1   0 W   Digue Lujan Villa La Nata          3,539      18       24       25       27       29      47
r~~~~W it .t     iw                                   ___
Resistencia       200   1   0 W   Terraplen Def ensa Norte          2,856       26       32       33      35       37       46
200   2   0 W   Terraplen Perimetrel Rio Negro    5,212        1        7        8      10       12       24
200   3   0 W   Desagues Pluviales Zona Sur       5.511       20       26       27      29       31       43
200   4  0 W   Desagues Pluviales Zona Norte      5,800        7       13       14      16       18       30
200   5  0 IG   Desagues Pluviales Equipamiento   3,451        5       11      12       14       16       26
200   6   0 W -Control Gral San Martin            3,922       13       19       20      22       24       36
200   7   0 (G  Gral San Martin Equipamiento      4,972       15       21      22       24       26       36
_  200   8  0 W   Control Soberania Nacional         2,804        1        4        5        7       9       17
200   9   0 W   Terraplen Puerto Barranqueras       942       13       16       17      19       21       29
______________ _        (                      ;                                                 __  _  _  _
Belle Vista       300   1   0 W   Desegues Pluviales                 1,562       1        5        6        8      10       21
Corrientes Capital  301   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 1           1,812       1        7        8       10       12      24
301   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2            2,392        6       12       13      15       17       33
301   3   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 3            2,208       14       20      21       23       25       39
301   4   0 W   Desagues Piuviales # 4            2,318       22       28      29       31       33       49
301   5   0 W   Defensa Sur                       1,134        1        5        6       8       10       20
301   6   0 W   Defensa Norte                     1,530        1        5        6       8       10       21
301   7   0 (G  Defensa Norte Equipment           1,870       12       16       17      19       21       33
Curuzu Cuetia     302   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 1             1,418       1        5        6        8      10       21
302   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2              980       12       16       17      19       21       31
Esquina           303   1   0 W   Drenaje Urbano                     1,595       1        5        6        8      10       21
Mercedes          304   1   O W   Desagues Pluviales # 1             1,165       4        8        9       11       13      23
304   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales # 2            1,158       14       18       19      21       23       33
304   3   0 W   Control Inundaciones              2,454        1        5        6       8       10       27
Goya              305   1  0 W   Drenaje Pluvial # 1                 1,000       1        5        6        8      10       18
305   2  0 W   Drenaje Pluvial # 2                  982       18       22      23       25       27       35
305   3  0  W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 1     1,146        1        5        6       8       10       18
305   4  0 W   Defensa contra lnundacion # 2      1,820        6       10       11      13       15       27
305   5  0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 3      2,156       12       16       17      19       21       35
305   6  0 W   Defensa contre lnundacion # 4      4,822       18       24      25       27       29       41
305   7   0 W   Defensa contra Inundacion # 5     5,893       22      28       29       31       33       47



- 113 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                                      ANNEX 9
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                       Attachment 2
Procurement Planning (Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones)
Sub-Project      #1   #2  #3   G              Contract              ust          Number of Months from Proect Be ining (Apr 97)
or                                 (1000)  Design   Bid.      Call     Bid     Contract Contract
Docs.   for
W                                          Begins   Ready   Bids      Open    Signed   Ends
#W"W          .1*-_.~1S-.' K1  . ...... . ::~*_____                                            _
C. del Uruguay    400   1   0 W   Defensas contra Inundacion         5,331        2        8        9       11       13      22
___________ Y 400   2   0 W   Defensa Obras Complementarlas  1,910        1        7       8       10       12       24
400   3   0 W   Defensa Toma de Agua                 528        3       4        5        7       13       25
Diamante          401   1   0 W   Estabilizacion Barrancas           2,848        6       10       11       13       15      2S
La Paz            402   1   0 W   Estabilizaclon Barrancas           2,338        1        5        6        8       10      22
Gualeguay         403   1   0 W   Terrapien Defensa                  8,644        8       14       15       17       19      3 7
403   2   0 W   Estacion Bombeo               2_849            1_3      1 S     17_      19       21       3;3
Parana            404   1   0 W   Defensa Recuperacion Costera      10,351        2        8        9       11       13      37
Concordia         405   1   0 W   Colector Pluvial                   4,145                     _        _4  5  7      9      2__
405   2   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                 6,155        1        5        6       8       10       218
405   3   0 W   Defensa Sur                        4,800       1 6     20       21       23       25       34
_____________ - 405   4   0 W   Costanera Norte  1                   2,068       1 6     22       23       25       27       311
}-_--_ __ff
Clorinda          500   1   0 W   Defense Principal                  4,794       10       16       17      19       21       49
| 500   2| 0 W   Porteno Norte                  r     888        S       1_2_     13      15       17 2_ _
1-______________ 500   3   0 W   Drenaie Troncal                     1BB9   _            1_ 1     1 _2  14          18       28
==        = __________ 500   4   0 W   Barrio Coronal  __709                      1       4        5        7        9       I_
Formosa Capital    501   1   0 W   Defensa Sur                       3,089        2        8        9       11      13       3 '
501   2   0 G   Defensa Norte                      3,099        1       7        8       10       12       3EL
501   3   0 W   Dranaje                            5,687        1       7        8       10       12       4t_
Posadas           600   1   0 W  |Toma de Agua                         315        1        3        4        6       8       14
Puerto Esperanza    601   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                       750       33       36      37       39       41       4E
Wanda             602   1   0 W   Toma de Agua                         750       33       36      37       39       41       48
Puerto lguazu     603   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                 2,000        1        4        5        7       9       19
San Javier        604   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                 2,000        9       12       1 3      15      17       27
Ayo. Yarara       605   1   0 W   Desaaues Pluviales                 1,365       19       22       23      25       27       34
Ayo. Bonito       606   1   0 W   Desagues Pluviales                 1,300       26       29       30      32       34       41
Alteo Puentes     607   1   0 W   Alteo Puentes                      1,577        3        6        7        9       11      47



- 114 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                                    Annex 9
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                     Attachment 3
Procurement Planning (Santa Fe)
Sub-Project      #1   #2  #3   G             Contract              US$         Number of Months from Project Beginina (r 971
or                                (1000i  Design   Bid.     Call    Bid       Contract Contract
Docs.   for
_AA  _i.   ~W                                       Be:gin   Readv    Bids    Open    Signed   Ends
Avo les Conchas   700   1  0 W   Canal Principal 4/puente RP38      4.152        1       2        3        5        7      31
Ayo San Antonio   701   1  0 W   Canal Princ. 2/Canada Cepivara     3,313        1       2        3        5        7      31
701   2   0 W   Canal Princ. 2Puente RP9          3077        1        2        3        5       7       31
Ayo. Cululu       702   1  0 W   Avo Retiro                         3,462        1       7        8       10       12      36
702   2   0 W   Ayo. los Corrales                 2,047       1        7        8       10      12       38
702   3   0 W   Canal Principal 1                 4,364       1        7        8       10      12       36
702   4   0 W   Ayo. las Prusianas                1805        1        7        8       10      12       38
702   5   0 W   Ayo. las Prusianes-Refasla        4,838       3        9       10       12      14       38
702   8   0 W   Ayo. Retiro/Princil/Prusianas     2,270       3        9       10       12      14       38
AVo. Monje Carrizal 703   1   0 W   Ayo. las Bandurrias             2.446       1 2     18       1 7      19      21       45
703   2   0 W   Ayo. las Estacas                  3,158      14       18       19      21       23       47
Rio Carcarana    704   1   0 W   Cuenca Propria                     2,429       4       10       11       13      15       39
704   2   0 W   Ayo. C. de Gomez                  4,578       1        7        8       10      12       36
704   3   0 W   Ayo las Tortugas                  3,358       4       10       11       13      15       39
704   4   0 W   Cuenca propria/2a etapa           2,045       4       10       11       13      15       39
Ayo. Saladillo    705   1   0 W   Proteccion Casilda y Fuentes        868        1       5        8        8      10       34
705   2   0 W   Estabilizacion Cascada            6,539       1        2        3        5       7       31
Sist. Setubal     706   1   0 W   Obras de Arte Ayo Leyes           7,484        2       5        8        8      10       35
708   2   0 W   Obras de Arte Ao Portero          4,195       2        5        8        8      10       35
Alteo Puentes     707   1   0 W   Malabrigo s/ RP40                 4,092      25       28       29       31      33       45
707   2   0 W   Garabato sl RP40                  2.887       1        4        5        7       9       21
707   3   0 W   Saladillo s/ RP62                 4.851      23       26       27      29       31       49
707   4   0 W   Alcantarillas y Alteo RP62         831       13       16       17      19       21       39
707   5   0 W   Aguiar s/ RP82-S                  2,233       3        8        7        9      11       21
707   6   0 W   El Rey s/ RP31                    2,888      27       30       31      33       35       47
707   7   0 W   Los Troncos s/ RP50-S               308        1       4        5        7       9       17
707   8   0 W   El Toba s/ RP36                   3,099      12       15       18      18       20       32
707   9   0 W   El Ray s/ RP3                      589         1       4        5        7       9       17
77,  *..:  =..   . :,:.:
800   1   0 W   Preliminary Analysis              5.000        1       7        8       10      12       24



ArT  dNK h_ _ 
A1IW      MtX 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B_dC
r-T.6.AkIk -.1. 0        1
406  1  OW   0.4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~197ON19                                                                                                                                  20
@                    I 1@ ~~~~~~~31 41- 61 6 1 7_ Lal   10 11l 1l 11211 114 115f 116 117 118 119 1Z  121 I22   415"    h        3   1123   43  3e                 I7  140 1341 142 4:  44 647e4  5 1416A 515  LS              LB_fi M_ 1f7_
I06  2  O W       AI   Sf . C..1
40 3    OW  1 4                                                                                   *..I..*.-    *.I
1-  -          - -W 
C2     0 - 0    1 -O_   -s-                   _            f    t
2s      00 3O_ _  B o-  . ft'"'c'   .-              
TxO-e  -. _-F   1 11t       IIIIIIIIII         
<-2
LS~~~~~  so.~. Z 
~~~7le 6Dws   lig1_n



ARGEW14A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ME~ B
FOOD mo1110  MDAACT 
rmw.. f h~.0b.1.4p1
A,V.      000  1I- .W   Dd        k,
AO.i      O 0   1    W        Ph,,S.
F-C~-d    Sol 00I -              B.9   O-- I-MII                                                                                                                                                                     1      11
E-           701   1  0      T-w,F,      ,.- .



-117 -                         ANNEX 9
Attachment 6
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year     Semester (Semt.)          Cumulative (Cum.)          %
Semester   Bank JEXIM Provinces Total Bank JEXIM Provinces Total  Semt. Cum.
FY 1998
01/98       4.0    2.4      2.0  8.4   4.0    2.4      2.0   8.4     2    2
02/98       6.0    3.6      3.0 12.6  10.0    6.0      5.0  21.0     3    5
FY 1999
01/99      16.0    9.6      8.0 33.6  26.0   15.6    13.0  54.6      8   13
02/99      24.0   14.4    12.0 50.4  50.0   30.0    25.0  105.0   12   25
FY 2000                _
01/00      30.0   18.0    15.0 63.0  80.0   48.0    40.0  168.0   15   40
02/00      40.0   24.0    20.0 84.0 120.0   72.0    60.0 252.0   20   60
FY 2001
01/01      40.0   24.0    20.0 84.0 160.0   96.0    80.0 336.0   20   80
02/01      24.0   14.4    12.0 50.4 184.0  110.4    92.0 386.4   12   92
FY 2002    =                    =    =                      =     =     =
01/02      10.0    6.0      5.0 21.0 194.0  116.4    97.0 407.4      5   97
02/02       6.0    3.6      3.0 12.6 200.0  120.0   100.0 420.0      3  100






-119-                              ANNEX 10
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Economic Analysis
Economic Analysis of Sub-projects ("Structural Measures")
1.    Each structural measure sub-project included in the proposed project represents the least-cost
solution resulting from a specific master plan designed to defend the selected area against floods
(see Annex 3 for details on the master plans). In carrying out those master plans the consultants
examined several alternatives and recommended the least cost solution, taking into account sound
engineering grounds and environmental criteria, all in agreement with the overal plan for the region
as described in Annex 2.
2.    The economic analysis of each proposed sub-project was calculated by the consultant
responsible for the master plan in which the sub-project was recommended. It was later verified
by another independent consultant. The TORs for the consultants who carried out each master plan
included the criteria for the economic analysis of each sub-project. However, to ensure that this
criteria was used by all consultants in each master plan and to guarantee compatibility of analysis
among all different sub-projects, another consultant independently reviewed the economic analysis
of each sub-project. This independent consultant also carried out an overall economic analysis of
the 'structural" component of the project comprising all sub-projects.
3.    Attachment 1 lists the sub-projects by ranking order of IERR. The sub-project for drainage
of Arroyo Pavon in Santa Fe showed the highest IERR (79%) and the lowest (12%) corresponded
to the sub-projects of Goya (in Corrientes) and Gualeguachu (in Entre Rios). Attachment 1 also
shows the net present value (NPV) of each sub-project calculated at discount rates of 8, 10 and
12%.
4.    The IERR of each sub-project was computed as the discount rate equalizing the present
value of the stream of costs and benefits associated with the sub-project. The cost stream,
calculated in constant 1995 prices, includes the capital cost of the investment and the associated
operating and maintenance costs for the life (estimated as 50 years) of the constructed facilities.
The benefit stream includes the estimated cost of direct flood damage which the sub-project would
cause to be avoided (hereafter called avoided damage cost). These direct costs refer only to the
estimated rehabilitation expenses of existing facilities and infrastructure, such as roads, bridges,
water intakes, houses, public buildings, and lost plantations, the government would incur in the case
of a future recurrent flood. Data used were based on actual cost data from past floods. No
indirect, economic or social cost associated with floods was considered, resulting therefore in a
lower bound of the benefits associated with the project.



- 120-                              ANNEX 10
5.    The "avoided damage cost" calculation results in an estimate of the differences between
damage costs under conditions with and without the implementation of the sub-project. The
associated damage costs vary with the intensity of the flood, which results in different water levels
and corresponding different flooded areas. Therefore, those costs have to be calculated in
probabilistic terms. Consequently, for each sub-project, a flood-risk analysis was first carried out
using stochastic hydrological data developed from 90 years of hydrologic data and a hydraulic
mathematical model for river simulation. This analysis resulted in the design of a curve of
streamflow values (or water levels) versus estimated levels of probability of flood occurrence (or
number of years of recurrence). Then, based on past flood damage data and on the hydraulic
mathematical model developed for the river simulation and also with the help of geographic
information systems, GIS (both to estimate the flooded area corresponding to each water level), it
was possible to estimate damage costs caused by floods at different water levels. The result of this
second analysis was a curve of damage costs versus water levels. The combination of these two
first analyses resulted in a third, final curve of damage costs versus probability of occurrence (or
number of year of recurrence). Finally, there was defined the level of defense desired (for
example, 70 years of recurrence) to be used as project design criteria. The expected damage cost
was then calculated for all floods with recurrence time lower (or probability of occurrence higher)
than the desired defense level as the area (mathematical integral) under the third developed curve
(see Attachment 2). This damage cost would be avoided by the implementation of the proposed
sub-project since its design criteria was to protect the area for all floods with recurrence time lower
(or probability higher) than the level of defense provided by the sub-project. It would therefore
be an estimate of the direct benefit of the sub-project.
Project Economic Analysis
6.    The overall project economic analysis used the same criteria of the economic analyses of
the sub-projects. Therefore, the overall IERR was also computed as the discount rate equalizing
the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated with all sub-projects included in the
project. The cost stream, in constant 1995 prices, includes the capital cost of the investment and
the associated operating and maintenance costs for the life-time (estimated as 50 years) of the
constructed facilities. The benefit stream includes the estimated direct flood-caused damage cost
avoided by all sub-projects. This calculation produced a 20.4 % IERR for the base case. Sensitivity
analyses were also carried out in the economic analysis to evaluate the impact on the IERR of: (i)
an increase in investment costs of 17.4% (contingencies used); (ii) an increase in benefits
considering indirect benefits limited to 20% of the direct ones; and (iii) a delay of five years in
beginning project implementation (continuing the country to support to flood risk evaluated as the
annual avoided cost by the project). The results of this analysis were:



- 121 -                            ANNEX 10
Scenario                              IERR
Whole Project
Base Case                      20.4%
Costs increased by 17.4%       17.4%
Benefits increased by 20%      24.6%
Costs increased by 17.4% and    20.9%
Benefits increased by 20%
Project delayed five years      7.5%
"Structural Measures" only
Base Case                      22.2%
Costs increased by 17.4%       19.0%
Benefits increased by 20%      30.6%
Costs increased by 17.4% and    22.5%
Benefits increased by 20%
7.    Additional sensitivity analysis was carried out to estimate the deviation of the IERR due to
risk of data used in the evaluation. A mathematical model using the Montecarlo probabilistic
approach was used. It takes into consideration a statistical analysis of the data used for costs and
benefits evaluation. As a first step, a statistical distribution curve is fit with a mean value equal
to the estimated cost of the sub-project and with a variance coefficient of 7%. The second step was
to fit a statistical distribution curve for the estimated benefits having as mean value the avoided cost
estimated at the deterministic analysis and with also a variance coefficient of 7%. Based on those
distribution curves, a mathematical model using the Montecarlo simulation method calculated a
distribution curve for the NPV and the IERR. As this analysis aimed to assess the sensitivity to
data risk, it was only carried out for the "structural" measures. The result of this analysis indicated
an average IERR of 22.2% (equal to the deterministic value calculated before) and a range of
variation between a maximum of 32.0% and a minimum of 15.5%.
8.    To evaluate the project sensitivity in the event of postponement of the initiation of project
implementation, the consultant calculated the estimated flood-risk cost. The NPV of such risk cost
would be US$510 million, US$478 million or US$449 million, for discount rates of 8%, 10%, and
12% respectively. The IERR calculated for the project postponed five years would be reduced to
7.5%, much lower than the IERR for the base case showing the benefits of not postponing the
project.



-122-                             ANNEX 10
Housing and Shelter Components
9.    The economic evaluation of the housing component calculated direct benefits derived from:
(a) the absence of damage from loss of the beneficiaries' homes, the related expenses of evacuating
and maintaining these families during flood conditions; (b) the lack of necessity for their
resettlement and other post-flood 'emergency relief' help; and (c) the comparable lack of any need
for rehabilitating the flood damaged homes. It excluded such other benefits as the loss of days in
productive employment by affected families. Comparing only the above direct benefits with the
costs of the housing component resulted in an IERR of 14.7%.
10.   Calculating the economic return of the shelter component was more complicated, given the
uncertainty of the length of time of usage for flood emergencies, the multiplicity of shelters uses
for other purposes (during non-flood periods), etc. Primarily comparing the cost of alternative
shelter facilities with the investment cost led to an IERR of 16.03%.



- 123 -
ARGENTINA                                                                                                       ANNEX 10
FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                        Attachment 1
Ranking of Sub-Projects by IRR and NPV
Province                                  Sub-Project                        IRR               Net Present Value (NPVj
Number                              Name                  1%)              (in US$O at discount rate of
.__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  8%  10%        12%
Santa Fe                    711          Arroyo Pavon                         79.15   83,412,579   05,043,333    52,365,e43
Santa Fe                    712          Linea Parana                         08.50   118,907,683    92,255,935    73,869.440
Santa Fe                    704          Rio Carcarana                        40.82   68,289,193    52,058,713    40.s89,877
Corrientes                301/307        Corrientes Calital                   41.17    78,898,106    80,351,43    48,888,341
Miaone                    803/809        Puerto Iguazu                        41.11    18,672,193    14,104,599    10,957,554
Misiones                    804          San Javier                           39.95     7.794.474     5.874,721     4,552.152
Misiones                    600          Tome da Agua Posadas                 39.32       692,096      526,414       411,203
Santa Fe                    709          Cuenca Colatine                      34.95   70,882.997    52.268.090    39,538,7116
Santa Fe                  703/710        Arroyo Monje Carrizales              34.14    56.521.022    51,994.754    31.993.474
Santa Fe                    705          Arroyo Saladillo                     33.83   52,843,933    37.996,839    28,014,118
Entre Rion                  411          lbicuy                               30.46     9.161.976     t,788,632     5,140,34.5
Formosa                     500          Clorinda                             29.38    22,825,971    18.519,013    12,310.624
Santa Fe                  7001708        Arroyo Las Conchas                   27.82    16.835,085    12.072,213     8.822,105
Misiones                    602          Wanda                                27.59     4.236,998     3.0es,904     2,264.133
Entre Rioc                403/409        Gualsucy                             27.44   40.956.982    29.595.318    21.781.122
Santa Fe                    701          Arroyo San Antonio                   25.31    14,962.170    10.551.001     7.550.38s
Santa Fe                    702          Arroyo Cululu                        25.23   44.668 205    31,527.819    22s566,927
Capital Federal           800/801        Arroyo Maldonado                     25.04  310,876,395  219.174,02   156,651,344
Misiones                    607          Akteo Puentea                        23.57     2,233.760     1,.e5,733     1,113,390
Formosa                   501/502        Formosa Capital                      23.53   25,578.728    17,857,728    12,583,5313
Santa Fe                  707/714        Alteo Puentee                        22.24   97,475,889    66,742,364    45,938,35:
Misiones                    601          Puerto Esparanza                     21.81     2,932,041     2.026,923     1,403,e2it
Entre Rio.                405/414        Concordia                            20.75   25,593,321    18.277.468    12,502,10c'
Buenos Aires              100/115        Islas del Delta                      19.18    17,788,578    11,895,382     7.5556,44
Entre Rio.                  (1           Colon                                18.78   23.205,442    14,027,839      8,395,085
Checo                       202          Alteo Puentes                        18.63    10,297,872     6.822,316     4,407,952
Santa Fe                  708/713        Sistema Setubal                      18.45   48,900,562    28,948,853    17,421,978
Misiones                    608          Obrara                               18.16     1,789,703     1.169,104      739,315
Corrientes                300/308        Belle Vista                          17.14     5,174,241     3,227,783     1.913,690
Chaco                       201          Lines Tapenaga                       16.87    17,656.279    11,055,113     6.530,129
Chaco                       200          Resistencie                          15.85   30,345,478    18.251,2e2      7.555,644
Entre Rion                  408          Federacion                           15.83     2,872,028     1,747,596      966,678
Entre Rio                   401          Diarnnte                             15.78     2,358,795     1,431,784      787,974
Entre Fioc                402/407        La Paz                               15.63     7,089,533     4,250,940     2,295,997
Buenos Aires          101/102/109/110    Zarate y Campana                     15.62     5,536,124     3,336,984     1.809,562
Entre Ric                   400          Concepcion del Uruguay               15.52    28,111,410    15,456.918     7.704,514
Entre Rios                404/412        Pwrana                               15.36    11.524,480     6,880,333     3.621,083
Entre Rios                  415          Villa Paranacito                     15.11     3,635,055     2,136,295     1,094,867
Entre Rio.                  408          Santa Elena                          15.09     1,215,643      747,959       398.760
Corrientas                304/310        Mercedes                             14.08     4,835,251     2.629.714     1,119,840
Corrientes                303/309        Esquina                              13.44    4,444,886      2,277,e14      795,202
Corrientes                  312          Alteo Puentes                        12.97    4,824,127      2,360.986      650.335
Corrientes                302/308        Curuzu Cuatia                        12.49     1,748,131      794.053       131.192
Formosa                    (f.(          Cuencas Internee                     12.4e   37,424,004    16.926,980      2.691,767
Corrientes                305/311        Goya                                 12.36    13,654,416     5,838,550      721,374
Entre Rios                  410          Gualeguaychu                         11.75     3,977.781     1.482,989       175.016)
EntreRioc                   413          Victoria                             11.19      239.030        77.478        (46.571)
1') Canceled by environmental Reasons
(I') Needs Additional Studies



124
ANNEX 10
Atachment 2
AVOIDED DAMAGE COST
1) Flood Risk Analvsis
Water level (h)
or
Steam flow (q)
Probability of occrence (V8%)
or
Inverse of dime of recurrence (lit)
2) Direct Cost of Flood Area
Damage Cost (S)
Water Level (h)
3) Avoided Damafe Cost
Damage Cost (S)                                            Avoided Damage
Cost
Damage                              Probability of occurrence (8%)
level                                         or
Inverse of time of recurnce (l/t)



-125 -                             ANNEX 11
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Community Participation
Project Preparation
1.    Project preparation involved consultations with local communities and all affected
municipalities. The consultants who prepared the Master Plans were responsible for gathering data
and obtaining feedback from the communities involved. They contacted the municipalities in which
the sub-projects will be developed. The SUPCEs also made contact with all municipalities in the
affected areas. Public hearings were held in the areas where works are envisioned. They were
very productive, resulting in modifications of the original engineering solution in some locations
due to suggestions from local communities (e.g., in Gualeguay, Resistencia and Goya).
2.    In regional terms, two seminars (with participation of several governmental, central and
provincial officials and NGOs) were held during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions to discuss
the project and its environmental assessment (EA) report. These seminars were open to the public,
and several NGOs were invited to participate. An annex to the EA report describes the seminars
and the discussions that took place, including list of participants.
Project hnplementation
3.    Project implementation will also seek strong community participation, especially in: (i) the
installation of the emergency family shelters; (ii) the housing component based on self-construction
by community groups; (iii) the maintenance and operation of some components of the early flood
warning system; and (iv) the enforcement of the regulations on land utilization, particularly where
it includes restricted use of land.
4.    The installation of the emergency family shelters will be discussed with the communities in
order to have their location well suited for the emergency actions they would be aimed at.
Additionally, community participation will be seek to help implement the civil defense procedures
during emergencies including the use of the shelters.
5.    The housing component would follow the successful experience of the previous project. It
would be a voluntary program of self-construction of houses by community groups. Joint effort
and community participation is the key for success of this type of project component.
6.    The flood warning system would have remote stations which would require simple
maintenance actions (such as simple inspection and battery check and battery change) that could be
made by local participants.



- 126-                             ANNEX 11
7.    The enforcement of land use regulations and use of restricted areas would profit from
community participation. The project will seek to train local NGOs and communities to help
enforce those regulations by reporting illegal or irregular actions to the authorities.



- 127-                             ANNEX 12
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Project Monitoring and Auditing
Project Monitoring
1.    Three types of monitoring indicators were agreed during appraisal: (i) input indicators; (ii)
output indicators; and (iii) outcome/impact indicators. The indicators described below would be
used for project supervision:
1..1. Input indicators:
(a) Time-table of Works - showing execution performance as percentage of total
estimated cost of each contract compared to forecast time-table included in the
procurement planning (Attachments 4, 5, and 6 of Annex 9);
(b) Loan Disbursement - measured as percentage of total loan disbursements as
compared to forecast disbursements in the Schedule in Annex 9 (Attachment 7);
(c) Local Counterpart Funding - measured by the number of days between invoice
presentation date by the contractor and date of effective payment. This time period
should be less than 60 days; and
1..2. Output indicators:
(a) Contract Cost - measured by the difference of final contract cost after completion
and its estimated cost forecasted at procurement stage. It should not exceed 10% of
contract estimated cost plus price adjustments (if contract includes price adjustment
clause).
(b) Contract Completion Date Performance - measured by the number of days
between contract real completion date and its forecast completion date included in
the contract agreement. It should not exceed 15% of contract forecast execution
time;
(c) Number of Houses Constructed - measured by the number of houses constructed
in each province as compared with the estimated number of houses programmed in
appraisal;
(d) Number of Shelters Constructed - measured by the number of shelters
constructed in each province as compared with the programmed in appraisal;



- 128-                            ANNEX 12
1..3. Outcome/Impact Indicators:
(a) Flood Defense Works Effectiveness - measured by comparing the performance
of the constructed defenses during the annual flood period of the rivers versus their
forecast performance.
(b) Population Affected by Floods - measured by the number of people affected by
future floods as compared with the number of people affected by the 1992 flood by
province:
Province:     Population Affected in 1992
Buenos Aires         453,000
Chaco                328,000
Corrientes           659,000
Entre Rios           883,000
Formosa              246,000
Misiones             685,000
Santa Fe            1,987,000
(c) Population Attended by the Housing Program - measured by comparing the
population attended each year by the program in percentage of total population
expected to be attended by the program versus the following targets:
[Year                           19971199811999J20001 20011
Population Attended (Cumulative %) 20% 40% 60% 80%  100%
(d) Population Attended by Shelters - measured by comparing the population
attended each year by the program in percentage of total population expected to be
attended by the program versus the following targets:
Year                            1997119981 1999
Population Attended (Cumulative %) 10% 40%1 100%
Auditing
2.    An audit of the financial status of the program would take place once a year for the SUCCE
components and for each participant province (SUPCEs). The audit reports would be sent to the
Bank not more than five months after the end of the calendar year. The report would include, inter
alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of financial resources and their use and statement of
cumulative investment of the project; (b) SOEs; (c) special account, and (d) implementation of



-129-                              ANNEX 12
contracting clauses, including the application of eligibility criteria, and compliance with
procurement procedures and other financing conditions included in the POM. Audits would be
carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference (TORs)
similar to those used in the previous project. During appraisal, the TORs of the auditing work to
be carried out annually in the central implementing unit (SUCCE) and in each provincial
implementing unit (SUPCE) were agreed upon. The agreed TORs provide that in addition to the
opinion on the Project financial statements the auditor must issue a report with opinions on:
(a) whether the Project financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the funds
received and the disbursements made during the period audited, as well as the accumulated
investments as at the closing date, in accordance with international accounting standards
issued by International Accounting Standards Committee (ISAC) and in accordance with the
requirements of the respective agreements with the Bank;
(b) whether the supplementary financial information for the Project is fairly presented, in
all material respects;
(c) the adequacy of the internal control structure of the implementing agencies in regard to
the Project. The auditor should evaluate the internal control structure of SUCCE and of
each SUPCE identifying reportable conditions including material weaknesses in the internal
control structure. This evaluation should also include internal controls related to counterpart
funds;
(d) the implementation agencies compliance with the terms of the Loan Agreement and
applicable laws and regulations. The auditors should issue a positive assertion for all items
tested and a negative assertion with respect to those not tested. All instances of material
non-compliance must be identified;
(e) whether: (i) the statement of expenditures (SOEs) are reasonably dependable, (ii) the
accounting for the preparation of the SOEs is adequate, and (iii) the Project funds have been
used only for Project purposes in accordance with the Loan Agreement;
(f) whether the Special Account used for managing the funds provided by the Bank presents
fairly the availability of funds at the end of the period audited, as well as the transactions
made during that period, in accordance with the provisions for use of the funds in the
corresponding agreements with the Bank.






-131-                            ANNEX 13
ARGENTINA
Flood Protection Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Cuenca del Rio de la Plata - Inventario y Analisis de la Informaci6n Basica sobre
Recursos Naturales - Organization of American States (OAS), 3 Volumes, 1971
2.    Cuenca del Rio de la Plata - Inventario de Datos Hidrol6gicos y Climatol6gicos -
Organization of American States (OAS), 2 Volumes, 1969
3.    An Analysis of Flooding in the Parana/Paraguay River Basin, The World Bank,
September 1993
4.    Recopilaci6n de Antecedentes Danlos de Crecidas 1983 y 1992 - Evaluaci6n Econ6mica,
Ing. Roberto Bergman, Argentina, February 1994
5.    Hidrovia - An initial Environmental Examination of the Paraguay-Parana Waterway,
Wetlands for the Americas, 1993
6.    ARGENTINA - Legal Framework for the Intergovernmental Division of Responsibilities
in Water Resources, Negri, Teijeiro & Incera, Argentina, September 1993
7.    Estudio sobre la Legislaci6n de Situaciones de Emergencia (Referida a Inundaciones),
Dr. Rogelio Wester Vincenti, Argentina, December 1994
8.    Evaluaci6n de las Actividades Dedicadas al Alerta Hidrol6gico en los Rios Parana,
Paraguay y Uruguay en la Republica Argentina, Dr. Juan B. Vald6z, December 1993
9.    Estudio de Regulaci6n del Valle Aluvial de los Rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay para
el Control de las Inundaciones, Sir. Halcrow & Partners Ltd., September 1994,
composed of 11 volumes: Report; Geomorfology; Hydrology; Floods; Socio-economic
Aspects; Land Usage; Environmental Aspects; Economic Impact of Floods; Methodology
to "Live with Floods"; Legal and Institutional Aspects; Flood Risk Maps
10.   Environmental Assessment, composed of four volumes: Report; Technical Annex;
Participatory Approach; Environmental Analysis of all Sub-Projects, Group of
Consultants headed by Juan Schnack, Argentina, August 1995
11.   Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Regional y de los Subproyectos del Programa de Protecci6n
contra Inundaciones, Econ. Andres Carlos Planas, Argentina, December 1995






IBRD 27719
BOLIVI                                                                   A R G E N T I N A.
BOLIVI  /                                   LOCALIZATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
J J   ,    ,0 SUB-PROJECTS              NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGIONAL SUB-PROJECTS:          RIVERS
(j~')  PUENTES SANTA FE                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
I    z os  -REGION BOUNDARIES
* j        %                        (H)  PUENTES MISIONES            ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'/ q   <Re  j   >Xo                  @)  SITEMA HiDRICO FORMOSA
-2A 0   s A  L T    AaR 's                                                  ,          100         200         300 KILOMETERS
24'I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~    A LT A   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~24'
N O R T H - /
< A   /                             0  @  e         CLORINDA                                                   02
/ k              ]                  <vk                       0SOf ~r~    ~ PUERTO )GUAZ
WE    T                           C         H  A  C        AFORMOSA             P A
.   I   %   I  A X -W- J X i S f~~~~'~  
5 A  N  T I A  G  O                                                                            P IANDASCIA'\ R'O
E L                                             H     -    E    A       S     T    \4NJAV)IE Rt,\
-28 '  E S    EX  R 0                                                                                                              28
<  X     |                    >    ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~BELLA VISTA    tEn 
\   \   \  ^   C OIR R I E N T E S  :/   The boundaries, colors, denominotions and
any other informotion shomn on
Thi. map do not im,ply, on the port of
T A   a  YA                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heWrld Bak Group, any judgment
_. -                  \5\>_             A  N                                                            on the legal status of ony territory, or
*.-4--)  [  CUENCA v toF   E#)   c   CURUZU-CUATIA  /   56 t~    any endorsement or acceptance of
F                                  56    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~ ~~such boundaries.
L 5 [AS CONCHAS ,           ESCUINA
CUNA A.N      NTETNONERCIN
-320~ ~ Lo i A       M                        A        N LA PAZf3                                    }.        |      9UUUY
32h                                       DIAMANTE   R I 0  S         OON       Ce
-'\ M. CARRJZ4L                                                         7                        -; - -.| si       ArCU  oELmpE*R;
CUENC 'A                  A L                                                                        3AC 
COLAS IN EN  E N                  R E                                               ENTIN I
A A  m                                                                                         R N1A996UAURUGUAY
CARRARADRO 
BARADER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ACH19






IBRD 27720
64-                                            60- 0
/BOLIVIA  i                                                  ARGENTI NA
mA'1 / GENERAL LOCALIZATION OF FLOOD RISK MAPS
SHORELINES (1992)                              @   PROVINCE CAPITALS
_____) FLOODLINES THAT OCCUR APPROXIMATELY           6   NATIONAL CAPITAL
EVERY 100 YEARS                                     RIVERS
BOUNDARIES OF ALLUVIAL VALLEYS                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
lp                                                               PROVINCE BITIESNADATOWN
2*% ~~~------- FLVOEOyDLI0NES TRHAT OCCUR APPROXIMATELY             REGION BOUNDARIES
LTA< '                             0 !     O   SELECTED YITIES AR D TOWNS            ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOTE: ALL FLOODLINES ARE TENTATIVE AND THUS REQUIRE CAREFUL INTERPRETATlON
-24-   S A  L T A *^ r |AT THE LOCAL LEVEL. THE AVAILABILITY OF BETTER LOCAL TOPOGRAPHICAL
INFORMATION COULD CAUSE ADJUSTMENTS TO THEM.                     2,4
/ 'i. \ SOURCES: SATELUTE IMAGES LANDSAT TM; MATHEMATICAL MODELLING, ONDA;
CARTOGRAPHY, l.G.M.; EXIS1lNG GEOMORPHOLOGICAL WORK- AND
/   /                                 N.. +  GEOMORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS DONE FOR THE CURRENT STU6Y.
NO R T H- 
<X\  / -<N s / \                                      sro
,- ( -----I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t. I <1 o
|   WE  T                              C        H A C                                S PA
5 A      T '1   A GO 0                           R                              f                      \
EContogo DE             I        N     0      RnEs                         A
-28       E ST ER  0                                                                                                                 2
0~~~~~~~                                              '
NTE      The bosudor  colors, denoMina:tions and
K                                                                  this map do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ at iml,on theown on
A  T A  ~~~~~~~~~YPe                       heWrl  kGopanju1ment
any~~~~ ~~~      oro etracetne,
E                      Pao los Lir              560         uhbonais
tog-nO M.r   -'  \<NkRAG  Y 
Cordo6a                                                                                                                    )
I  MA, t        *Prn    E N          E R E
-321    P      A        M   \   P                                            n31UUUY
Diomanl.   RI  S  C                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Areaofa
C  O R  DO>8A                                 Cocpc\
0'-
0    1?0        ~200         300               BUENOSARS
MARC H 1996






IBRD 27721
BOLIVIA                           60'                        S9-                        58-                        57-
!A  .                                                                 ARGENTINA
Ara1 ;AgY    -23-                            FLOOD RISK MAP FOR                                                       23
I map z  CORRIENTES - CHACO - FORMOSA AREA
0            50            100          ISO
KILOMETERS
..W~s Ai t .    SNOTES: ALL FLOODLINES ARE TENTATIVE AND THUS REQUIRE CAREFUL INTERPRETATION AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
THE AVAILABILITY OF BETTER LOCAL TOPOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COULD CAUSE ADJUSTMENTS TO THEM.
IN SOME LOCATIONS WHERE THERE IS NO INDICATION OF A FLOODLINE OCCURRING EVERY 20 YEARS,
IT IS ASSUMED THAT IT COINCIDES WITH THE FLOODLINE THAT OCCURS APPROXIMATELY EVERY 100 YEARS.
24'     GEOGRAPHIC PROJECTION, GAUSS KRUGER                                                      24-
,,t   S  '    t      S                          THE COORDINATES REFERRED TO ABOVE CORRESPOND TO THE FIVE BELTS OF THE PANAMA RIVER.
*                       |                        nI tt: 1lS lSOURCES: SATELLITE IMAGES LANDSAT TM MATHEMATICAL MODELLING, ONDA;
CARTOGRAPHY I.G.M  EXlIStNG GEOMORPHOLOGICAL WORK- AND
g    ). /             |     |                   GEOMORPHOLOCICAE ANALYSIS DONE FOR THE CURRENT STU6Y.
25'                              20                                                              5
SHORELINES (1992)
FLOODLINES THAT OCCUR               266
APPROXIMATELY EVERY 100 YEARS
BOUNDARIES OF ALLUVIAL VALLEYS                                                    Formos                 PARAGUAY X
FLOODLINES THAT OCCUR
APPROXIMATELY EVERY 20 YEARS
O   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
(O  PROVINCE CAPITALS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
--  RIVERS                                                                 Puerto B
---- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   2        CA7
REGION BOUNDARIES
--~ -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       ;Iencia
BSrr an   r     rientes
N     I   rR      T       H      -     E     A      S     T
The boundaries, colors, denominotions                                             _ - - -- - -  - -  - -mpedrao                         28B
ond any other information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory, or                                                    c O    R  R  I Ee1 T E
any endorsement or acceptance of        P A  M  P E A  N  A                                                A/  N    E
such boundaries.
S  A  N  T A j        !                                               '     6er
FE 
-29'                         oaS'                                                 7         
IL 60'                                                 589'7
MARCH 1996






5660                                                 5680                                                   5700                                             (
ARGENTINA I N 
FLOOD RISK FOR CITY OF FORMOSA AREA                                                                                                                                                /
-      1. SHORELINE (1992)
2. FLOODLINE THAT OCCURS APPROXIMATELY EVERY 100 YEARS
3. BOUNDARY OF ALLUVIAL VALLEY
4. FLOODLINE THAT OCCURS APPROXIMATELY EVERY 20 YEARS
ROADS
*          INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
-__-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOTES:
All flqodlines alre tentative and thus require corefut interpretohon at the localt level.               4/                                           _      
The availability of better local topogrophicol information could cause adjustments to them.
7120            In some locations, where there is no indication of a floodline occuring every 20 years,                /                                                                                           71,0
it is assumed that it coincides with the floodline that occurs capproximately every I100 years.                                                                                           o   any
Sources:  sotellite ima,es,Landsct TM; mathematical modelling ONDA; cartograiphy,//\                                                                                    
I.G.M. ; existing geomorpt ological work: and geomorphologicol analisys done for t e current study./>                                               
GEOGRAPHIC PROJECTION, Gauss Kruger                                                                  /                                /                       \              /    i      o
The coordinates referred in this map correspond to the five belts of Parana Rivero  t   mo   d   not
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThWolBanAk Group,
o         4          a          1 2        1 6                                       =                                  \       /      /\ 
KJLOMETEtRS                                                                                                                                                                  of \
C')~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ N--                                                                                                                                          or'--  an enosm
AZIL    r 7100                 /                   $            )                                 /               J                                     710p -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70
/    Arer of MrP                                3                                        /EIPucu  |                  ~                  /                   >            P A  R A G  Uoa e    s
ARGENTINA    UR                                                                 2ound-res|
e ,,  i .             r                                      (                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~The bo7undaries, colors,
t   .   -,   ,.             /sK                              1             1                f         >                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-nominotions andf an,v
|  t,   ,  ;,t,,:,s,. ,>,,,  /1                                      .          \                /                     \                    or acceptance of such          s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inply  o.thepar  o
0   _            ,,,. i.'.\R           ~~~~~~5060            //5680    /                                             0                             - \                          bounais                          tQ









1HA(A1U(l
Report No:      15354 AR
Type: SAR



