Page  1
December 19, 1997 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4117-AR (Flood Protection Project) Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated April 17, 
1997 (the Loan Agreement).  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your 
request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
The term "SSAP", wherever it appears in the Loan Agreement, is hereby replaced 
by the term "SAFP".
2.
Section 1.02 (h) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "‘SAFP’ 
means Secretaría de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias, the Secretariat of 
Financial Assistance to the Provinces of the Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior;".
3.
Section 1.02 (k) is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the end 
thereof.
4.
Section 1.02 (l) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with the word "; and".
5.
A new Section 1.02 (m) is hereby added after Section 1.02 (l) to read as follows 
in its entirety:  "‘Emergency Subproject’ means a First Priority Subproject which is 
identified in the Operational Manual as being of particular importance to protect 
against the actual or potential flooding effects of the El Niño meteorological 
phenomenon as such phenomenon has impacted, or may impact, the Participating Provinces 
during the last semester of 1997 and/or during 1998.".
6.
Section 3.07 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the date "August 31, 1997" with 
the date "April 30, 1998".
7.
A new paragraph (c) is added immediately after paragraph (b) in Section I, Part 
C.1 of Schedule 4, to read as follows in its entirety:  "Notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Part C.1, goods for Emergency Subprojects, 
estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 million equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 
C.1 (c), standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.".
8.
The text under Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 4 is hereby labeled as paragraph 
(a) of said Part C.2.
9.
A new paragraph (b) is added immediately after paragraph (a) in Section I, Part 
C.2 of Schedule 4, to read as follows in its entirety:  "Notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Part C.2, goods for Emergency Subprojects, 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.".
10.
The text under Section I, Part C.3 of Schedule 4 is hereby labeled as paragraph 
(a) of said Part C.3.
Page  2
11.
A new paragraph (b) is added immediately after paragraph (a) in Section I, Part 
C.3 of Schedule 4, to read as follows in its entirety:  "Notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Part C.3, works for Emergency Subprojects, 
estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at 
least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.".
12.
Section I, Part D.2 of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of 
this Section; (b) the first two contracts or bid packages for works per calendar year 
procured under Part C.1 (b) of this Section; (c) the first two contracts or bid 
packages for works per calendar year procured under Part C.3 (a) of this Section; and 
(d) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods per calendar year procured under 
Part C.1 (a) of this Section; (e) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods 
per calendar year procured under Part C.2 (a)  of this Section; (f) the first two 
contracts or bid packages for goods per calendar year procured under Part C.1 (c) of 
this Section; (g) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods per calendar year 
procured under Part C.2 (b) of this Section; and (h) the first two contracts or bid 
packages for works per calendar year procured under Part C.3 (b) of this Section.".
13.
Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (c) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $18,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
  for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Minister of the Interior
Roque Fernández
Carlos Corach
Date: April 13, 1998
