IAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1189 BEN
DOCUMPTS     CREDIT NUMBER 1190 TO
Project Agreement
(Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU BENIN
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1189 BEN
CkEDIT NUMBER 1190 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       PIAX      , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO (herein ter called the Association) and
COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU BENIN (hereinafter called CEB).
WHEREAS (A) by development credit agreements of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of Benin and the Republic
of Togo, respectively, and the Association (hereinafter called the
Benin Development Credit Agreement and the Togo Development Credit
Agreement, respectively), the Association has agreed to make
available to the People's Republic of Benin an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000), and to the Republic of
Togo an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000) on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreements (as such term is defined hereinafter), but only on
condition that CEB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the People's Republic of Benin and the Republic of Togo,
respectively, and CEB (the "Benin Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and
the "Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement", respectively), the proceeds
of the credits provided for under the Development Credit Agree-
ments will be made available to CEB on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;
(C)   Parts B.1 (b), B.2 (b), B.3 (b), and C.1 of the Project
will be carried out by the Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
("CEET") with the assistance of the Republic of Togo and CEB and,
as part of such assistance, CEB will make available part of the
funds received by it under the Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to CEET as hereinafter provided;
(D)   Parts B.1 (c), B.3 (c), and C.2 of the Project will be
carried out by the Socifte Beninoise d'Electricitg et d'Eau
("SBEE") with the assistance of the People's Republic of Benin and
CEB and, as part of such assistance, CEB will make available
part of the funds received by it under the Benin Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to SBEE as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS CEB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreements has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble, in Section 1.02 of the Togo Development Credit
Agreement and the Benin Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   the term "Development Credit Agreements" means the
Togo Development Credit Agreement and the Benin Development Credit
Agreement;
(b)   the term "Credits" means the credits provided for under
the Development Credit Agreements;
(c)   the term "Borrowers" means the People's Republic of
Benin and the Republic of Togo, individually and not jointly;
(d)   the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the Benin
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(e) the term "Financing Agreements" means the CEET Financing
Agreement and the SBEE Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CEB    shall carry out Parts A, B.1 (a),
B.2 (a), B.3 (a), C.3 and C.4 of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreements with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and power utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, CEB shall provide as and when needed, out
of its own resources, the amounts necessary to cover all local
expenditures for the Parts of the Project referred to in paragraph


﻿-3-
(a) of this Section; for the purposes of this paragraph, the term
"local expenditures" means expenditures for goods or services
supplied from the territory of either one of the Borrowers.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist CEB in carrying out
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.1 (a), B.3 (a), C.3 and C.4 of the Project,
CEB shall employ engineering and power utility consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. For the purpose of
carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, CEB shall employ a panel of
experts whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist CEB in carrying out Part B.2 (a)
of the Project, CEB shall employ independent auditors acceptable
to the Association.
(c)   CEB shall cooperate fully with the consultants and
experts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and with the
auditors referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section in the
performance of their services for the Project and shall make
available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(d)   CEB shall promptly furnish to the Association copies
of the documents prepared for the Project by the consultants and
experts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including
reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications,
work schedules and estimates of costs, in such number as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(e)   For the purpose of carrying out Part B.3 (a) of the
Project, CEB shall select the consultants referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section in agreement with CEET and SBEE and in consul-
tation with the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
CEB shall cause all services (including any goods provided for in
the contracts for such services) financed out of the proceeds
of the Credits to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) CEB: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the services and goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credits, and to disclose their use in the Project;


﻿-4-
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit any facilities and sites relevant to the Project and
to examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
services and goods financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   Upon the award by CEB of any contract for services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credits,-the Association
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CEB and the
Association, CEB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by CEB, CEET, SBEE and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, and the Financing Agreements and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credits.
(d)   CEB shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of CEB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. CEB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, CEB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving either of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) By financing agreements to be entered into
between CEB and CEET and SBEE, respectively, on terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association and which
shall include, inter alia, those set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement, CEB shall make available to CEET $510,000 equivalent
of the funds made available to it pursuant to the Togo Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and to SBEE $340,000 equivalent of the funds made
available to it purs-uant to the Benin Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
(b)   CEB shall exercise its rights under the CEET Financing
Agreement and the SBEE Financing Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Republic of Togo and the People's
Republic of Benin, respectively, the Association and CEB, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Development Credit Agreements,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CEB shall
not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive either of the Financing
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CEB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the
Financing Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credits.
(b)   CEB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credits,
or the performance by CEB of its obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, or the Financing Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CEB
Section 3.01. (a) CEB shall at all times manage its affairs
in accordance with appropriate administrative, commercial,
financial, engineering and power utility practices, with
experienced and competent management and with competent staff
in adequate numbers.
(b)   Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, CEB shall operate and maintain its equipment,
machinery and facilities, and shall make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering
and power utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In accordance with the terms of the Accord
referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreements, CEB shall take all steps necessary to maintain its
legal existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such
licenses, consents, franchises or other rights as may be necessary
or useful for its operations.


﻿-6-
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CEB
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
conduct of its operations.
Section 3.03. CEB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CEB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. CEB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each Fiscal Year starting with Fiscal
Year 1980 audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year (except for Fiscal Year 1980, for which
the documents specified hereafter shall be furnished by January 1,
1982), (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of CEB and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request; and (iv) furnish to the
Association such information and documentation as the Association
may reasonably request with respect to the review of CEB's
accounting system and procedures provided for under Part B.2 (a)
of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreements become
effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of CEB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which either the Togo Development
Credit Agreement or the Benin Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, provided that the other of the said
Agreements shall have terminated theretofore or
shall terminate on the same date; or
(ii) a date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If both the Togo Development Credit Agreement and the
Benin Development Credit Agreement terminate in accordance with
their terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CEB of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified. or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CEB:
Communaute Electrique du B&nin
Direction G&nerale
Rue de 1'Hopital
B.P. 1368
Lome, Togo
Cable address:
BENELEC
Lome, Togo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under
this Agreement on behalf of CEB, and any action required or
permitted to be taken by CEB under the provisions of Section 2.08
of each of the Development Credit Agreements, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager of CEB or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and CEB  shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 9 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     DCA     A    V3V,
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU BENIN
ByK
Authorized Representative
By
Auth rized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of
the Financing Agreements
(Section 2.06 (a))
For the purposes of this Schedule, the expression "CEET
and SBEE" means CEET and SBEE individually and not jointly, and
the term "Grants" means the amounts to be made available to CEET
and SBEE under their respective Financing Agreements.
The Financing Agreements shall include, inter alia, the
following terms:
1.    CEET and SBEE may withdraw the proceeds of the Grants
only for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
(including any goods included in the contracts for such services)
required for their respective Parts of the Project and which are
eligible for financing under the Togo Development Credit Agreement
and the Benin Development Credit Agreement, respectively. With-
drawal requests shall be made in such form as shall be specified
by CEB and CEET's and SBEE's right to withdraw the proceeds of the
respective Grants shall be subject to CEB's own right to withdraw
the funds to be made available to it under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
2.    CEET shall carry out Parts B.1 (b), B.2 (b), B.3 (b)
and C.1 of the Project and SBEE shall carry out Parts B.1 (c), B.3
(c) and C.2 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and power utility practices. CEET and SBEE shall
provide as and when needed, out of their own resources, the
amounts necessary to cover all local expenditures for their
respective Parts of the Project.
3.    (a) In order to assist CEET and SBEE in carrying out
their respective Parts of the Project (except for Part B.2 (b) for
CEET), CEET and SBEE shall employ engineering and power utility
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist CEET in carrying out Part B.2 (b) of
the Project, CEET shall employ independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.


﻿- 11 -
(c)   CEET and SBEE shall cooperate fully with said
consultants and auditors and shall make available to them all
information relevant to their respective Parts of the Project.
(d)   CEET AND STIEE shall promptly furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared for the Project by the consultants
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including reports
and drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules
and estimates of costs, in such number as the AssOciation shall
reasonably request.
(e)   CEET shall cause the auditors referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section to furnish to the Association: (i) as soon as
available (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
Fiscal Year 1980 as audited in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, and (B) the report of such
audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; (ii) such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of CEET and the audit
thereof as the Association shall reasonably request; and (iii)
copies of the documents prepared by the auditors with respect to
their review of CEET's accounting system and procedures, including
reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(f)   For the purpose of carrying out Parts B.3 (b) and B.3
(c) of the Project, CEET and SBEE shall select the consultants
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof in agreement with each other
and CEB and in consultation with the Association.
4.    (a) CEET and SBEE: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to monitor the progress of their respective
Parts of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to
be derived from them), to identify the services and goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Grants and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities included in their
respective Parts of the Project and to examine any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning their Parts of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the services and goods
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12 -
(b)   Upon the award by CEET and SBEE of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grants,
the Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(c)   CEET and SBEE shall assist CEB in the preparation of
the Project completion report referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of
this Agreement with respect to their respective Parts of the
Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


