CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 716 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1977, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BENIN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
France, acting through the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration, a
grant (hereinafter called the FAC Grant) in an amount of three
million five hundred thousand French francs (FF 3,500,000) to
assist in financing the Project, on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the FAC Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and FAC; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SONAGRI" means the Socift6 Nationale pour la
Production Agricole, established and operating pursuant to the
SONAGRI Statutes;
(b) "SONAGRI Statutes" means the statutes approved by Decree
No. 75-338 of December 29, 1975, of the Borrower, as such statutes
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "CARDER" means any Centre d'Action R6gionale pour
le D6veloppement Rural established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 75-84 of December 29, 1975, as
the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(d) "MDRAC" means the MinistAre de D6veloppement Rural et
de l'Action Coop6rative, the Borrower's Ministry in charge of
rural development, or any successor thereto;
(e)  "FAS" means the Fcnds Autonome de Stabilisation et de
Soutien des Prix des Produits Agricoles, established and operating
pursuant to the statutes approved by the Borrower's Ordinance
No. 75-70, dated September 18, 1975, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(f) "EPD" means the Evaluation and Planning Directorate of
SONAGRI to be established under Part B of the Project; and
(g) "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de
la Communaut6 Financiare Africaine, the common currency of
the Borrower and the other members of the West African Monetary
Union.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand dollars
($1,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1987, and ending March 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part H of the
Project through MDRAC and shall cause SONAGRI to carry out the other
Parts of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, economic
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make available
to SONAGRI, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Credit and of
the FAC Grant allocated to Parts A through G of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist MDRAC and SONAGRI in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and cause
SONAGRI to employ, specialists and consultants as set forth in
paragraph A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association. Such specialists and consultants shall have
qualifications and experience and be employed on terms and
conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to facilitate the work of the specialists and


﻿-7-
consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in the
performance of their services for the Project and make available
to them all information required for such work.
(c) The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI not to amend or waive
any of the terms and conditions of employment of any specialists
or consultants employed for Parts A through G of the Project and
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or to grant any
material extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts or
modifications thereof, or to agree to any substitution of
personnel of such consultants, or to suspend payments under, or to
terminate, any contract with such specialists or consultants, and
the Borrower shall not take any such action in respect of the
specialists or consultants employed for Part H of the Project,
without the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ and
cause SONAGRI to employ qualified local personnel as required for
the diligent and efficient execution of the Project. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, such personnel shall include,
inter alios, the staff listed in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement which shall be appointed not later than September 30,
1977.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause MDRAC and SONAGRI
to insure, or to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by MDRAC or SONAGRI, respectively, to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) Promptly upon completion of any reports
and studies prepared by specialists or consultants under the
Project, including drafts the2eof, the Borrower shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Association copies thereof in such
number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause SONAGRI: (i) to prepare, not
later than March 31, 1978, a draft plan for the reorganization of


﻿-9-
SONAGRI's administration and accounts; and (ii) promptly upon
completion of such draft plan, to furnish it to the Association
for its review and comments.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI to furnish
to the Association, promptly after the end of each quarter until
the completion of the Project, a report on the activities of EPD
during such quarter, the first such report to cover the quarter
ending December 31, 1977.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall jointly review,
in December of each year until completion of the Project, the
findings and recommendations of EPD regarding agricultural producer
prices and production incentives.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
review and comments, the proposals for the rural development
projects to be prepared by SONAGRI under Part B (ii) of the
Project for the Provinces of Borgou and Zou not later than June 30,
1978, and December 31, 1978, respectively.
Section 3.08. In order to carry out Part C (i) of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause the audio-visual workshop at Bohicon to
be used to meet the needs of all its agricultural extension
services.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.09. Not later than September 30, 1977, the Borrower
shall cause SONAGRI to furnish to the Association, for its review
and concurrence, a detailed program, including a budget, for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project, and shall thereafter cause
SONAGRI to carry out such program as agreed to by the Association.
Section 3.10. Not later than December 31, 1977, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its review and concurrence,
a detailed program of the activities to be carried out by MDRAC in
1978 under Parts H (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, in respect of Part H of the Project, and shall cause
SONAGRI to furnish to the Association, in respect of the other
Parts of the Project, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower:
(i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part H of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to said Part of the Project, and to
disclose the use thereof in said Part of the
Project;


﻿- 11 -
(ii) shall cause SONAGRI to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts A through G of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to SONAGRI,
and to disclose the use thereof in said Parts of
the Project;
(iii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and
(iv) shall furnish, and. cause SONAGRI to furnish, to the
Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to make available, as and
when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project and the operation
of the facilities included therein.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of MDRAC in respect of
Part H of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI, until
completion of the Project, to maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SONAGRI,
including a separate account recording all expenditures under
Parts A through G of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
until completion of the Project audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, buAt in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such


﻿- 13 -
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of SONAGRI for such years
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI, until
completion of the Project, to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. In order to strengthen the financial position
of SONAGRI and to ensure the availability of resources to SONAGRI
for the purpose of providing, on credit, seasonal inputs and
agricultural implements to farmers, the Borrower shall, without
limitation upon its obligations pursuant to Section 3.01 of this
Agreement:
(a) cause FAS to pay to SONAGRI, not later than September 30,
1977, the balance of the amounts due to SONAGRI on account of
subsidies provided to farmers for agricultural inputs since
January 1, 1974;
(b) pay to SONAGRI, during 1978, a grant of four hundred
fifty million CFA francs (CFAF 450,000,000) in three equal payments,
the first of which shall be made not later than March 31, 1978; and
.1


﻿- 14 -
(c) take or cause to be taken all action necessary to ensure
that, in 1977 and each year thereafter until completion of the
Project, the price for cotton sales by SONAGRI is set at a level
at least adequate to enable SONAGRI to recover, in addition to
its production and operating costs (including financial charges
relating to cotton operations), the subsidies provided to cotton
farmers in such year.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause SONAGRI, until
completion of the Project, to manage its affairs, to carry out its
operations and to maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and
agricultural practices, under qualified and experienced
management, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the facilities and
equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be.
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, economic and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Suspension
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SONAGRI or for the suspension of its operations.
(b) The SONAGRI Statutes shall have been amended, suspended
or abrogated so as to materially and adversely affect the
operations or financial condition of SONAGRI.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the FAC Grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the FAC Agreement.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:


﻿- 16 -
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under the
FAC Agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the FAC Agreement has been duly
signed and conditions, if any, precedent to initial disbursements
under said Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date September 1, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        522 MINECOP
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Thomas Boya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works, vehicles          200,000          67%
and equipment for
Parts A through F of
the Project
(2) Specialists and con-            670,000         100%
sultants' services as
provided in paragraphs
A. 1 (a) and 2 (a) of
Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
(3) Operating costs (ex-             80,000          67%
cept salaries of lo-
cal staff) of SONAGRI
under the Project, in-
cluding training visits
abroad and fellowships
for SONAGRI and CARDER
personnel
(4) Salaries of SONAGRI              30,000          39%
staff referred to in
paragraphs B. 1 and 2
of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
(5) Civil works and equip-          130,000          67%
ment under Part G of
the Project


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Civil works, vehicles          170,000          67%
and equipment for Part
H of the Project and
operating costs (ex-
cept salaries of local
staff) of MDRAC under
the Project
(7) Salaries of local MDRAC        120,0O          39%
staff employed under
Part H of the Project
(8) Consultants' services           30,000          100%
provided in para-
graph A. 2 (b) of
Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated                    270,000
TOTAL        1,700,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) for any expenditure in respect of Category (5) for a
pilot rural development activity under Part G of the Project,
unless the Association shall have agreed, before such expenditure
has been incurred, to the carrying out of such activity under said
Part of the Project on the basis of a detailed plan for such
activity acceptable to the Association prepared by SONAGRI and
furnished to the Association through the Borrower.


﻿- 23 -
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the


﻿- 2~4 -
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 25 -
SCHFDUJLE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in planning
and implementing its agricultural development policy and
strengthening the institutions responsible therefor. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the financial management of SONAGRI,
including the establishment of effective accounting and
cost control procedures and the training of SONAGRI and
CARDER financial and accounting staff.
Part B:   Establishment and initial operation of an evaluation and
planning directorate within SONAGRI for the purpose of:
(i) assisting and evaluating the agricultural services
of CARDERs:;
(ii) preparing rural development projects for the
Provinces of Borgou and Zou; and
(iii) monitoring agricultural producer prices and
production incentives.
Part C:   (i) Training of SONAGRI and CARDER technical staff
and preparation of a training program for the
purposes of the rural development projects to be
prepared under Part B (ii) of the Project.
(ii) Carrying out of a blacksmith training program.


﻿- 26 -
Part D:   A maize seed multiplication program, including the
establishment of a seed production farm in the Province
of Borgou.
Part E:   Provision of trucks and staff vehicles for SONAGRI.
Part F:   Preparation of rural development projects for the areas
freed from onchocerciasis in the Provinces of Atakora
and Borgou.
Part G:   A program of pilot rural development activities in the
Provinces of Borgou and Zou, such as provision of
agricultural inputs and village processing facilities.
Part H:   (i) A program of applied research (including training)
on cotton production, and of cotton seed
multiplication.
(ii) A program of applied research on foodcrop
production, including training and the
establishment, equipping and initial operation of
an experimental field station at Okpara.
(iii) Establishment, equipping and initial operation of
an experimental field station for the purposes of
Part F of the Project.
(iv)  Carrying out of detailed agricultural surveys in
the Provinces of Borgou and Zou.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with the applicable procedures of the Borrower. To the extent
feasible, vehicles shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as
to permit bulk procurement.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$10,000 may be procured in accordance with other applicable
procedures of the Borrower, including solicitation of price
quotations from the local suppliers.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Association shall be furnished,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, with two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, price quotations or other offers received, as the
case may be, a justification of the award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The


﻿- 28 -
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower or SONAGRI, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
I


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance and Staffing
A.   Technical Assistance
1.   Specialists
Part of the Project Approximate
for which special-   duration of
ists' services are   services (in
to be used        man-months)
(a) SONAGRI:
(i) a financial
adviser*:             A                18
(ii) an agricultural
economist**:          B                18
(iii) an agronomist*:        B                12
(iv) a training
specialist**:         C (i)            24
(v) a blacksmith
training
specialist*:          C (ii)           18
(b) MDRAC:
a cotton research
specialist**:         H (i)            24
To be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
* To be financed out of the proceeds of the FAC Grant.


﻿- 30 -
2. Consultants*
Approximate
Part of the Project   aggregate
for which consul-    duration of
Type of     tants' services are  services (in
Consultants       to be used       man-months)
(a) SONAGRI:
(i) Finance and
management (in-
cluding external
auditing)             A                 23
(ii) Agricultural           B (ii)            10
project pre-          F                 25
paration
(iii) Seed production        D                  2
(iv) Other               as required           4
(b) MDRAC:
(i) Cotton research        H (i)             2
(ii) Food research          H (ii)             2
B.   Staffing
1.   Part A of the Project
Five accountants to be trained by the specialists
and consultants referred to in paragraphs A. 1 (a)
(i) and A. 2 (a) (i) of this Schedule.
2.   Part B of the Project
An agricultural economist and an agronomist.
*    To be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 31 -
3. Part E (i) of the Project
Six agronomists.


