Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rewt N,.P-4230-:.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt109 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED 4EXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRODERITH II)
February 7, 1986
Thi docet b  a restided dklxbomm ad may be wed by replemts only in the performanc of
Ideir oUdal dud. lb mteint ma mot othrwis be didlsd wi tht  wiod Bak uthorizdo.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On January 30, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was US$1 = Mex$400.90; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$441.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(est. December 1985)
US$1              =  Mex$ 380
Mex$ I             =  US$0.0026
Mex$ 1 million    =  US$2,632
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)                  =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)                =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)        =  0.39 square miles = 100 ha
I kilogram (kg)                 =  2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                     =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = I metric ton (t)    =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA         -    National Insurance Company, S.A.
BANRURAL      -    National Rural Credit Bank
CPNH          -    National Water Plan Commission
CRECIDATH     -    Tropical Center for Extension Training
CSAT           -    College for Tropical Agriculture
DGID          -    General Directorate for Irrigation and Drainage
ERR            -    Economic Rate of Return
EFF           -    Extended Fund Facility
FIRA          -    Agricultural Trust Fund
FRR           -    Financial Rate of Return
IDB           -    Inter-American Development Bank
INIA          -    National Institute for Agricultural Research
INIFAP        -    National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and
Livestock Research.
INIF          -    National Institute for Forestry Research
INIP          -    National Institute for Livestock Research
NAFINSA        -    Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PRODERITH     -    Program for Development of the Humid Tropics, CPNH
PRONADRI      -    National Program for Integrated Rural Development,
1985-88
QRs            -    Quantitative Restrictions
RCRD          -    Regional Centers for Rural Development
RDD           -    Rural Development Districts
SARH          -    Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SAM            -    Mexican Food System
SCT           -    Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SRA            -    Secretariat of Agrarian Reform
SHCP          -    Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP            -    Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
USDA/SCS       -    United States Department of Agriculture/Soil
Conservation Service



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRODERnI II)
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA).
Guarantor:          United Mexican States.
Beneficiary:        Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH).
Amount:             US$109 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project             The project's main objectives would be to: (a) support
Objectives:         the Government's key objective to alleviate rural poverty
and raise rural incomes; (b) expand the rational
exploitation of Mexico's tropical lowlands using
technologies, administrative and organizational measures
which were successfully developed and replicated under
the first phase project; (c) increase agricultural
productivity and production; (d) improve agricultural
support services; (e) strengthen institutions to ensure
effective coordination of multi-sectoral programs in the
region; and (f) promote greater producer involvement in
operation and maintenance of infrastructure.
Project             The 850,000 ha project would bring about 143,000 ha of
Description:        new land into rainfed crop production and would intensify
crop and livestock production and productivity on
existing areas which currently suffer drainage problems.
To achieve its objectives the project would:
(a) construct drainage and road works; (b) provide
on-farm works; (c) implement soil conservation programs;
(d) streagthen farmer organization, extension and
research services; (e) train technical staff and
producers in the use of improved technology; (f) conduct
studies; (g) provide consultant support in priority
areas; and (h) improve planning and coordination of
regional development programs. The project would be
coordinated as in the first Tropical Agricultural
Development Project (PRODERITH I) by the National Water
Plan Commission in SARH.
This docwment ha a sticted distiution and may be used bY reipnts on0y in the perfomne of
tbeir oafrc datie Its conte  may not otrwie be dislosod without World Bank authoion.



- ii -
Project Benefits    The project is estimated to directly benefit about 40,000
and Risks:          families, the majority of whom are in the low income
target group. It would also provide employment opportu-
nities equivalent to about 25,800 full time jobs, in
addition to benefitting urban populations in the areas of
influence of flood control works and service roads.
The main risks would include (a) shortage of counterpart
funds and (b) problems of institutional coordination.
Although the project has been given priority status, the
shortage of counterpart funds is uzlikely to be com-
pletely alleviated.  However, partial Bank financing of
local costs should help ease the situation and SPP and
SARH have already agreed on 1986 (year 1) budget levels
close to projections proposed at appraisal. Problems of
institutional coordination should also be reduced by the
federal and state level coordination mechanisms already
established under the first phase project.
Estimated
Costs: 1/
Local      Foreign     Total
( (USS Million)
Infrastructure                               86.9         41.5        128.4
Extension Services                           17.9          2.4         20.3
Training                                      2.3          -            2.3
Research                                      7.7          4.7         12.4
Cousultants                                   -            1.8          1.8
Studies                                       3.3          -            3.3
Project Administration                        8.6          1.0          9.6
Base Cost                               126.7         51.4        178.1
Physical Contingencies                    5.3          3.2          8.5
Price Contingencies                      19.4         11.5         30.9
Total Project Cost                   151.4        66.1         217.5
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
-    -- US$ Million
Government                            108.5         -           108.5
Bank                                   42.9        66.1         109.0
Total                             151.4        66.1         217.5
1/ Rounded. Excluding taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY:     1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
(US$ Million)
Annual       1.0    8.0    13.0   16.0   19.0   19.0   16.0   12.0    5.0
Cumulative   1.0    9.0    22.0   38.0   57.0   76.0   92.0  104.0  109.0
Rate of Return: 23.32
Map:              IBRD 19197
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5931-ME, dated February 7, 1986.
;



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRODERITH II)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$109 million to help finance a Second Tropical
Agricultural Development Project to be implemented by the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH). The loan would be repaid over 15
years including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and information on recent economic
developments gathered by a new economic mission (September 1985) are
summarized below.
3.        Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experi-
enced some three decades of high and stable growth from the 1940s to the
1960s. By 1970, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and
efficient possibilities for import substitution. Against the expectation of
rapidly rising petroleum earnings, the Government attempted to foster growth
through expansion of public sector expenditures, rising subsidies, and the
protection of high cost domestic production. Public sector expenditures as a
percent of GDP increased by more than half between 1970 and 1976, from 20.9%
to 31.9%. In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic
crisis. Although an increase in oil revenues led Mexico to a quick economic
recovery in 1977, it also removed the urgency of policy reforms. Starting in
1980 rapidly rising public expenditures, unmatched by revenue growth led to
increasing public sector deficits. While inflation rose, no significant
pressure was felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and
the relative ease of obtaining foreign finance.
4.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedented level of 40.1% of GDP, while the deficit reached
nearly 18% of GDP. In February, as capital flight intensified, the Bank of
Mexico stopped supporting the peso, which then experienced a 40% devaluation
in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment and continuing slack in the oil
market tended to undo the effects of the devaluation and kept the balance of
payments under strain. Consumer price inflation nearly quadrupled from 29%
in 1981 to 99% in 1982. The international banking community declined to



- 2 -
commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in August 1982 and the suspension of amortization
payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. Capital flight continued
as private sector confidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks
in September 1982 and by the mandatory conversion of US dollar deposits into
pesos. Also introduced were exchange controls and quantitative restrictions
covering all imports.
5.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, which began its term
in December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and
external confidence. The Government's program, supported by an EFF agreement
approved by the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for renegotiation of
Mexico's external debt. Commercial banks agreed to restructure some USS19
billion of public sector debt and provide US$5 billion in net new loans for
1983. All obligations falling due between August 23, 1982 and December 31,
1984 were restructured over an 8-year period starting from January 1983, with
a grace period of 4 years and at an interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points
over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York prime rate). The US$5 billion
syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year grace period, at a spread of
2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The restructuring exercise included an
understanding that the international banks would maintain their exposure to
the nationalized Mexican banks. At the same time, it provided a mechanism
for eliminating private sector interest arrears and facilitating the payment
of the rescheduled principal on such debt.
6.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a
controlled market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except
those of in-bond industries) and debt-related transactions, and a free market
for all other transactions, including those relating to tourism. The
controlled rate was originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some
35% in relation to the previously prevailing rate. Both rates were subse-
quently adjusted daily, but at different speeds intended to bring about their
eventual unification. But from September 1983, the authorities decided to
allow both rates to slide at the same pace, thereby postponing reunification.
7.        The Government took additional steps to deal with the problems of
private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of nationalized banks,
and a more flexible application of the foreign investmeat law. Private
sector debts totalling approximately US$12 billion were registered under a
special Central Bank restructuring facility (FICORCA) at stretched out
maturities varying between 6 and 12 years, with 3- to 4-year grace periods.
Moreover, the Government undertook the restructuring of Mexican private
sector obligations guaranteed by official credit agencies abroad. The
Governmment also transferred back to private ownership most of the 400
private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks prior to their
nationalization.
8.        Under the IMF agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 17.7% of GDP in 1982 to
8.5Z in 1983, 6.2% in 1984, and 3.5% in 1985. The program objectives were
satisfied, and in some cases exceeded, during 1983. Public finances were
strengthened considerably. The public sector financial deficit was reduced



- 3 -
to 8.7% of GDP. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. Public employee
salaries were reduced by roughly 20X in real terms. As for the capital bud-
get, projects already far advanced and those important for employment, equi-
ty, or foreign exchange earnings were continued, but virtually no new pro-
jects were iaitiated, with the result that investment declined to less than
7% of GDP, well below the peak 1981 level of 13.9%. Exchange losses to the
public sector, which had reached 4.6% of GDP in 1982, were virtually elimi-
nated as the rate of devaluation slowed dramatically in 1983. Revenue per-
formance was aided by significant price increases for nearly all public goods
and services, including petroleum products, electricity rates, food, etc.
9.        As the domestic financing requirements of the public sector con-
tracted from 14% of GDP in 1982 to only 5% in 1983, monetary expansion slowed
correspondingly. Real saving deposit rates, which under controls had fallen
to highly negative real levels, were raised to mildly positive levels. These
adjustments, together with the previous exchange rate devaluations, greatly
eased speculative pressur's on the peso while bringing about an improving
trend in price stabilization. Consumer price inflation, which had peaked at
120Z in the twelve months ending in March 1983, declined steadily to around
80% by the end of the year. Needless to say, the sharp compression of real
incomes led to a deep recession. Economic activity contracted by 5.3% in
real terms, while wage employment fell by 1.5%. At the same time, the
balance of payments experienced a major turnaround, with the current account
moving from a deficit of over USS6 billion in 1982 to a surplus of US$5.3
billion in 1983, while international reserves rose from US$1.7 billion at the
end of 1982 to US$5.1 billion one year later.
10.       The adjustment process continued into 1984, but at a reduced pace
as the year progressed. The fiscal deficit (adjusted for postponed interest
payments) exceeded 9% of GDP, which was above the 6.2% target set for the
second year of the EFF program. The main factors in this deficit overrun
were higher-than-programmed expenditures for interest payments, a substantial
real growth in transfers and subsidies (especially for agriculture and the
state development banks), and lower-than-expected revenues from oil exports
and some non-petroleum taxes. Inflation continued its decline, falling by 20
percentage points to 59%, but this was well above the targeted level of 40%.
Several factors contributed to inflation overshooting its target. In early
1984, monetary control was greatly complicated by a rapid accumulation of
foreign reserves, which was unmatched by a commensurate increase in domestic
savings. Also, tighter capital and import controls had raised levels of
effective protection for domestic producers, making possible continued high
rates of domestic price increases. By late 1984, monetary policy came under
new expansionary pressure. This was in response to the mounting financial
needs of a public sector whose deficit was trending sharply upward, and to
accommodate the rapidly-growing demand for credit from a reviving private
sector. Domestic interest rates lost competitiveness with foreign rates
while the peso appreciated sharply in real terms, so that by December 1984
there were renewed indications of large-scale capital flight.
11.       Despite these difficulties, 1984 was a generally upbeat year, with
positive economic growth (3.5%) after two years of recession, and a mild
recovery of wage employment (2.7%). The balance of payments remained strong,



- 4 -
with a current account surplus of US$4.0 billion; and a further US$3.4 bil-
lion was added to the nation's foreign exchange reserves. The general
improvement in the Mexican economy up to mid-1984 was widely noted, particu-
larly by the international banking cQmmunity. Mexico had become a model of
how to achieve a turnaround in macro-economic performance over a remarkably
short period of time, while making orderly arrangements for continued service
of its external debt. Mainly for this reason, the Government's 1984 borrow-
ing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carried much more favorable terms
than the borrowing in 1983 (10-year maturity, 5-3/4-year grace period, and a
spread of 1-1/22 over LIBOR or 1-1/82 over prime). Negotiations on the
rescheduling of nearly US$50 billion in foreign commercial debt were also
initiated.
Recent Developments
12.       Mexico's economic performance has deteriorated since late 1984.
Real growth exceeded 6% during the first half of 1985, but there were signs
of overheating in the economy. High inflation continued, the real exchange
rate appreciated, non-oil and oil export earnings declined, imports increased
by 40%, capital flight resumed, international reserves fell, real interest
rates in the free credit market rose sharply, and the private sector was
increasingly crowded out of the domestic credit market. By August, it had
become evident that Mexico would be unable to meet the ambitious targets
established in the third year of its EFF program. The 1985 fiscal deficit is
now expected to reach 9.6% of GDP, while inflation will run over 60%. Non-
oil and oil export earnings alike declined by over 10% relative to 1984. The
international price of Mexican crude oil fell from nearly US$27/barrel at the
end of 1984 to around US$25/barrel by the end of the year. These diffi-
culties have now been exacerbated by the recent quakes, which will place new
pressures on the fiscal and the balance of payments accounts, and by the
uncertain outlook for the international oil market, interest rates, and
export markets.
13.       In response to the emerging new crisis, the Government has adopted
a series of corrective fiscal, exchange rate, financial, and trade policy
measures. In February, the Government announced its intention to liquidate
or sell 237 non-strategic state enterprises. Of these, 20 have since been
sold for a total value of about USS30 million. Since early March, time
deposit interest rates have been raised in stages from an average of about
45Z to nearly 65% in December. On July 24, the Government announced the
removal of prior import licensing restrictions on items representing around
40% of 1984 imports. As a result, the level of imports subject to
quantitative restrictions (QRs) fell to the lowest level in a quarter
century. The controlled peso was simultaneously devalued by 17% and shifted
from a fixed to a variable crawling peg. To reduce current expenditures,
thousands of civil servants were dismissed, and a number of Government
departments abolished. In November, the Government reopened discussions with
the GATT with a view to consider membership. This is a development of
considerable political significance; membership would greatly enhance further
movement towards trade liberalization.



14.       Notwithstanding these initial steps, further strong measures are
needed during 1986, as there is evidence of a continuing high public sector
deficit, a widely fluctuating differential between the official and parallel
exchange rates, and financial market disintermediation. There is concern
that the higher-than-planned inflation rate, the fluctuating gap between the
controlled and the parallel exchange rates (10% in late January 1986), and
the slow progress of the Government's fiscal and trade reforms over the past
18 months have hurt Mexico's non-oil export performance and confidence in the
prospects for recovery from the crisis. The Government recently decided to
negotiate a new economic program with the IMF for 1986 and the 1986 budget is
aimed at cutting the fiscal deficit from 9.6% of GDP in 1985 to 4.9% of GDP.
This adjustment is to come mainly from an increase in public sector revenues
(equivalent to 1.5% of GDP) and a decrease in programmable expenditures
(equivalent to 2.4% of GDP).
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the
years ahead include the heavy burden of service on the debt, both internal
and external, an oversized public sector which is in need of streamlining,
the still high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for 1983) together
with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under 4%), slow
growth in agriculture, widespread poverty, a highly skewed interpersonal and
interregional income distribution, an overly oil-dependent economy with a
strong anti-export bias, and a relatively inefficient manufacturing sector.
16.       The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focusses on the need
for structural changes in the economy, including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through
basic needs policies and an improvement in labor absorption, and the regional
decentralization of economic activity.
17.       Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic
growth are reasonably good, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing
its structural adjustment policies, private sector confidence is restored,
and the internatioaal eavironment remains reasonably favorable. Adequate
domestic policies include inter alia renewed efforts to reduce the fiscal
deficit, to reduce effective import protection (largely unaffected by the
recent removal of ORs), to ease domestic interest rate and credit controls,
and to maintain a realistic exchange rate, preferably through largely
automatic adjustment mechanisms. Restoration of private sector confidence is
crucial, since only a strong and dynamic private sector will be able t. raise
investment and production from the present depressed levels and to supply the
increasing non-oil export surplus required for the resumption of growth and
the maintenance of sound balance of payments prospects.
18.       As regards the external environment, foreign commercial banks
should be willing to maintain their presence in Mexico to meet the country's
v1



- 6 -
fundamental liquidity needs, and foreign markets must be open to Mexico's
non-oil exports. If interest rates on world financial markets continue their
decline, Mexico will benefit substantially, while she will lose export
revenue if oil prices continue to deteriorate. A one percentage point drop
means a savings of about US$800 million in overall interest payments,
compared to a loss of US$550 million in gross export revenues resulting from
every US$1/barrel decline in the export price of oil.
19.       A rescheduling agreement covering US$29 billion of Government debt
was signed in March 1985, following approval by the IMF of the terms of a
third-year EFF. The rescheduling agreement concerning the balance of US$19
billion in loans to Mexican Government agencies was signed in August 1985.
These agreements provide that previously unrescheduled debt due for repayment
in 1985-90 (amounting to about US$20 billion) will have its maturities
extended to 14 years. The maturities of previously rescheduled debt due in
1987-90 will be stretched over 11 years. The 1983 syndicated loan of US$5
billion will be restructured to carry terms identical to the 1984 syndicated
loan. In summary, the rescheduling agreement stretches maturities of US$48
billion of public debt in such a way that gross amortization of the debt
remains virtually constant between 1985-98, in contrast to the prior situa-
tion where 75% of the debt service would have fallen due in 1986-89. The
banks have the choice of the London Interbank Offer Rate, a domestic refer-
ence rate, or a fixed rate. These terms are based on the understanding that
the Government will continue to adhere to prudent economic policies.
20.       Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions,
Mexico's economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5% a year-somewhat
below the post-World War II average for Mexico of 6% annually-toward the
late 1980s. However, should a more outward-oriented growth pattern compris-
ing fiscal discipline, improved domestic efficiency, and non-oil export
development fail to materialize, Mexico could enter into a period of
prolonged stagnation, characterized by insufficient labor absorption,
domestic price distortions, and continued balance of payments difficulties.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
21.       Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$4
billion during 1983, and by about half as much in 1984 to US$94.4 billion.
It is expected to remain roughly unchanged in 1985. Net new borrowing is
expected to average some US$3-4 billion each year during the remainder of the
decade. Assuming that the Government promptly adopts policy adjustments, as
needed, and that oil prices do not fall substantially below USS20/barrel, the
ratio of external debt to GDP should decline steadily from 55% in 1984 to
around 50% by 1990. The debt servlce ratio after rescheduling is projected
to decline slowly from the 1985 level of 62% to about 52% in 1990. Mexico's
net foreign borrowing needs for 1986 are estimated by the Government at
around US$4.0 billion of which US$2.5 billion is expected to come from com-
mercial banks.
22.       At the end of 1984, the last year for which a comprehensive exter-
nal debt report is available, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was 4.8%



(excluding undisbursed). The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4.5%. As a result of commercial
bank debt rescheduling, this share is expected to rise to as high as 7% by
1990. The Bank's exposure in Mexico as of end-September 1985 amounted to
7.6% of its total. In view of the good medium- and long-term potential of
its economy, and in the expectation that sound economic policies will be
pursued in the future, Mexico is considered creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
23.       As of September 30, 1985, Mexico had received 91 loans from the
Bank, amounting to USS7.72 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 59 loans totalling US$3.6 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$6.1 billion, of which US$2.4 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 40%
of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20% for
industry, 9% for power, and 18% for transportation; the remaining 13% has
been for water supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1985.
24.       Of the US$7.72 billion total lending, about USS4.7 billion was for
establishing or streagthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises.
25.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused on project monitoring. As a result of these measures,
most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily
until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78, to US$448
million in FY82. However, the 1982 financial crisis again caused delays in
the provision of counterpart fuads; consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established
in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding
constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, dis-
bursements during FY84 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35%
over disbursements in 1983. The FY85 disbursement figure is US$787.93
million, 49% over 1984 or 100% over projected. A reconstruction loan is also
being appraised to respond to the needs of the September 1985 earthquakes.
The proposed loan will be multi-sectoral and will cover all aspects of the
overall reconstruction program. In addition, ongoing loans will be adjusted
to address reconstruction needs.



-8-
IFC Operations
26.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$572.8 mil-
lion had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC invest-
ments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank
in preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign
exchange financing to private sector companies, for the importation of
machinery, equipment, and spare parts required for production of exportable
products, for efficient import substitution, and for improvements in the
utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100
million facility (including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in
1983, which is providing finance for fixed investmerts of a larger size than
those assisted under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
27.       The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were
to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of ecoaomic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis, and
a reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded
that: (a) increased Bank lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be
linked to central policy reforms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role
in assisting Mexico's return to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for
this new role, the Bank has intensified and broadened its economic and sector
work. Specific policy reforms that are presently being pursued through a
dialogue with the Mexican Government cover priority macro-economic and
cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberalization, rationalization of
preferential credit systems, improvement in public sector pricing and invest-
ment and subsidy reduction. Traditioaal lending incorporating project- or
sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in parallel with policy
dialogue on cross-sectoral or macropolicy issues.
28.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for
its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at (a) a
more efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase production;
(b) productivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the
productivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment - generating
investments in rural areas. To support these goals, infrastructure invest-
ments in Bank-assisted projects have been complemented with support services,
such as extension, marketing programs and credit. The Bank has made 10 loans
in FYs8O-85 totalling US$1,566.0 million for irrigation, rural and agricul-
tural investment projects, and agro-industrial and livestock credit pro-
grams. Projects for irrigation, rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication, forestry, agro-industries and agricultural credit are in
various stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent
years on the development of rainfed areas.



- 9 -
29.       Bank lending for industry aims at:  (a) improving competitiveness
and export growth in selected industrial subsectors; (b) decentralizing
Industrial activities away from the major, increasingly congested, urban
areas; and (c) promoting greater employment. Between FYs8O-85, seven loans
amounting to US$947.30 million were approved in the areas of small- and
medium-scale industry, mining, vocational training, development of capital
goods industries, and promotion of exports. In response to the current needs
of the industrial sector, several projects to support non-oil export develop-
ment, acquisition of modern technology, financial restructuring of enter-
prises, and industrial recovery and growth are in various stages of prepara-
tion. A Trade Development Policy Loan (DPL) is now being appraised aiming at
supporting the trade liberalization process, assisting in the recovery of
sustainable economic growth and facilitating the mobilization of commercial
bank funds to cover part of the external financing needs for 1986.
30.       Bank lending for transport has focused on regional development,
strengthening of institutions and rationalization of public investment out-
lays and pricing policies. Between FYsBO-85 six loans amounting to US$753.75
million were approved including two in each of the following three sub-
sectors: highways, railways and ports. Additional projects to support the
above goals were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYs80-85 four loans
were approved in the urban sector, totalling US$408.5 ~aillion in the fields
of water supply and sewerage and urban development.  Additional projets are
under consideration in the transport and urban sectors aiming at strengthen-
ing the various institutions in the areas of planning, management, and
finance. These upcoming projects would further support the Government's
decentralization objectives.
31.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico
through various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and
institutional reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/
seminars on water supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy,
agricultural policy, industrial development and finance, and macro-policy
analysis.
32.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.4 billion as of September 30, 1985. Over 50% of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans
for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural
and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and
hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development
project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and
for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the
loan.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
33.       Mexico's agricultural sector contributes some 10% of the gross
domestic product, employs about one-third of the country's active labor
force, and contributes approximately 6Z to the country's exports. During the
decade of the 1970s agriculture's rate of growth declined significantly to
average 3X per annum as terms of trade turned against agriculture. Also,
agriculture's share of exports dropped dramatically and imports sharply
increased, and as a result sectoral policies came under review. Agricultural
production again increased in both 1980 and 1981 at an annual rate of about
6.5% at least in part because of a deliberate policy of increasing subsidies
on basic products and inputs under the Government-sponsored Mexican Food
Program (SAM). However, SAM proved too costly, and in 1982, when prices were
allowed to lag behind the high inflation rate of that year, the value of
production experienced a 0.4% negative growth rate.
Present Agricultural Policy
34.       At the end of 1982, when the current Government took office, there
was an urgent need to reassess and reorient agricultural development poli-
cies. After substantial devaluations, domestic farr-gate prices had deterio-
rated in real terms. Strong price increases, especially for the basic comr-
modities, were required if farmers were to maintain and increase production
levels. On the other hand, in order to suppress inflation there was a need
to contain food price increases. Also, in view of high public sector defi-
cits, the Goverment's agricultural subsidy policy needed to be overhauled.
35.       The strategy which was developed and outlined in the National
Development Plan for 1983-1988, aims at accelerated agricultural growth. The
policy emphasizes the importance of agriculture in increasing Mexican exports
and guaranteeing farm prices which are consistent with international prices;
the fiscal problem was to be addressed by reducing consumer and producer
subsidies, but due to continued high inflation and reduced incomes progress
in reducing consumer subsidies has been less than expected. Controlled
producer prices for most important crops, including basic staples such as
maize and wheat, have been raised twice-yearly to compensate for inflation
since the beginning of 1983, and are currently at or close to international
levels. As a result, the average annual growth of production of basic sta-
ples has been about 5% in 1983-1984. Input subsidies have been strongly
reduced. Subsidized prices for key inputs (i.e., fertilizer and seeds) are
now only available for rainfed-maize production to small farmers holding less
than 20 ha each. Interest rates on agricultural subloans, which until
recently were fixed and generally negative in real terms, have been made
variable and are to approach positive levels gradually in accordance with a
timetable that forms part of the General Interest Rate Agreement between the



- 11 -
Government and the Bank. Continued adjustments of irrigation water rates are
being made in order to achieve operation and maintenance cost recovery under
a general strategy to improve the use and management of Mexico's water and
soil resources.
36.       The Government is also taking steps to decentralize planning,
programming and implementation of rural development projects to state and
Local levels and to improve interagency coordination. In support of these
initiatives, SARH published the 1985-1988 National Program for Integrated
Rural Development (PRONADRI) which focuses on the poorer segment of the farw-
ing population who have not traditionally received significant support.
Regional Development in the Humid Tropics
37.       Mexico's humid tropics are located primarily on the Gulf Coast and
in the southeast of the country. Within this area SARH estimates that there
are about 7.5 million ha of unutilized or underutilized land with soils of
moderate-to-good agricultural potential, primarily in the coastal plains.
The rainfall reaches 1,700 mm and falls mainly between June and September.
The high temperatures and humidity lead to serious disease, pest and weed
problems. In addition to these problems, agricultural development in the
region has been constrained by: (a) poor access for inputs and outputs;
(b) regular flooding of lowland areas; (c) high illiteracy rate; (d) competi-
tion for resources from the rapidly developing petroleum industry; and
(e) steady expansion of extensive livestock production.
38.       Despite operating at a low level of technology, the area produces a
significant proportion of the national crop output. For example, in 1980 it
produced 25% of the national maize crop, 34% of the rice, 13% of the beans,
65% of the sugar, 25% of the beef, 100% of the cacao, 50Z of the coffee, 65%
of the honey, and 252 of the forestry products.
39.       Systematic studies to determine the technical, social and adminis-
trative constraints limiting development of the lowland tropics began in
1978. These included the Bank-financed pilot Tropical Agricultural Develop-
ment Project, Loan 1553-HE (PRODERITH I). The development strategies which
resulted included: (a) increased crop production through more efficient and
rational use of aatural resources; (b) priority development of coastal plains
where low-cost supporting infrastructure could be incorporated into local
rural development schemes; (c) improvement of clean water supplies to urban
areas and reduction of upstream contamination; and (d) development of river-
based hydroelectric schemes. The 1983-1988 National Development Plan
supports these strategies and expansion of the PRODERITH approach in high
potential areas with relatively few drainage problems.
Past Experience with Bank Lending
40.       In the past ten years (FY75-85), Bank participation in the agricul-
tural sector amounted to US$2,732 million distributed among 22 projects as
follows:



- 12 -
(a) Irrigation: (Panuco 969-ME), Sinaloa I (970-ME), Rio Fuerte/Sinalos
II (1706-ME), Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan I (1111-ME),
Apatzingan (1858-ME), Ocoroni (1908-ME), and Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo
Rio San Juan II (2100-ME) - US$539 million;
(b)   Integrated Program for Rural Development PIDER I (1110-NE). II
(1462-NE), and III (2043-ME) and Papaloapan Basin (1053-ME) -
US$431 million;
(c)   Rainfed Agriculture: PLANAT (1945-ME) and San Fernando (2191-ME) -
US$311 million;
(d)   Agricultural Marketing: FIDEC (2262-ME) - US$115 million;
(e)   Agricultural Credit: FIRA V (1217-ME), VI (1569-ME), VII (1891-ME),
VIII (2454-ME), Interim (2610-ME) - USS1,130 million;
(f)   Area Development: Tropical Agriculture PRODERITH I (1553-ME) and
Chiapas Agricultural Development (2526-ME) - US$146 million; and
(g)   Small-scale Agriculture Infrastructure Development (1643-ME) -
US$60 million.
41.       During the past year, completion reports were issued on two pro-
jects: the Bajo Rio Bravo Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1111-ME)
and the PRODERITE I Project (Loan 1553-ME). In general, implementation of
ongoing projects is currently slow because of limited counterpart funds.
This slowness and the fact that the Government's financial control and
reimbursement procedures are cumbersome, had caused disbursements to lag.
The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has reduced the scope of and
cancelled loan funds for some of the ongoing projects and has reviewed the
financial control procedures and introduced some simplification. Recent
stringent stabilization measures contributed to the budgetary problems, which
further slowed down execution of ongoing projects and disbursements. How-
ever, the Bank's implementation of a Special Action Program has eased the
budgetary constraints somewhat and facilitated project implementation.
Experience of PRODERITH I
42.       The PRODERITH I Project was considered a success by the June 1985
completion report. In the six pilot areas which comprised the project, the
following overall benefits were identified: (a) the crop area was increased
by about 40,000 ha; tb) yields of basic crops rose significantly e.g.,
between 1979 and 1983 maize yields in two of the pilot areas increased about
60% compared to average rainfed district increases in the same zone of about
20%; (c) drainage infrastructure reduced waterlogging on about 100,000 ha;
(d) the level of farm family participation reached 30-50% in the pilot areas;
(e) 32 detailed local development plans were prepared in close collaboration
with the communities themselves; (f) over 950 farmer groups were established
for production, marketing and credit purposes; and (g) about 50 women's
groups were formed for small-scale agroindustrial projects such as poultry
units, sheep flocks and bakeries.



- 13 -
43.       The main reasons for the project's success were: its pilot approach
to testing development strategies, effective and stable project management,
careful local development planning, training and supervision of field staff,
high density extension coverage, and strong support from senior SARH offi-
cials. Despite the successes there were early problems most of which were
resolved during implementation, including: lack of experience with design,
construction and supervision of drainage works in the humid tropics, poor
administrative coordination with other extension agencies, inadequate moni-
toring of credit flows, and insufficient attention to marketing constraints.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement
44.       The proposed project was prepared by CPNH with assistance from Bank
missions that visited Mexico between January and April 1985. It was
appraised in June 1985, and negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., from
January 27 to 29, 1986. The Mexican delegation was headed by representatives
from NAFINSA. and included representatives from SARH and the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP).
45.       The rationale for the project stems from the largely positive
experiences of PRODERITH I whose pilot areas were chosen to be representative
of wider areas of expansion. As such they were always seen as precursors to
future investments which SARH currently describes as the phased development
of Mexico's tropical lowlands by the year 2000.  SARH has also concluded
that of the many development programs tested in the region, PRODERITH has
achieved the most success and therefore should be the model for future
investments. This is consistent with the Government's and the Bank's focus
on providing more direct productive assistance to poorer farmers in rainfed
regions which have traditionally received only limited support. Continuing
Bank involvement In the program is justified by its high priority, the need
to assist in the consolidation and further refinement of the strategies
developed under PRODERITH I, and the shortage of additional financial re-
sources needed to carry on the development program in the region.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The main project objectives would be to:
(a)   alleviate poverty by improving economic conditions of about 40,000
rural families through more efficient utilization of local re-
sources and provision of improved infrastructure and services;
(b)   expand the rational exploitation of Mexico's tropical lowlands
using technical, administrative and organizational measures
successfully tested under PRODERITH I;
(c)   increase agricultural productivity and production; and
(d)   strengthen agricultural institutions, and promote greater producer
involvement in operation and maintenance of infrastructure.



- 14 -
The project would draw heavily on the experience of the first phase project
and has been designed in accordance with the Government's 1983-1988 National
Development Plan and 1985-1988 PRONADRI objectives.
47.       The project would comprise eight subareas.  Four would be expansion
areas of PRODERITH I pilot projects (Pujal Coy II in Panuco, Centro de Vera
Cruz in Vera Cruz, Zanapa-Tonala in Tabasco, and Oriente de Yucatan in
Yucatan) (Map, IBRD 19197) and one would reestablish the pilot project which
was cancelled in 1983 but now appears to warrant renewed support (Tesechoacan
in Vera Cruz).'/ The remaining areas would be new pilot projects to be
selected from a list to be studied in the first two years of project imple-
mentation.  During negotiations, Government provided assurances that it would
complete the feasibility studies of the new pilot areas for Bank review,
approval and selection by December 31, 1987.
48.       Project components would include:
(a)   infrastructure construction in the subproject and pilot areas as
follows: (i) about 1,500 km of farm service roads to improve access
for inputs and marketing of outputs, about 700 km of which would be
adjacent to drains; (ii) about 700 km of primary, secondary, and
tertiary drains to remove excess surface water and lower water
tables; (iii) about 1,400 supporting structures such as culverts,
fords, and bridges; and (iv) general civil works including about
109,000 tons of iaput storage, about 20 silos, about eight heavy
equipment repair and maintenance facilities, and two office
complexes for field staff;
(b)   on-farm land treatment as follows: (i) about 36,000 ha of field
drains, ditches, and land smoothing; (ii) about 47,500 ha of soil
conservation systems involving contour farming, terracing, grassed
waterways, windbreaks, and conservation tillage; and (iii) about
60,000 ha of mechanical clearing and major land smoothing;
Cc)   purchase of heavy equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance of infrastructure (about 120 units) and vehicles for
construction and production operations;
(d)   streagthening of agricultural extension, farmer organizations and
agricultural research serving about 40,000 families on a net area
of about 850,000 ha of potentially productive land (794,000 ha in
the five subproject areas and 56,000 ha in the three new pilot
areas) within a gross geographic area of about 1.2 million ha.
Main investments for extension personnel would include purchase of
about 180 vehicles and 180 motorcycles. Main investments in
research would include minor works to complete facilities begun
under PRODERITH I, purchase of laboratory and mass media equipment
and vehicles, and support of about 195 man-years of research for
the extension program;
1/ The sixth of the PRODERITH I pilot areas is included for expansion under
the Bank-financed Chiapas Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 2526-ME).



- 15 -
(e)   training in techniques of integrated rural development, rural
communications, producer organization, self management schemes
(e.g., operation and maintenance of infrastructure), drainage and
soil conservation, and production systems-oriented methodology in
crop, livestock, and forestry production. Four types of training
would be offered: formal (480 man-months), in-service (480 man-
months), new staff (600 man-months) and for producers (1,500 man-
months);
(f) studies as follows: (i) complementary studies on the subproject
areas; (ii) detailed studies on the five new pilot areas from which
three would be selected after Bank review for financing; and
(iii) marketing studies for the products to be produced in the
subproject areas; and
(g)   fifteen man-years of consultancies including 8.0 man-years of
expatriate technical assistance in soil conservation and 5.5 man-
years in mass media communications. These would extend two
effective ongoing programs (USDA Soil Conservation Service and
FAO) established under PRODERITH I. The balance of 1.5 man-years
would be for short-term local or expatriate consultancies to
resolve specific technical issues as they may arise during
implementation.
Project Execution
49.       Despite a reorganization of SARH in August 1985, responsibilities
for project management would continue largely along the lines successfully
established under PRODERITH I. CPNH through its Project Coordinating Unit
(PRODERITH) would be responsible for overall project coordination, monitoring
and supervision. The executive secretary of CPNH would continue to chair the
Technical Committee, which would comprise all executing agencies plus the
National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL), the Agricultural Trust Fund (FIRA),
the National Insurance Company (ANAGSA), the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (SHCP) and SPP. During negotiations, Government provided
assurances that CPNH would continue to act as project coordinator and that
the Technical Committee would be maintained. Furthermore, in order to ensure
that adequate investment and production credit would be made available from
existing sources, Government also provided assurances that the existing
agreement on supply, coordination and supervision of credit established under
PRODERITH I would be extended to cover the area and implementation period of
the project. A Bank mission visited Mexico in December 1985 to appraise a
Mexico: Agricultural Credit Fira/Ficart Project which will help ensure the
supply of credit to the project area.
50.       Day-to-day execution of the infrastructure and civil works activi-
ties would be the responsibility of the General Directorate of Irrigation and
Drainage (DGID). Civil works designs for the first year's work program have.
been prepared and tendering would begin before Board presentation. Research



- 16 -
would be executed by the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and
Livestock Research (INIFAP) and extension services by separate Regional
Centers for Rural Development (RCRD) within SARH's Rural Development Dis-
tricts (RDD). PRODERITH field offices would operate as separate RCRD and
subproject and pilot area chiefs would report directly to the RDD chiefs
thereby ensuring effective integration with SARH's existing extension infra-
structure. However, the project would require PRODERITH field staff to do
additioaal work not covered under existing RCRD job descriptions, such as
preparation of local development plans and monitoring and evaluation of the
project. Consequently, SPP and SARH would identify certain staff positions
as 'special posts" to ensure that salary levels adequately compensate staff
for this additional work. This review is underway. Extension services would
increase direct support to farmer groups and enterprises with the long-term
goal not only of increasing production and farmer income but also of recover-
ing at least part of the cost from the groups themselves. Training programs
which have already been planned in detail would be provided by PRODERITH with
assistance from the Chapingo Graduate University's extension training center
near Vera Cruz (CRECIDATH).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total project cost is estimated at US$217.5 million excluding
taxes and duties. Foreign exchange is estimated at US$66.1 million or 30% of
total costs. The base cost is estimated at US$178.1 million based on
December 1985 costs. In view of the wide divergence between international
and local inflation rates, all cost tables and financial projections are
presented in US dollars. Physical contingencies (5% of base costs) have been
estimated at the rate of 10% on infrastructure and civil works only. Price
contingencies (17% of base costs) have beer estimated at 7.0% for 1986, 7.0%
for 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, 4.5% for 1991 and 4.5Z
for 1992, and have been applied to all components except salaries. No price
contingencies have been applied to the US dollar equivalent value of salaries
since the Government's stated objective is to keep public sector operating
expenditures controlled; between 1982 and 1984 real wages actually fell about
30%. Consequeatly, real US dollar increases in salaries over the project
period are unlikely. The proposed Bank loan of US$109.0 million would
finance 50% of total costs net of taxes and duties, which is equivalent to
100% of foreign exchange costs (US$66.1 million) plus 28% of local costs
(US$42.9 million). Bank financing of local costs is justified in view of
stringent stabilization measures undertaken by the Government in its efforts
to reduce the deficit, the high poverty level of the project beneficiaries
and the relatively small foreign exchange component of the project (30% of
total costs). The Government would provide the balance of 50% of project
costs which would be equivalent to 72% of local costs. The project would
require about 180 man-months of consultant services.
Special Account
52.       To expedite project implementation, a Special Account would be
established in NAFINSA. Up to US$7.0 million would be deposited by the



- 17 -
Bank in the Special Account, which is equivalent to about four months of peak
loan requirements. The Special Account would he replenished through the
normal reimbursement of project expenditures.
Procurement
53.       There would be no international competitive bidding (ICB) on Infra-
structure and civil works, estimated to cost about US$105 million, due to the
relatively small and dispersed nature of works. However, it is proposed
(except as the Bank shall otherwise agree during implementation) to package
all roads and road drain combinations (about US$23.0 million or about 22% of
all works under the project) in contracts of not less than US$0.5 milliou
equivalent for procurement through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
in accordance with Bank guidelines. For any civil works over US$1.5 million,
the Bank's prior approval would be required before contracts were awarded.
During negotiations, Government provided assurances that it would agree with
the Bank on bidding procedures for all contracts awarded under the project.
54.       Equipment for operation and maintenance of works and laboratory
equipment for research estimated to cost about US$11 million, would be
procured under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualified
domestic manufacturers for the supply of equipment, goods and materials would
receive a margin of preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever is the
lower. The balance of equipment, vehicles, goods, and material contracts
which would comprise large numbers of small items in individual contracts
under US$150,000 equivalent (US$5.0 million) would be procured according to
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For any goods
over US$250,000, the Bank's prior approval would be required before contracts
were awarded. Consultants for soil conservation and mass media communiLa-
tions would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotia-
tions, Government provided assurances that it would follow the procurement
procedures outlined in paras 53 and 54.
Table 1 - Procurement Arrangements aJ
Project Element              ICB       LCB       Other       Total Cost
-USS Million-
Civil Works                    -        102          3  bJ       105
(71)       (2)          (73)
Equipment                     11          5          -            16
(9)        (4)        -            (13)
Services                       -          -         96            96
_          -        (23)          (23)
Total                     11        107         99           217
(9)       (75)      (25)          (109)
a/ Values in parenthesis reflect amount financed by Bank.
5/ Quotations, direct contracting or force account for contracts up to
US$50,000 equivalent.



- 18 -
Disbursements
55.       The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over an
eight-year period, which is based on the profile for similar agricultural
projects ia Mexico. The proposed loan would be disbursed mainly against
normal documentation. Purchase of small items and contracts of less than
US$20,000 would be grouped together as far as practical and disbursements
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements for contracts
for buildings and other works costing less than US$150,000 would also be made
against SOEs. All contracts and supporting documents for SOE would be re-
tained by the executing agency for review by the Bank as required and would
be audited (para. 56).  Recurrent expenditures would be financed on a declin-
ing basis as follows: year 1, 30%; year 2, 20%; year 3, 10%; years 4 and 5,
5x; thereafter 0%. The project provides for retroactive financing on infra-
structure and purchase of laboratory equipment, not to exceed US$4.0 million
for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1985. This would facilitate the
implementation of approved infrastructure and continue the research work
established under PRODERITH I. Project completion is estimated at June 30,
1993.
Accounting and Audets
56.       Prior to submission to the Bank, all documentation, including SOEs
would be subject to the independent review and approval of SPP in accordance
with its established control procedures. SARH would maintain separate
accounts on the project. An audit satisfactory to the Bank would be made of
the accounts and SOEs. Certified copies of these statements would be submit-
ted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year. The Borrower would also furnish to the Bank any other pertinent
information concerning these accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request
from time to time.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Progress Reporting
57.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Group established under the first
project in the PRODERITE project unit in CPNH would continue to operate under
the p-;oposed project. It would monitor progress on project impact and the
status of agricultural development, infrastructure works, research and exten-
oion, training and credit activities in the project area. It would analyze
beneficiary acceptance and response to the development investments in terms
of poverty alleviation, changes in production systems, as well as the pro-
ject's environmental and sociological impact. Control areas would be
established in similar agroeconomic areas to permit a valid impact analysis
to be made. An additional responsibility of the Group would be to monitor,
collect, process and analyze information on advances in research, their
relation to the technical assistance offered and the extent to which the
Xecommendations generated by the research centers are appropriate in support-
ing production at farm level.
58.       The Group's findixgs would be taken into consideration in the
preparation of each year's work program and budget for the project and would



- 19 -
assist project management in identifying the problems and constraints so that
they could be acted upon in a timely manner. Analysis of adoption rates of
technical packages would also permit management to continually update the
design and content of its extension services. The Group would also prepare
an annual progress report and final completion report for Bank review, using
a similar format to that developed under PRODERITH I.
Financial and Economic Justification
59.       The project would remove constraints to agricultural development in
the five subproject areas through drainage and road development. In addi-
tion, by encouraging the adoption of improved production practices, it would
raise agricultural incomes and welfare of about 40,000 rural families, the
majority of whom are in the low income target group. The area under rainfed
cropping would increase by about 143,000 ha primarily at the expense of
extensive livestock production. Although a wide range of crop and livestock
activities are possible in the lowland tropics, the project is expected to
have the greatest impact on the following at full development in Year 16:
annual maize production would increase about 101,000 tons, beans about 22,000
tons, sorghum about 210,000 tons, soya about 60,000 tons, rice about 14,000
tons, fruits about 219,000 tons and vegetables about 18,000 tons. Annual
output of livestock products resulting primarily from increased productivity
per hectare would increase by about 57 million liters of milk and 25,000 tons
for meat. This incremental production of major crops would make a signifi-
cant contribution to import-substitution (food grains and pulses, feed grains
and oilseeds) as well as modest contributions to exports (cacao and poten-
tially fruit and vegetables).  The incremental value of production at con-
stant 1985 prices of major crops is estimated at about US$100 million per
year. Typical farm family incomes are expected to increase significantly.
For example, an ejidatario with 7 ha of mixed annual and perennial crops is
estimated to increase his annual family income from current levels of about
US$1,300 to about USS4,300 by full development.
60.       The internal economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is
estimated at 23.3% and is based on the incremental value of crop and live-
stock production over a 20-year period. Secondary benefits from drains and
roads such as reduced flooding in urban areas and improved access to markets
have not been included although they are likely to be considerable. The
projected changes in land use and cropping patterns follow closely the
investments in basic infrastructure and provision of services. Economic
prices for traded commodities were derived from medium- and long-term Bank
projections adjusted for handling, transport, and, where appropriate,
processing. The calculation includes the costs of three proposed pilot
areas, but no benefits from these areas have been included. Sensitivity
analyses indicate that an increase in total project costs of 20% would reduce
the ERR to 19% and a decrease in project benefits of 20% would reduce it to
18.2%. The combined effect of these two seasitivity tests would reduce the
ERR to 14.5X, and a delay of three years in achieving project benefits would
also reduce the ERR to 14.5%. Switching value tests have been calculated at
three levels of opportunity cost of capital (11%, 15% and 20%), all of which
support the project investment. Thus, the economic viability of the project
is robust in the context of likely alternative scenarios.



- 20 -
Recovery of Operation and Maintenance Costs
61.       The two approaches to operation and maintenance of infrastructure
(O&M) agreed by SARi at appraisal are defined according to whether they are
large works or small local works. The first refers to larger works which
would benefit many communities (roads, drains and large structures). For
these SARi would enter into agreements with local organizations such as
multi-ejido unions to provide paid labor to maintain the works. However,
responsibility for this O&M would remain with DGID. The second approach
would introduce an innovation which it is hoped will ultimately lead to
larger scale recovery of O&M costs of certain infrastructure over a wide area
even outside the project. For these smaller works which would benefit
individual communities (access roads and secondary, tertiary and field
drains), SARH would train local groups to carry out the maintenance them-
selves. Beginning on an experimental basis on 40,000 ha in the Pujal Coy II
subproject area, SARH would establish small funds to cover the costs of
materials such as seed for grassing of drains and gravel for access roads.
Start-up money for these funds would be provided by the project but over time
(about four years for each group) community contributions would gradually
take over responsibility for the fund's operation. During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that these funds would be established on a
pilot basis.
Marketing
62.       Incremental production generated by the project would be marketed
primarily in the local area of the coastal plains where considerable deficits
in supply of major crops and livestock products exist. The production
increase in basic fooderops, feedgrains and oilseeds (maize, beans, rice,
sorghum, soya, sesame and safflower) would also help offset Mexico's imports
in these categories. Incremental fruit production (pineapple, mango, citrus
and papaya) would be consumed in local urban centers and to a lesser extent
by processing industries and small exporters of fresh tropical fruit. The
projected increase in sugar production which is equivalent to only 2.12 of
Mexico's 1984/85 national output, would be consumed locally. Incremental
milk and meat production resulting from increased productivity on a reduced
pasture area would also be consumed locally. Despite imperfections, existing
marketing systems are considered capable of handling the project's incre-
mental output. In basic crops, the project's construction program would also
help reduce problems of collection and storage. The project would also
continually monitor marketing requirements through the program of local
development planning and the proposed overall marketing study for the region
to be carried out early in project implementation and updated on a regular
basis.
Environmental Impact
63.       Measures would be taken to protect the environment.  Civil works,
in particular the drainage system, would be designed to: (a) utilize sediment



- 21 -
traps to minimize soil particles from being carried into the permanent wet-
lands and lagoons; (b) control the run-off of agricultural fertilizer and
chemicals; and (c) maintain a depth and flow of water in the drains to reduce
the possibility of establishing breeding areas for mosquitos and water-
spawned insects. SARH has already initiated environmental impact studies in
accordance with current legislation. Research would be conducted to deter-
mine fertilizer and chemical application rates and methods compatible with
obtaining optimum yields while protecting the environment from chemical
contamination. The extension services would advise farmers on the safe and
proper application and use of fertilizers, chemicals and cultural practices
required to protect the user and the environment. This would also include
the recommendation not to use dangerous chemicals in compliance with Bank
Guidelines on the Selection and Use of Pesticides. Cultural practices would
include soil conservation measures, such as terracing, contour cultivation,
windbreaks and incorporation of crop residue into the soil. These practices
would conserve soil and moisture and reduce run-off of water and soil
particles that would otherwise carry fertilizers and chemicals to areas where
they could cause detrimental effects. Furthermore, the Government is plan-
ning to set aside by law an ecological reserve in the Pujal Coy II subproject
area equivalent to 16Z (44,000 ha) of the productive area.
Sociological Impact
64.       With respect to sociological impact, the project would have a major
impact on reducing rural poverty and would also improve the economic status
of women in rural areas (paras. 42 and 59). Furthermore, the experience of
PRODERITH I has produced a method of analyzing the social environment through
the elaboration of local development plans. The project is also designed to
focus on ejidos and small-holders, who are most likely to take advantage of
drainage and flood control to intensify crop production and convert grazing
land to crop production. Thus, the project would have a positive impact on
the socioeconomic balance within its areas of influence. In addition, it
would increase employment by about 6.7 million man-days per year, equivalent
to about 25,800 full-time jobs, in the areas of intensified crop and live-
stock production, as well as substantial part-time employment for weed
control, harvesting and operation and maintenance of infrastructure. This
would reduce the need for the unemployed and underemployed to migrate to
other areas seeking opportunities for jobs.
Project Risks
65.       The main risks would include (a) shortage of counterpart funds and
(b) problems of institutional coordination. Although the project has been
given priority status, the shortage of counterpart funds 's unlikely to be
completely alleviated. However, partial Bank financing of local costs should
help ease the situation and SPP and SARH have already agreed on 1986 (year 1)
budget levels close to projections proposed at appraisal. Problems of
institutional coordination should also be reduced by the federal and state
level coordination mechanisms already established under the first phase
project.



- 22 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recoumend that it be approved by the
Executive Directors.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 7, 1986



AN=EX I
-23 -                                          *e1of 6
T * L | 34
ma (i~~~~~~a    p.06)naIn
W T.3.2    976.4      PM
a cma (UP0                         ..3 240.0                              11173.9                  2144.3
-           'R- an ma CAn
CK:LOIU*3  ci o UIUIwVM.U)        529.0      773.0      1340.0              MA3.                    11i.6
PWULAXIONXab-MIR (U003433)  37073.0    51176.0    73011.0
GREW ICiUATIW  (2 OF TOTAL)        30.8       ".           6.7               67.7        w_
PO3ULATIOU =3 TE  2000 (NILL)                          10,.e
STATZOMUAE POPULAUIU (KULL)                            199.0
to UTIA0  62U970                                         1.3                 . 
FOFULAUX  IIU
map in  a.                       16.6        25.11      311.0              U.0                      I.
MSQ. KM. AGRI, LASN              37.7        52.4       74.7               91.1                    16.9
WuL.TOII An X113 3 (a)
0-14 Yu                         45.         "A.        43.4               Ms                       3i.Z
15-64 YU1                        s1.0       49.9        53.1               37.1                     61.5
q-n AmOl.                         3.3         3.5        3.4                4.2                      7a.
NoWOLATom GUU "sw (X)
TOTL                              3.0         3.2        2.3                2.4                      15
gua                               4.a         6.7        4.1                3.6                      3.7
CGiDE KM1 on1 cm  IS)              43.4        43.4       34.0               30.9                     23.4
CM  MM   lI (M  sOs)               12.2        3.7         6.9                6.0           e.3
CGu  IDOUC!I0U mu                   3.3         3.2        2.2                2.0      *               a.s
FAN*PMLAII
ACCFeu.  NAL (S6)                  ..        25.1     1145.0 /A
gnu  n or 5         P )           ..          ..        39.0               4 41.3
DOa or yo  MD. Wa cAPT
(19W71-100)                        97.0       100.0      100.0              103.6                    103.1
PM CrAf   UP=  Ol
CALON CX    UAGINIuNTU)          114.0      114.0      129.0              113.2                    131.3
VEOTEI  (CUI pU on)              6".0        67.0       77.0               ".4                      93.4
O 1m1i AN2WL 9U NLE              29.0       V7.0        m.0 I             34.2                     343
CGILD C(AM  1-4) Dam   nATZ        1o.7        7.3         3.0               4.o                       4.7
lg OMr AZ KT   (lEADS)            57.0       61.3        Os.A               64.                      67.2
ISNsAT MM. NTE CM  Ia)             93.0       74.0        52.0               59.7                     53.3
ACCES 2TO 1   MU (7PTO)
TOmL                             23.5        49.0 A     3.0                45.3                     70.2
gumEj                             ,,         66.5        L 61.4            79.5                     6V4
RURAL                             ..         21.0 7     51.0               44.2                     57.0
ACCESS To iacirA DISPoSAL
CZ OW POFULATIOU)
TOTAL                              .         370        36.65.3                                     59.0
GlEN                               .         60.00      1 560.1            73.4                     03.3
EMURL                              ..         .0        13.0               25.3                    '47.4
TOPULaIZO  FEE FusICIA           1630.0      1510.0        ..1903.7                                 1070.6
tou. In  Paz ORSuONu             3630.0      X390.O        .                606.2                    769.3
pOP. Pa fotra. Em
TOTAL                            190.0      970.0        ..36.0                                    326.3
633am                           570.0j   1170.0          ..422.0                                   201.9
ERAL                              .        1370.0        ..2716.7                                 4513.7
hfhIiZOUM  PM OISfTAL Bo.....                                                27.5                     20.0
TOTAL                             5.4         5.7         ..
gum3*                             5.7         5.7
MUAL                              5.2         Si
AvgRADE M. OF fl3oUSIEOO
TOtAL.                            2.          2.
113*                              2.6         22
RURAL.                            3.4         3.2
*tSFWAGS OF D11)Uu       VTW U=.
TOM                                ..       536.9
oam    wR  r a                  UZe.Q      10.7
IJM..                             ..        . 27.8   .0



-24 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A  L L    3A,
NEX1~~~~ SOC~IA NDICATORS D*ATAEE
116NlWlREFNENO GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENAE) 
mmST                      (MsUT ICMNT IbTIIIATE) /b
SCUIOT jIDDI               CO DI0M11      Him"  Luc
19bk        197O./k  ZSTDT           LAT. AI.XCA & CR              ERWOPE
ADJUSTED ENR0LLN1iT lATtOS
FRtIARY:  TOTAL                    30.0       104.0       121.0              106.7                     101.9
HALE                    32.0       106.0       123.0              108.5                     106.2
FEMALE                  77.0       102.0       119.0              104.6                      97.5
SECONDPAIT  TOTAL                  11.0        22.0        54.0               ".2                       57.5
HALE                    14.0        26.0        54.0               42.7                      b4.9
nKEa                     3.0        17.0        49.0               ".9                       50.0
VOCATIONAL CZ OF S!ECIIIITU)         23.6        26.7        11.6               13.3                      21.0
PUPIL-TEACHR &ATMO
P314E                              44.0        46.0        37.0               29.9                      25.1
SECONDARY                          13.0        14.0        13.0               16.7                      19.1
m
PASSEGR C STHOUlsuD  0PM             12.9        24.1        61.3 .L            46.0                      54.2
uDIO  ccmsIVEITEOOSID POt            89.0       273.7       291.3              32U.3                     170.7
TV UCEIVERBUtVOSAO POP               17.5        58.5       109.4              112.4                     149.3
NESFAPR t"ALY CENEAUL
INEREST) c1alLATION
PER TmUSAND POPULTION               73.3         ..        139.7               01.1                      97.0
CiNE    ANNUAL A3rCDmNICzfCklTA       9.8         4.9         3.8 JL             2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LANOR FOxcR  (SiUS)         11191.0    14722.0    22196.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        17.4        20.5               23.6                      36.3
ACRICULTUlt (PElRONT)              55.1        45.2        35.6 JS            31.4                      40.5
INDISTRT (PZRcENT)                 19.5        22.9        25.8 1             24.3                      23.3
PARTICiPArxON RATE (PzRCET)
TOTAL                              30.2        23.8        29.6               33.5                      43.1
WALE                               51.1        47.4        46.8               51.3                      55.1
rNHALE                              9.2        10.1        11.9               15.9                      31.4
ECONHC D6PlOUNCE RUM                  1.6         1.7         1.6                1.3                       0.9
-i r3 stillfr
PERcmt OF PRIVA2E DCOH
RECEIVED U!
HONs  Sor IOrWSEOLDS                ..          ..
HRICSr 205 OF HODSEUDLDS           61.1 fh     60.7        57.7 Ib
LOwEST 202 OF USEOLDS              3.4 7Th     3.3         2.97i
LwIZST 402 0o  NUSEEOlDS            9.8 Th      9.9        9.9k 7i 
ESTIMATED  *501        POVERT  IINCON6
LEVL CUSS PR C       )
RURL                                ..                                       L 85 1835.
ESrIMATE RELATIVE POVElTY INCOME
LEVL (USS PMl CAPITA)
RUlm                                ..          *-        471.0              519.8
RUMAL                               ..          ..        471.0 7            359.7
ESTIMAED POP. NUOWi ASSOLUTW
POIrmY  ImE LIVL (2)
WUJt                                ..          ..          .                   ..
RURAL 
NOT AVAILAIL
NOT APPLICAKL
NOtES
/a   Tbh SouP  veae toeh lltn catr are pol natlan- &ted aritimeic means. Cove                   of. C oera  untrls
aq tlb lndiaton depen. aatllbity af date and Is not naif .
lb   Unless atbovIns noted. "D>a fGe 1960 rffr to Mf Year Iet en 1959 ad 1961- Data for 1970" beten
1969 &ad 1971; and data gar "Naet Recet Istimte  batwgea 1931 and 1983.
Ic  1979;  Id 1977;  1. Serwd Era wtIer supply and    ag;  /f 1962; AL 1980;  /h 1963.
JUhlE, 1935



ANNEX I
- 25-                                     Page 3 of 6
W rIIOlM  OF SOF C IND hIOS
NomAltho         dadm  dim    m    pmrlyjup t_o/antotmiw ad. eit holW alo ben6ted din hey my mm buioneratiomif
wnpznh lema f i he Ofaiidsid  slnsioe ad cue~s md b i mt cunl in colkilnath data d ThI dais am. aoasthls musf.l to
Ih   i _ug am (I) tw asm comy roup of sd subject country Ad (2) a cou_y romp with _omewha hihw aveap inoe then the country
powdporshem  etoM    (eml faqrl_b Incto OiN Upors  pop wam kMdle lncome North Arno ad Middl Es  Is cm  bMucu o_ srner
Socitual MOMu) IN lb I       poop da tb a'uu  m popuude wusag   anlnsetlc _mu for such hdwma  shown only whe njonty
aftdsrm h soow  *Idaisr durtie-rmlor. SrAm di   wag coun idaonghe _ndlmdpo.dspdon the aUllmbilty ordata and b nog uvlmf.o
cutdo mu ha marcisd m   ag        of ooelndiranodhm Thesn averiingare only useia in compawin tWh vaeof oe ndimsra a tismo.o
hecodry and r _ wOupL
AREA (thousand sq.k)                                           Cr Ade h    te (perAhned)-Nm ber oflive births in the year
T.und-Total .      s cz b        d gd    i       d w;  ~per thound of mid-year populatWO  1960.1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 ad 19U3 data.                                      Cru  Death Ate (per smN-Number of deaths in the year
I -O!4Eatc of agriculural area ud temporrily or               pe thoumi    of mid-year populai    1960,1970. and 1983 data.
perFma tly forarops. pturs  maket and kitchen pgrdens or to    Grw RepArsde   Rate-Averge number of daugbters a woman
ie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 datiL                           will bear in ber normal reproductive period if she txp
preat ageppcific arti  rate  uualy five-year averae ending
GNP PER CAPfTA (USS)-GNP per capit estmaes at cumnt            in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
warket pricea, caculad by -s   conrio  method a World         F.d  Phi-AiW- epa. A.    (thamAnu                  al num-
Barsk Adm (1961-83 basi*); 1963 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-conl devices imder auspces of national
ENERGY CONSUMFON PER CAPFE-Anumal apparnt                      fanily planing proan.
conmption of cmmecia pima  eergy (coal and lignite,            Famil Pl    q-VfJs (pmea   ofmmue         m)-Tbhe percn-
petrolum, natual ps and hydro-. nucear and geotherm l dcc-    ta  of muaried women of chd-bearing *ge who am pncticing or
tricity) in kiogams of oi equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ar patcing any form ofcontaception Women
1932 data                                                     of child-beaing age ar gmenrly women aepd 15-49. although for
some countie conbceptive ue is measured for other age
POPULATON AND VfTAL SrATISICS                                 gro8                a
Tagd hI  em  dMII , (tharmdr)-As of July 1; 1960.1970.        FOOD AND NUlrlMON
and 1963 dati
Isdez.of FoodProilsodis Per Capita (199-71 - 100)-Index of pUr
UrEw ftp.he. (p*e         ! of ta)-Ratio of urban to total    capita annual production of all fcod commodities. Production
pultion; diffierent definition of urba areas may affect compar-  xudes -mmi p1feed and seed for agicultur  Food commodities
ability of dat amonsg counnties; 1960f1970, and 1983 d        indude prinary commodities (e.g. supaafe instead of sugar)
PqdAt*ff JrcdDn                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
P.pukdon in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  zcduded) they comprise cerals. root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made ror each ecnomy sepaytely. Starting with information on  veeables fruits, nu4t sugarcne and sugr beet  livestock, and
total popuation by age  ands  fetility ates moraity rates, and  ivsock products Aggregate production of each country is basd
trnational miation in the bm  year 1980. these parameters     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wra  projected at five-year intervals on thc basis of genealized  1982 data.
amptions until the population bem    stonry.                   *rh Capi SWp  of Cdmie (pact! ureqnd'ewisin)-comput-
Saiorwy populasio&-is one in which age- and x-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talky rate have not chaed over a lng period, while age-ecific  per capita per day. Available supps cmpse domesic produc-
fertility  tes have simultoudy remained at replacement level    tion. imporu less exports. and chang  in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rte-1). In such a population the birth rate is  cxdude aninig feod, seds for use in agricultue quantties used in
constant nd equal to the deatb rate, the a  structure is also  food procesng and loSes in distribution. Requiremeuts were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologial needs for normal ativity
ie wa estmated on the basis of the projected chracteristics of  and health consideing envionmental temperature, body weights.
the populaion in the year 2000. and the rate of dece of fertility  age and sx ditribution of population, and allowing 10 percnt for
rat to replcement keveL                                       waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1962 data.
PopJbaum Momentsnm-Is the tendency for popuatio growth to     Per Ca Sita Sulf y .1 (tdei       pm' Auy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
acLeved that is, even after the net reproduction rate ha reached  as above. Requirements for a*1 countries established by USDA
unity. Tbe mom.  tum of a population in the year r is mesuned as  provide for minimum allownsom of 60 grams of total protci- per
a ratio of the uiae stionay population to the population in   day and 20 grans of animal and pube protein. of which 10 gnans
the year t. given the aumption that fility remains at replce-  should be aninal protein. These standards.are lower than dtswe of
ment led from year t onward. 1965 data.                       7S grms of total protein and 23 grans of animal protein as an
RaPOfAtL*n DA                                                 averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sg hrq -Mld-ycar population per square kometer (I 00 hec  Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 dataL
tam) of total ae; 16  1970. and 1983 data.                    Per CtAV  PWIt  SiMl TrusslAssiFi Pa**--Protein supply
Per sq.km qradtmral Amid-Computed as above for agrncultural   of food derived from animls and pulses in grms perday. 1961-6.
land only, 1960 1970Q and 1982 dati.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Apd     . Age &aildcsmr (pwcear)-C3iId= (0-91 4 yars). work-  CW  (es 1-J) Dash Raw (pfer ehmd)-Numberofdaths of
ing ae(15.64years), andrtie d (65 years andover) as pec entage  children agd 1-4 yeus per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.            group in a girm year. For most developing countries data derived
Padeu Gtih Rae             t)-t.il-Annual grwth rates of      from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year popution for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEEATH
Pydud. GCwi  R  (Riser       )-  hm-Annual growth rates       Liy Expec y at hir (ye's)-Number of yeas a newborn
of urban popultion for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing pattens of morlity for al people



-26-                                       ANNME I
Page 4 of 6
at h  imo orfits birth we  to say th .me throughout its life;  PU-teadkr Ratio - prbmay, ad scadary-Total sudents en-
1960.1970 and 19U3 data                                      told in prinay and sewndy level. divided by numbe  of
bw ANetW 3  Roto (pw Ssl d)-Number of ifanu who die           tach  in the corrpoKing lvel.
befo   aching owe yr of ag per thousan live birt  in a given
year 1960.1970 ad 19UI data.                                  CONSuMPnON
Aom to Sofa  N   (puat of                      411ntd 111j ad  Paueqe Cmr (per _n   p          .      snge  cats ccitt-
,Wd-NIDber of people (total wba  ad riral) wit  eaoable _          motor crs sCtng la s thn et pemono  exclude ambud-
-mm  to sa    er w spply (icude treaPed sface water or        tau  hearses and militay vehids
uoudbut WncIomDiUI5  waler rich a5 thnt firomt PtOtCted  Rad  RedWrs (per Avhmiaaidpaeplaoe-All tyesm of receivers
bordials tpr   and m_tilV wes) a pr0    ofir m'pa'            for radio broadcas to gener public per thousan of population;
tive Popdulion  in an uwbn am a pubic foutain or sandpot      exl  unic d    ivers in countris and in year wben
losed mot mmtt  200 ZGm frm a fra a howr moy be   _              istraiion of radio sets was in edect; data for recent yean may
as being_wid   p p jl tt acae ofthet ho,ude   I     d         not be comparble sine most countries abolihed licening.
boumlbold do not ave to piad a dsproportiote pan of the day   TIVRecaed   (pa rheumdp ap.al.ri)-TV rcve forbroadcast
in fetcig te   is wa_t needs.                                 to gna  public per thousand populan;oa ecudes unlceed TV
Await  Lnt ijpgn (',  ye in coDutries and in years when regsration orTV as wa
<~~~^-~~~t * ^,,~~~a effect.
ad mNs5-Ntamber of people (tol,L urba, and rn   served by
eocreta disposd as percentages of tbeir respove popuaioswigi Ckcdha (pr r                   d dpopu lmado _r)-Shows the aver-
Excmer dispol may incde the oection ad doisposl, wnih or      a1t ciculat  of 'daily geral intest nw      " deined as a
without treatmenL  of bhuan encmta and waste-water by water-  paiodica pubbt   devod primay  to  wrdig gcneral ne.
borne syte  or the us of pit privie and similar instllations  It is coidted to be "daily if it apper at lest four tim  a week
Pepab k p w P       i   p"l-on divided by number of pCac        h     A_         A d     r Cat pr r_wBaed on the
tsing physiansqualifed frommedicalaschool at university level.  number of tidckets sold during the year. including admision to
A -   w      Nwdnat Po b   -p4 lfdatin divided by number of   dive-in cinema and mobile unitL
practcig mek   d fmale grdua  nuse, asistant nuns,
pracl nus  and nurig awuliae                                  lABOR FORCE
_1 -I    P  lifffdtd           ai*% *i   idWbpu b ulud iwd Labr  force  anhdunempEconoyedbutce   active pehsouw in-
(total urbn  nd rural) divided by heir respectrve nuwber of   duding armtd rore and unpopployed but excludiag housewives,
hospitl beds avaibe n   public and pri genal and pciald       students. et  crng populaton or al ag9s. D1initons in
hosptal d m  habiation centes Hospil am esabl                 various mous   a          omable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 _auL
pemanndy sfed by at ket one phyicia. Establishments prov-     f       (p &w)-Siake labor orce as pcrentage of toul labor
iding prinpaly custodiel car ae not included. Rural hosiaK    force.
howee. indude beath and medical ets not pnanendy stffed       Apiedlmv (pmr*t-Labor force in farming foresry. hunting
by a physican (but by a medical assisnt, nure, mdwife. etc.)  and fishing as perentage of total labor form 1960. 1970 and 198D
whc ofer in-patient a_mmodation and provide a limited range   dataL
of medical faciltJieLs                                        Ihry (perce)-IAbor force in mining, constn, manu-
Ast_.  pen Hospi  Red-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gs as percentage of total labor
dis;carges frm hospitals divied by the number of beds.        force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
POE?*A we -Percm)-14 mu,   f                paion
HOUSENG                                                       or civity rates are computed as totaL male and femal labor force
Amqe S1c Of HatsMs   (post pw husd)-tot1, m'ua                as perce:tages of totaL mae ad female popuation of a*1 ages
mEtraria-A housebold consis ofa group ofindividus who share   respectivy 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. Tlese are based on ILOs
lving quartr and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  partcipto rates rtin tig age-sex strucof the populato  and
may not be induded in the household for stisc  purposes       long time trend. A few estimts are from nationd sourel
oqe NJV_ of Pewar   pa Ram-td4 ar_wam. and ia'.-              &Eemmc Dwpendecy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15, and
Avera  number of perons per room  in all urban, and rural     65 and over. to thc working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, respectvely. Dwllings exclude
non-perant structu  and unocupied pats                       9ICOME DISTRIDIIUtON
Prea~  ofDwe^_s wit EIec&ktl-tal  rh.< and nwl--              Pecetq of Toa Diuabk hcmm (both in cm* and Mmd)-
Conventional dwelinp witb electricity in living quares as peren-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tap of total, urba  and nual dwelings respetively.            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A#mW Ewabsa Ratin                                             The folowing estimats are very approximate measures opoverty
Rhixy  cho - toral. mae md fen-ross total,   and             leveds, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolmnet of an1 as t the prmry levd as pecentages of  Eti*anrd AAohr Po"  Incens le d El Upercqfit)-wm*
respective prmay shoola  popuato   While  any countries         d rw-Absolute poverty incomne levl is that income lvel
conide primay school a  to be 6-11 yea  othes do not Mhe      below whicb a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plu esseti
differnc  in country prnc     in the age and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the r.ato   alven. For some counris with univrsal    E_satd Relaie P,A.ry wowme Levd  (USSr pg capia)-,h.u
educadon, gr   enroment may xceed 100 percnt Smnc some        and rwal-Rural reative poverty income level is one-third of
pupib a  below or above the country's standard pnmary-shool   average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levl is
agL                                                           denved from the nural level with adjustment for bigher cost of
Secmshwy sdcoal - roald. mal and femae-Computed as above;    livinig in urbn ar
seoUndary educatio  reque at kt four years of approved pr-    Entima  hAW&W    Bdow Ahsmhv Pweray IAwm Lvd (pe-
may W&      a providp gera   vo oL or tacer training          cantJ-whin nd rwrl- PNtnt of population (urban and rural
tuction for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ace coure are gmemy exlud.
Voaroa E      ianmi (pecn of  coardmy)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tioDS indude chnical industriaL or otber progmns which operate        Economic Analysis and Projections Dqprtment
indendenty or as departmts of s    ycondy intitutions.                                June 1985



No= - on        - 21W  NAM-m 
mm* mixmmumi -U an                                                                                                     a infu
Milak MAWS                     CANI tm mul.das                                               mia                            SEilMni                                         BdU
*                                'mat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I3    *135.1  3I6.22   31.14   NiL   a11ma   m1aim1   ma.  MA?.1     1.32    L.        LU       4.s3           m1a1   amaW    amL   111.
limP  im no      5  .FI1.37    49                               .6.    3.44   -LI2   -4.11    41,4   -LuG  -au4.                              .        .                      -us1     em       -Lu    -aa1
flUi fit. Vii                                9.21   13.34   U2.3    an.1    ILIV    3L111   IL.3    ILK11   2444                   LII    ILlS   *ll.0    m1.u                9wg       4LE     6.95   3ILZ
SI,l  itn. Sal                               LE      iLts    23.9  2 L t   1,32   13.92   322            a.E    ae,4               LO    ILK0        12       8.3              2.411  ILI14   31.29    39.11
rear    vmn                                 -at6   -LUa   -2.22    -LII6    9.21    19.A    21442    ts.41    am1.                                                            -2.49    -I.31      U11    9."3
cofinUIi                                    N.H    3.32   142.81   33.9  47 30.        329.27  342.3    m* a .m                             a.a4 L1  6  1.6e    3.9             iat w   II I an          FL
afhllE                                      14.2    3L.24   44. 9    31.3    42.14    2J1.7   23M    3.31   446                     .14    L3.1    49.55      11.11           aU       34i4    11.9t   23.41
am  ML wins                                 36L43   21346    2.41    61.4   40.43   4.12    4My2  42.311.U42                        LI1S   IL.       4.33     1.31            39.76    22,29    21.16    24.4
mlI ramt aIm                                -1.4s    -2.54   -4.3    -2.94    331.3   -3L.4   -341I  -311.1        101N           1u.s   aIL"    -10.3        7.3I             -as9   -2.13   -2.31   -LUN
SI  ml. 1495                                31.2W    24.40    3Ll6   2.74    45    3.236   3Lii    2a.1I   41.0                    1.78    9.2    -4.1    31.133.21.31 1L2.3L25.111 3.4
4a01K94M                                     13.13    ELMS     5 aLg    1aa     6.23    31.E    31.29    31.3    33.131             2.2      4.05     L.9     O."              31.3     4.32    8,35    m.2
tuna,t tun                                  ant111    4.4.   0.0    ILA    11I6           .2I   M".1     nI.e    9.22               L.41    L.6    2Li    5.21                3.12    32."    31.291   jiM
swmvi                                       14.44    n.Ai   Ina.3   33.6   Wl.f    M aI I sar2  3491.62   313.23                     .73    3.3       3.43    4.34            21.31   ILl1    14.21    3L92
fmIs  Ol M4 mu m SK   5391W                            coar maCsm M 43L3
mae!,, inL                                     SW3      MO3  31233    N46        2242    12743  1U22       3429    MM4
am u  GM                                      a]2    Mi       2424      232    1332      331      mn       mn      313
C111,11    -                                 332      189     Slit    271    CUa         ml3    Dii6    so1        12
0-faii mm      7d                             311      31M    MMP    32NN        MO1    414    49425   123W   s13
mIgm     ia3                                  32k      II1I   3342    161      347?   3S43       114     3am      31U24
inW    IMUB K 35                             14M2 24101SIl1RI 2111    4122                  4 329?    119     1 12 31121
is"7 Mam  K                                 IL"S    1421   35t.6   36.3        4.3    99.2    31.13  343.4   23.24
W     lAiU                                  39.69    3.33   15.49    233.21139.32  421.42  691.33  1331.38
LaWS MWE   naflUa                           32.4    ILE4   23.97    24.313     S LU     16 367 132  2321.33 
GMim   Rmais                                31.27   ZlU      2.21    39.32   fU.4    21.30    22.
SIT  lfnuis                                3I.1    39.3    33.32    9.12    21.21    21.23 2I.1
=54104369i                                   4.31      10     3.39    -0.ii   -L.5       1.3     4.34
WlhTL almS!M                                  L1.2    341     9.w6    MIT6   33.42       19 L      M7 1
Mid!T aim)                                  -2.4    -LU    -71.31  -34.74  -ILmI   -L.3    -L1.3
am                                             21    3111,       2*      If      3v
imo      me   3i0                                 4.41    37.43   62.32    93.51                                                                          2.21
111111, EIIatIIS                               -      433   144.   z1.63   23.1                                                                              aa.9
IRMEli 1                                              La4   31.94   314.39   222.33                                                                           1.19
OIL   Mn FM        9.WUA                       -      4.14   i'.91   an1..1  32.96,                                                                           7.91
m. AMR. Mm            m                              31.3    3.36   242.4    261.33                                                                          32.8
353 -a6.24    I.E                                                      LU11    L42                                                                            062
aidISf                                         -    3.4   197.311  299.6138  244                                                                             31.31
miSail                                         -    3MN   62.1439tHL  133.35                                                                                 3.26
aim                                                   16,99   144.3I  391.6   236.2                                                                           7.2
ma                                             -   34.99  14.3.6 322.12  2331.37
um rw         aguLmM ZIF OK                                          MUK MK man of (IN n  3mm aD at2W v
mass                                         tip      4.u                      21.22   21641                       LM?                      2.6    [LI                                IB33   IN."
33673                                        2.A3    L4.                       21.21    41.41                      tar                      ama    a.33                               121.3    364.9
aM                                          32.4    ILK                        L 346.3 .I1E                        2.3                      1.34     6.91                             153   349.
kw30Uf
It sIKM waLI~.
v/ 3we r   aM - mi" a Ai cmumum - nm miO  MM
v  Ws 11  uw  m    aKm           tou aNCI Ini        MIMm a sMi  inWAim a.
massr  silms
Mr.mm" guammitWI Dmsm aa 31MAL
i15 VP. =MMm  rumNK, Mns OMiMM
Mla



- 28 -
YUIIC  OF PAIIENI. E11 l6  AEIITINEE NO KIT ul .10 I
......... ... . .. . ........ __ .  ...  . _._ ...................._..._
ISU  NILLIN IT UENT MIClI                                                                       PS  *6e
ACTIUA LECI
...... ..... _............. ................ ___._.... _....._..
1970     1t97      930     I1I    1932       2CI3  1984        1915   1990
P6UM. WACE O Pt .uEKt
CiWS  INaCLu11s    .                            3221     .193    23925    2,124   22149    27164    38415    2637    47134
:;Ni@lS  l1Cwu0IlF NFS.                        32        9910    2425     34t20    20207    12711    14231    2F59     33
0E5011CC EI a E                                 -75    -3117    -3212   -619*    5942    14333    24284         199     1026
*T FlatION  iICO                                419    -1259    4393    -7541  -121US    .9054   -1215    -327    -2093
MINESI PAVEtRS.                               *'90    -1032     41l    -o2      -122S    -0l2l9   -1225    -2I430   -12213
tLURENM? AEL! StNCE                            -1244    -4876    -1223   -12544    -2221        4      39U     -279      -717
020tB DIoEci IOfvTsiwt                           215      204     12254    226      265       460       392      400      300
IC 93. No3 cm6  fEb LOINS. MET                   2U1 2.2    4374           9625     6419     2W* 71   -IT                  n 4804
DIS3UEKSNTS                                   829      4422     NO      23393    1054 I     02      241      3126    144K
OEPAII                                         5i7     4120     4424     3179     4010     $42      133      6147    11524
IDF  NETI                                         ---      -      -i2      -lOl      221     230      229        OD    -105
01E9  CAPTITAL                                  94      6276     254.     273    -6874    -5224    -2293    -100    -125
CEI   IIN 1REVSES Y -INCREASEI        -         -10      -165    -1023     -325    4133    -401    -3432        3000   -293
SPW t2. ATION                                     45       ---      14       70       --                 ...      ---      -
NT   D LOUN COMMENMTS
;C1  RED. MD  L. ;. LDOI
imp                                           161.0   323.00   625.00  1021.0   539.90 7D0.30
3I191  IlUIL.ATER3l                           112.40   121.3    3300         22.50  23.20   .2.0
IMENOI                                         719.90   245.0   990.90 D   12.tO   1171.10   224.71
!aLIES                                         70.00   167.00    5.30   209.t   207.20   131.70
MKnS MD F2il IIAL IhSIITOTnM                  370.40  1333.40  4179.0  13M30  3429.3  539.06
913T IN 013DI SERVICE
PoLRCK nDo    b73T4Uu IS SMD     MS          3204.30 22603.9 3371.00  42s W. 3143.48           O 66733.7I  644 .40                                                      DIEM   NR
(EU OF PENISD)
INErEST e  PuBLIC DE3T                      216.44   B2 0 3E4.30  4rt1.90  6045.5e  650.3  7526710                                                               U     AST6SIE MNO DIS_
91E31I9S1    POLIC RET                        41n.48  7J3.LS  W4 .70  369.20  3324.96  3201.9  2444.50
PikErIC IEIT S ICE I21T I                     692.00  1512.60  7b50   391.10  9172."  99t4.20  9961.20                                                                  e  EE  31. 2994
lUMEN 1  EUIIT EANIII;S F                                                                                                                       PlJLIC N I L.T.
aOLIC DEBT SICE 1112                    22.20      3.29    32.114    2L.5    15Jt       .44    32.75                                           LONG                            MUILLI     P13531
inS                                     3212     4.U
WE        TMS OF PULIC HEM M 2I2ENTS                                                                                                           OTIE UFF. NUMB                           63       4.47
a.  INITEEST AS I OF PRIM  tEAO S             7.40    20.20    11.41    14.00    14.35    13.bl    11.26                                      OTiER PRIVATE                           5902    U.Z
3.0. An1h S3.U-CES
h.    UE  4A1T2111t F NEU1 IOS                 -       6.90     9.90     9.10     6.90     0.20     9.20
[WM)352                                                                                                                                 TOTAL                                   44      I00.00
IM   EIPSRE
a.  2    L.. AN60 A.   2 U                   I2320     9.85     6.5      5.74     535      4.03     4.05
PUBLIC D.L Ag O
6.  23  23 SICES AS T W                      7.30     7.34     3.25     3.31     L49      L29       3.29
aLIC REIT SE0IC2S
ai AU FIQES  iOB  T1 NIm   M  LOIC TED  aIIC ER3  mL   ins.
... NOT MANILiE  'EOIELT Kr INCISE  23 IE TOTAL.
NUCESi        U OEIICD. US. No  STAFF ESTIRATEL
JI    2t 1915



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1985)
Loan                                                              Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower   Purpose                           Cancellations   bursed
59 loans fully disbursed                       3,611.19
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA    Irrigation                             92.00        40.53
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA    Industry                              175.00        22.60
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Mining              40.00        14.24
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA    Irrigation                            160.00       132.10
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Industry           100.00         0.46
1908      1981      NAFINSA    Irrigation                             23.00         1.70
1913      1981      BANOBRAS   Water Supply                          125.00        59.03
1929      1981      BANOBRAS   Railways                              150.00        36.45
1945      1981      NAFINSA    Rainfed Agriculture                   264.60        78.81
1964      1981      BANPESCA   Port Development                        5.45         1.51
1990      1981      BANOBRAS   Urban Development II                  164.00       115.49
2042      1982      NAFINSA    Technical Training                     90.00         1.01
2043      1982      NAFINSA    Integrated Rural Development           175.00       56.42
2100      1982      NAFINSA    Irrigation. Rehab II                   65.00        56.26
2142      1982      NAFINSA    Capital Goods Industry                 152.30      103.62
2154      1982      NAFINSA    Pollution Control                      25.00        13.99
2191      1983      NAFINSA    San Fernando Agri.                     48.40        31.36
2194      1983      BANOBRAS   Urban Engineering                       9.20         6.11
2262      1983      NAFINSA    Agri. Marketing                       115.00        82.70
2281      1983      BANOBRAS   Third Water Supply                    100.30        81.52
2325      1983      NAFINSA    Third Small/Medium Industry           175.00        98.94
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT  Export Development                    350.00       243.20
2428      1984      BANOBRAS   Highways                              200.00       139.08
2450      1984      BANPESCA   Ports                                  76.30        68.44
2454      1984      NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                   300.00        25.16
25253/    1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Rural Roads                    22.00        22.00
2526J/    1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Agric. Dev.                    90.00        90.00
2546T/    1985      NAFINSA    Small/Med. Scale Industry II          105.00       105.00
25597/    1985      NAFINSA    Vocational Education                   81.00        81.00
2575T/    1985      BANOBRAS   Railways V                            300.00       300.00
26103/    1986      NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                    180.00      180.00
2612T/    1986      BANOBRAS   Low-Income Housing                    150.00       150.00
TOTAL                                            7,719.74
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1,544.13
Total now outstanding                            6,175.61
Amount sold                   92.34
of which has been repaid    92.34                    0.00
Total now held by Bank 2/                        6,175.61
Total undisbursed                                         -   2,438.73
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                       US$ Million
Year           Obligor                      Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industrial Equipment           0.8    -        0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul              0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1             Twist Drills                   0.3             0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                             2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                       Steel                          0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1         Sodium Sulphate                0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment            -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1        Iron Ore Mining                1.5    -        1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1        Textiles                      12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Perlodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                    /2      /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                        15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                        1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                         12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                   19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3        Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                           -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -            18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                    25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                       Flat Class                   114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                       110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                   59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                      Agri-Business                 11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                    Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility           Industrial Equipment         100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour              2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                      16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                      705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                    550.7   22.1  572.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            155.0   26.1  181.1
Total Undishursed (including participants)                   150.4    6.5  156.9
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO: SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:         About six months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                   CPNH
(a)  First Presentation to the Bank:        January 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:        June 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:            January 27-January 29, 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         June 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would complete feasibility studies of new pilot
areas for Bank review, approval and selection by December 31, 1987
(para. 47);
Cb) CPNR would continue to act as project coordinator, and the Techni-
cal Committee established under PROnERITH I would he maintained
(para. 49);
(c) Existing agreement on supply and coordination of credit established
under PRODERITH I would be extended to cover the area and implemen-
tation period of the project (para. 49);
(d) The Government would establish local funds for operation and
maintenance of smalt-gcale infrastructure on a pilot basis in Pujal
Coy II (para. 61).
{e) NAFINSA and the Guarantor would enter Into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the project,
and for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of funds
which the Borrower is required to pay to the Bank (Condition of
Effectiveness).



AA e x I c o 0ICO                                                                                 so1s
PRODERITH 11 PROJECT    HI PROJECT 
cc" 0                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBPROJECT AREAS    'ECT AREAS                                 00.
0      - r    r   -   INt                                           - -
SJ  H  f    8                               .      a!  . IFD    I:W    10a  .  Iso                         c^weXe2        /\ 0.0.            C/
- T R 0    .    1                                                                          Q U I  N T A '   \ UT N _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                          W     T      
'St  <  I  A D D   #.E.V  ' .. ,-.,r-  <  B E L IE
X O A X   A>  C   A              {        t                 o    'u A T E                                                     A .     A AA
K _ > - >,Jf "''"'                                                                               C         A P          S T
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I, -/                                                            






