Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15877
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2658-ME)
June 28, 1996
Nexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit
Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Currency exchange rates during implementation
Year                                     Mex$/USS
1986                                         575.4
1987                                        1353.7
1988                                        2282.0
1989                                        2464.0
199(                                        2821.0
1991                                        2950.0
1992                                        3050.0
1993                                           3.1
1994                                           3.5
1995                                           6.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)         =          3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)               -         0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)                 =         10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (krn2)                0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)                     2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAL                          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ANAGSA                         National Insurance Company, S.A
(Compaffia Nacional de Seguros)
ATICOCH                        Chiapas Coast Integrated Technical Assistance
(Asesoria Tecnica Integral de la Costa de Chiapas)
BANRURAL                       National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
CNA                            National Water Commission
(Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
CPNH                           National Commissioni of Water Planning
(Comisi6n de Plan Nacional Hidriu)ico)
DDR                            Rural Development District
(Distrito de Desarrollo Rural)
DRD                            Decentralization and Regional Development Project
(Proyecto de Descentralizaci6n y Desarrollo Regional)
FAO                            Food and Agriculture Organization
(Organizacion para Alinsentaci6n y Agricultura de Naciones Unidas)
FIRA                           Agricultural Trust Fund
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultura)
GDTT                           Gerencia de Distrito de Temporal Tecnificado
GOM                            Government of Mexico
IMTA                           Mexican Institute of Water Technologv
(Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua)
MNIFAP                         National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(Irnstituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, y Agropecuarias)
O&M                            Operation & Maintenance
PROCATI                        Agriculture Training, Extension and Research Program
(Programa de Capacitaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica e Investigaci6n)
PRODERITH                      Program for Integral Development of Humid Tropics
(Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integral para el Tr6pico Humedo)
SAGARD                         Secretariat of Agriculture Livestock and Rural Development
(Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural)
SAR                            Staff Appraisal Report
SARH                           Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidriulicos)
SCS                            Soil Conservation Service
(Servicio de Conservaci6n de Suelos de Estados LUnidos)
SEDESOL                        Secretariat of Social Development
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SEMARNAP                       Secretariat of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
(Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca)
RCRD                           Regional Centers for Rural Development
(Centros Regionales de DesarTollo Rural)
UCT                            Technical Coordination Unit
(tJnidad de Coordinaci6n Tiemnca)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2658-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   ..............................................                    i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background                                                                1
B. Project Objectives.                                                       3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                        4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                      6
E. Project Sustainability.                                                   8
F. Bank Performance.                                                         9
G. Borrower Performance   .........          ........................       10
H. Assessment of Outcome  .........          ........................       11
I. Future Operations .............       ..........................         13
J. Key Lessons Learned       .........       ........................       14
PART II  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
PART mI  APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Subprojects Technical Summaries
D. Map
E. List of main reports and documents used in the ICR
F. Satellite Imagery Interpretation maps
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents mauy not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-IH
Loan 2658-ME
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Tropical
Agricultural Development Project - PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME) in the amount of
$109 million equivalent, which was approved on March 4, 1986 and made effective on
July 8, 1986. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, compared to the original
target closing date of December 31, 1993. Total disbursements amounted to about $88.3
million, $20.7 million was canceled in August 10, 1988 and the final disbursement of about
$7.0 million was made on May 17, 1996.
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Jose Simas assisted by
John Bowlin of the Mexico Country Department of the Latin America and Caribbean
Regional Office and Jorge Rinc6n and Juan Morelli from FAO-CP. The report was
reviewed by Carl Dahlman, Acting Director (LAMXC), Michael Baxter, Acting Manager
(LASLG), Carmen Hamann, Lead Operations Specialist (LAMXC), and Anna Sant'Anna,
Sector Coordinator (LAMXC).
Preparation of this ICR is based on the findings of field visits to the project areas,
supervision mission reports, interviews with government officials, project beneficiaries,
and other Bank staff, and a review of material in the project file. The Borrower has
contributed to the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR, and by preparing its own ex-post
evaluation of the Project. The Borrower's summary is included as appendix B to the ICR.






ii
Evaluation Summary
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH - II
Loan 2658-ME
MEXICO
Introduction
1. The Second Tropical Agriculture Development Project, PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-
ME), was designed to consolidate and expand the achievements of the First
Agriculture Development Project, PRODERITH-I (Loan 1553-ME). PRODERITH-I
was approved in 1978 with the objective of contributing to the development the
Mexican wet tropical lowlands by investing in drainage, flood control, roads, and
agriculture research and extension. As a second phase project, PRODERITH-II
extended the methods proved in the first phase to a wider area of the tropical
lowlands, including a total of eight subprojects, five selected during preparation and
three others selected during early implementation (Table 6A, Part II)'.
2. In addition to PRODERITH-I and II, the Bank made two other loans to improve the
productivity of humid tropical agriculture in Mexico, namely: the Chiapas Agriculture
Development Project (Loan 2526-ME, approved April 30, 1985 and closed December
31, 1993); and the Rainfed Areas Development Project (RFADP) now under
implementation. The latter was designed to support improvements agricultural
productivity in rainfed areas, through investments in ten poor maize-growing states in
Central and Southern Mexico, including the tropical states of Chiapas, Oaxaca,
Veracruz and Guerrero. The RFADP overlaps geographically with PRODERITH-II
in Veracruz and Chiapas.
3. The concept of PRODERITH-II grew from the analysis of a diagnostic study of the
Gulf and Southeastem regions and from the lessons learned from the pilot project --
PRODERITH-I. The analysis concluded that the regions had excellent agricultural
potential, but were constrained by physical, technical and socio-economic restrictions
which could be overcome through the project.
Project Objectives
4. The objectives of PRODERITH-II, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
were to: (a) alleviate poverty; (b) expand the rational exploitation of Mexico's
tropical low lands; (c) increase agricultural productivity and production; and (d)
strengthen agricultural and farmers' institutions. To meet these objectives, the project
design included the following components:
Cross references refer to the text of Part I, unless otherwise noted.



iii
(a)   infrastructure construction in the subproject and pilot areas, including: (i)
about 1,500 km of farm service roads; (ii) about 700 km of primary,
secondary, and tertiary drains; (iii) about 1,400 supporting structures, such as
culverts, fords, and bridges; and (iv) general civil works for storage,
maintenance, and offices;
(b)   on-farm land treatment: (i) about 36,000 ha of field drains, ditches, and land
smoothing; (ii) about 47,500 ha of soil conservation systems; and (iii) about
60,000 ha of mechanical clearing and major land smoothing;
(c)   procurement of heavy equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance of infrastructure, and for production and construction operations;
(d)   strengthening of agricultural extension, farmer organizations and
agricultural research;
(e)   training of farmers in techniques of integrated rural development, rural
communications, producer organization, self management schemes, and
production systems-oriented methodology in crop, livestock, and forestry
production;
(f)   special studies as follows: (i) complementary studies on the subproject areas;
(ii) detailed studies on the five new pilot areas; and (iii) marketing studies for
the new project products; and,
(g)   technical assistance, through international consultants, in soil conservation
and mass media communications. These activities extended two effective
ongoing programs (the USDA Soil Conservation Service (SCS) and the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO)), established under PRODERITH-I.
5. The project addressed the poverty alleviation objective by focusing on improving
the economic conditions of about 40,000 rural families through: (i) more efficient use
of local resources; and (ii) provision of improved infrastructure services. The second
objective, expansion of the rational use of tropical low lands, was addressed
through the combined use of technical, administrative and organizational interventions
successfully tested under PRODERITH-I. The third objective, increase production
and productivity, was the expected outcome all project activities. Finally, the fourth
major objective, strengthening of agricultural institutions and promotion of
producers' involvement in operation and maintenance (O&M) of infrastructure, was
pursued as a method to ensure the future sustainability of project infrastructure.
6. All four major project objectives were substantially achieved (paras. 13-21). The
economic analysis carried out at the time of project completion shows an overall
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project of about 14.2 percent in the eight
subproject areas. This outcome was very close to the SAR projection for the delayed
alternative of three years in achieving project benefits (Table 9, Part I).



iv
Implementation Experience and Results
7. The project was successful in achieving its development objectives, project outcomes
are expected to be sustainable, and implementation performance was satisfactory
(paras. 13-38 and paras. 46-53). Most project activities were carried out closely in
accordance to project design as appraised. The only significant design changes that
took place during implementation were related to the Pujal Coy-II subproject and the
procurement of machinery (paras. 8, 29 and 39). However, the success of the project
was affected by several factors which, if addressed in a timely manner, would probably
have resulted in highly satisfactory implementation performance. These were generally
under the control of implementing agencies, and include: (i) frequent changes in
project coordination during implementation; (ii) implementation delays; (iii) inadequate
budget allocations and execution; (iv) insufficient training of farmers to close the gap
on modem technology; (v) delays in selecting and purchasing machinery; and (vi)
inaccurate cost estimates at appraisal, which partly explains the large discrepancy
between actual and projected project cost (paras. 22-32).
8. Project cost in nominal terms was $115.4 million, compared to $217.5 million
estimated at appraisal (Tables 8 - A and B, Part II). In real terms (1995 constant US
Dollars) total project cost was $143.2 million, or about 60 percent below SAR
estimates (Table 8C, Part II). This substantial cost underrun resulted in less Bank
financing and consequently partial loan cancellation. The major causes of this cost
underrun include: (i) inadequate preparation and implementation of the Pujal Coy-II
subproject; in fact, the design of the Pujal Coy-II subproject, which was equivalent to
40 percent of total project cost at appraisal, was changed from agriculture to lifestock,
resulting in substantial infrastructure cost savings (para. 44); (ii) availability of
additional funds from external sources for infrastructure implementation, not
anticipated at appraisal (para. 30); (iii) project savings due to efficient procurement of
civil works and improved engineering; (iv) two major peso devaluations during 1986-
1987 and 1994-1995, leading to corresponding reductions in loan disbursements (para.
23); and (v) exclusion of machinery from Bank financing due to delays in selection and
procurement (para. 34).
9. The two-year implementation delay2 experienced by the project was mainly a result of:
(i) insufficient budget allocations on the part of the government and delays in releasing
budget funds, particularly during project start-up period (1987-89); (ii) accelerated
deterioration in the provision of complementary agriculture services, including
extension, research, and credit, by the Regional Centers for Rural Development
(RCRD), the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(INIFAP), and the National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL); and (iii) frequent
changes in project management (paras. 31-34).
10. Bank Performance. Over all, the Bank performance was satisfactory. Its main
strengths were: (a) appropriate response to a shift in government sector policy
2, The SAR anticipated the risk of a three-year delay in project implementation that could affect the
benefits stream (SAR para. 3.17).



v
towards investments in rainfed agriculture in the poor Southern states; (b) effective
involvement and assistance in project preparation and redirection of one of the eight
subprojects (Pujal-Coy); and (c) efficient use of the lessons learned from the successful
results of the innovative pilot project. (paras. 39-41).
11. Borrower Performance. Although the Borrower was unable to maintain stable
project management, its implementation performance was satisfactory. However, the
two-year delay in project completion can be attributed, in part, to the institutional
instability which permeated project implementation. The project executing agency was
changed by three administrative reforms, from the National Commission of Water
Planning (Comisi6n del Plan Nacional Hidrculico - CPNH) in 1986-87, to the
Mexican Institute of Water Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua -
IMTA) in 1987-89, and later to the National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional
delAgua - CNA) in 1990-95. Overall project responsibility was shifted from the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (Secretaria de Agriculturay
Recursos Hidrdulicos - SARH) in 1986-94, to the Secretariat of Environment, Natural
Resources and Fisheries (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturalesy Pesca
- SEMARNAP) in 1994-95. In total, there were five changes in the management of
the project unit. The main strength of the Borrower's performance was the solid
construction expertise and implementation capacity of SARH and CNA, accumulated
over their many years of experience with agricultural infrastructure projects. The
implementation of the project was carried out economically and almost on schedule,
except during the initial and final stages (1986-89 and 1995), when government-
imposed investment restrictions delayed project implementation and completion. The
best performance was during the period 1990-94. (paras. 42-45).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12. The project made substantial contributions to poverty alleviation by: (i) generating
approximately 30,000 new direct jobs in its subprojects; (ii) increasing farmers income
by over $50 million3 equivalent per year, through improved agriculture production;
(iii) introducing small cottage industries and backyard fruit orchards and domestic
animal production managed by women's groups in poor rural communities; and (iv)
improving welfare in rural communities through better infrastructure, especially roads
and drainage networks. Complementary project activities also contributed to poverty
alleviation, such as organization of women's groups for productive projects, and urban
improvements in the participating ejidos (including water supply, self-help home
improvement, and street rehabilitation) (paras. 16 and 46).
13. By making land suitable for agricultural production and providing extension, training,
and technology transfer services, the project contributed to expand the rational use
of land, achieving substantial increase in tropical fruit production (notably bananas,
citrus, and pineapples -- about 15,000 ha), as well as improved pastures (about
3  The project generated an estimated US$ 25 million in incremental earnings for family labor and
US$25 million in increased net farm income.



vi
300,000 ha) and livestock. Tropical soil conservation practices were introduced
through extension, with a potential impact on over 85,000 ha (paras. 17 and 47).
14. Production increased substantially as a result of the project. Expansion of
production area averaged 35 percent for all crops, reaching over 90 percent for some
crops, such as beans, cotton, pineapple, citrus, and banana. Less than expected
growth in production area was observed in the case of rice, soybeans, and mango,
partly due to imperfect crop choice at the project design stage and the land use change
in the Pujal-Coy subproject (Table 6C, Part II). As a result of the introduction of
higher value crops, the value of production increased by approximately 93 percent in
the project area, reaching over 100 percent for several crops. Significant productivity
growth occurred only in the case of sugarcane and pineapple. Overall, productivity
growth was modest, compared to appraisal targets, partly due to unsatisfactory
provision of agriculture services which delayed technology transfer and the adverse
impact of agriculture price policies (paras. 18-20 and 48, and Table 6B, Part II).
15. The strengthening of agriculture organizations was substantially achieved through
the installation of INIFAP laboratories, capacity building at IMTA and at the states,
and institutional development of CNA. The promotion of farmers' organizations to
take over the O&M functions is still on-going, along with purchase of relevant
machinery, which has been provided for in the 1996 CNA budget. (paras. 21 and 49-
53).
16. Future Operations. Two main issues must be addressed when considering future
operations for development of tropical agriculture in Mexico. First, whether or not
the Bank should have another operation to assist investments in tropical agriculture
and rural development in the Southern states. Second, what should be the institutional
framework used and which implementing agencies should be involved, given the recent
major institutional changes in Mexico, and taking into account the PRODERITH-II
experience. The answer to the first question, should be yes, considering two factors:
(a) the positive economical and social results achieved under PRODERITH-I and II;
and (b) the fact that much still needs to be done, especially in Southem states, where
poverty alleviation in rural areas is a high priority, and where an estimated 10 million
ha suitable for intensive rainfed agriculture remain underutilized. On the issue of
appropriate institutional framework, the PRODERITH experience indicates that future
operations should be centered at the state level, supported, throughout the project
cycle, by timely interventions of the relevant technical agencies operating at federal
and state levels (paras. 54-56).
Key Lessons Learned
17. Rural development projects, such as PRODERITH, represent a viable model for the
investment of federal resources in the poorer regions of the country. Two innovative
factors contributed to the success of the model: (a) the active participation of local
producers, and (b) the cumulative impact of investments made by the private and
public sectors. This investment strategy is recommended for the Southern tropical



vii
states, such as Chiapas, where many other federal and state funds seem to be
dissipated without significant productive results.
18. The main lessons learned from PRODERITH-II that are relevant to the preparation of
future projects, include (para. 57):
* project design based on a successful pilot experiment leads to better choice and
design of subprojects, and fosters well targeted government-financed
investments, which in turn can represent a valuable contribution to an overall
poverty reduction strategy;
* project flow of funds and Bank disbursements can be improved through
priority scheduling of project investments and by the delegation of greater
authority over the management of project funds to the project executing
agencies;
* the organization of local producers, established as a priority from the very
beginning of the project, creates a sustainable basis for O&M of project
infrastructure and contributes to overall project success and sustainability;
n promotion and involvement of private sector investments in tropical
agriculture is especially desirable in the case of fruits and perishable products,
given their specific technology, delicate handling, packing, marketing, and high
costs for industrial processing; the effort to promote private investment should
be part of project design from the outset;
e  working more closely with state authorities, mitigates the adverse effects
caused by excessive federal government centralization and constant changes in
project management. State involvement in project design and implementation
can be enhanced by: (a) seeking state commitment to the project at the design
stage; and (b) leaving a fair amount of decision-making to the states,
throughout the project cycle,
* the inclusion of livestock (double purpose cattle, goats, and sheep) and the
improvement of pastures, proves to be an important and complementary
activity to agriculture in tropical areas, and may contribute significantly to farm
income growth;
* there is need to pay closer attention to the O&M of infrastructure, by
promoting appropriate local organization to respond for it, through the
provision of training, strengthened administrative capacity, appropriate
machinery mix, and appropriate instruments to collect fees to ensure self-
sufficient O&M; to this end, it is more effective to rely on producer's
organizations for O&M than to use outside contractors;
* project management instability at the federal level negatively affects project
implementation performance, and should be minimized through



viii
decentralization of most implementation functions to the state level and closer
project supervision; and,
* the availability of credit accelerates on-farm investments, specially for poor
farmers, such as the majority of the farmers settled in the ejidos of the
Southem states covered by PRODERITH-II. Project design did not include a
line of credit to farmers, because it assumed that credit from other sources
would be available. This proved not to be the case, and project outcomes
suggest that production growth could have been much higher and occurred
earlier in the project cycle, if credit was available.






1
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION HISTORY
1. The Second Tropical Agriculture Development Project, PRODERITH-IH (Loan 2658-ME),
was designed to consolidate and expand the achievements of the First Agriculture
Development Project, PRODERITH-I (Loan 1553-ME). PRODERITH-I was approved in
1978 with the objective of contributing to the development the Mexican wet tropical
lowlands by investing in drainage, flood control, roads, and agriculture research and
extension. As a second phase project, PRODERITH-II extended the methods proved in
the first phase to a wider area of the tropical lowlands, including a total of eight
subprojects, five selected during preparation and three others selected during early
implementation (Table 6A, Part II).
2. In addition to PRODERITH-I and II, the Bank made two other loans to improve the
productivity of humid tropical agriculture in Mexico, namely: the Chiapas Agriculture
Development Project (Loan 2526-ME, approved April 30, 1985 and closed December 31,
1993); and the Rainfed Areas Development Project (RFADP) now under implementation.
The latter was designed to support improvements agricultural productivity in rainfed areas,
through investments in ten poor maize growing states in Central and Southem Mexico,
including the tropical states of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Guerrero. The RFADP
overlaps geographically with PRODERITH-II in Veracruz and Chiapas.
3. During the last decade, the Bank supported five other agricultural projects designed to
raise sector efficiency through public investments. These are: (i) Agricultural Extension
Project (PROCATI), designed as a pilot project to strengthen public agricultural extension
and adaptive research, for which Loan 2859-ME of $20 million was approved June 1987;
(ii) Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project, designed to transfer irrigation districts to user
associations, rehabilitate infrastructure, and promote new investment and sector policy
changes, for which Loan 3419-ME of $400 million was approved December 1991; (iii)
Agricultural Technology Project (ATP), aimed at strengthening the generation and transfer
of agriculture technology, building upon on the pilot experience of the PROCATI, for
which Loan 3465-ME of $150 million was approved May 1992; (iv) two Decentralization
and Regional Development Projects (DRD), designed to implement the largest public
poverty reduction program established by the government for the poorest states, were
partly financed by Loan 3310-ME of $350 million, approved in March 1991 (DRD-I), and
by Loan 3790-ME of $500 million, approved in September 1994 (DRD-II); the focus of
these two project is on investments in the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca,
Michoacan, Puebla, Veracruz, and Zacatecas; and (v) On-Farm and Minor Irrigation
Networks Improvement Project, designed to improve the efficiency and self-reliance of the
irrigation subsector through shared investments by beneficiaries and the government, for
which Loan 3704-ME for $200 million was approved in February 1994 (Table 2, Part II).



2
Summary of Implementation History
4. The implementation of PRODERITH-I can be divided into three major periods: (i) project
start-up, 1986-89; (ii) accelerated implementation, 1990-94; and (iii) project decline and
completion, 1995.
5. The project start-up period (1986-89) was marred by several institutional changes and a
major economic crisis in Mexico, when prices declined and investment projects throughout
the country were adversely affected. As a result, the start-up of project implementation
was much slower than originally anticipated. One of the most important institutional
changes during this period was the dissolution of the previous River Basin Executive
Commissions, initiated and developed under the pilot PRODERITH-I and originally
responsible for PRODERITH-II. As a consequence of this event, project implementation
and coordination functions were transferred to the National Water Plan Commission
(Comisi6n del Plan Nacional Hidraulico -- CPNH), which also completed PRODERITH-
I. Subsequently, with the creation of the Mexican Institute of Water Technology (Insfituto
Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua -- IMTA), the IMTA assumed the functions of the
CPNH and took over the responsibility for PRODERITH-II. In early 1989, the National
Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua -- CNA) was created and incorporated
IMTA as one of its dependent agencies.
6. During the 1990-94 period, the project entered into an accelerated pace of implementation.
Although project budgets were still lower than planned, disbursements were timely and
well distributed among subprojects. In March, 1991, IMTA functions were redefined to
focus on technical assistance, training and institutional development, while CNA's became
exclusively responsible for infrastructure. At the subproject level, technical coordination
units (Unidades de Coordinaci6n Tecnica -- UCTs) were created to manage field activities
involving assistance to farmers in the areas of production techniques, training, and
organization. The UCTs effectively acted as Non-Government Organizations (NGOs),
with IMTA funding and supervision. Access to appropriate technological information was
assured by IMTA through technical cooperation agreements with FAO and the SCS.
7. This period was characterized by intensive diversification and extension of agriculture
production in the project area. An additional 55,000 ha were put under production,
equivalent to 3 5 percent growth compared to pre-project production records. The most
important increases were observed in tropical fruits, improved pastures, and permanent
crops, notably cotton. The private sector accompanied the growth in production by
increasing investments in the areas of fruit packing, marketing and agroindustries. The
impact of these private investments was significant, particularly in the case of
agroindustries established in the Centro de Veracruz and Zanapa-Tonali subprojects, and
private fruit packing houses installed in the Sierra de Tabasco, El Bejuco, and Tizimin
subprojects. Supporting this process, the UCTs established a rural communications
network program, with assistance from FAO, and targeted its activities to farmer's self-
sufficiency and sustainability. Special attention was given to the promotion of women's
productive projects, which resulted in more than 300 small projects such as: cottage
industries, small groceries stores, small orchards, vegetables gardens, dairy cattle, and small
animals. At the same time, several ejidos in the project area were improved through small



3
infrastructure and productive investments, including water supply systems, small brick
manufacturing plants for self-help housing construction, and earth moving and gravel lining
of the main streets. The project closing date was extended by two years, from December
31, 1993 to December 31, 1994, and subsequently to December 31, 1995.
8. In 1995, the project completion phase was negatively affected by uncertainties associated
with a new national administration, major institutional changes introduced at the sector
level, and by recession since December 1994. Climatic adversities also had a negative
impact in the final year of project implementation. An administrative reorganization, which
took place at the federal level in late 1994, changed the organization and functions of the
CNA, by transferring the responsibilities of the SARH to two new Secretariats: the
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (Secretaria de Agricultura;,
Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural - SAGARD) and SEMARNAP. In this context, CNA
became a dependent agency of SEMARNAP. The CNA administration had difficulties
adapting to its new role and institutional setting. These institutional changes combined
with the economic recession, led to budget cuts and reallocations which further limited the
already small CNA project budget for 1995. As a result, most project activities
programmed for 1995, especially the continuation of UCTs and the procurement of
machinery, were not carried out and had been reprogrammed for 1996.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9. The concept of PRODERITH-II grew from the analysis of a diagnostic study of the Gulf
and Southeastern regions and from the lessons learned from the pilot project --
PRODERITH-I. The analysis concluded that the regions studied had excellent agricultural
potential, albeit constrained by physical, technical and socio-economic restrictions. The
physical constrains were: (a) lack of communications, (b) no protection against flooding,
(c) lack of macro- and on-farm drainage, (d) unmitigated effects of seasonal droughts, (e)
inadequate soil conservation practices, (f) lack of improved pastures, and (g) inappropriate
indigenous foliage clearing practices. The technical-productive problems facing the area
farmers were mainly linked to poor agricultural technology. The socio-economic problems
facing the region comprised: (i) conflicts over land ownership, (ii) very skewed distribution
of income, (iii) lack of investment capital, and (iv) community resistance to technological
innovations and government-sponsored programs.
10. To overcome these constraints and realize the agriculture potential of the regions, the
objectives of PRODERITH-II, as stated in the SAR, were to: (a) alleviate poverty; (b)
expand the rational exploitation of the tropical low lands; (c) increase agricultural
productivity and production; and (d) strengthen agricultural and farmers' institutions.
11. The project addressed the poverty alleviation objective by focusing on improving the
economic conditions of about 40,000 rural families through: (i) more efficient use of local
resources; and (ii) provision of improved infrastructure services. The second objective,
expansion of the rational use of tropical low lands, was addressed through the combined
use of technical, administrative and organizational interventions successfully tested under
PRODERITH-I. The third objective, increase production and productivity, was the



4
expected outcome all project activities. Finally, the fourth major objective, strengthening
of agricultural institutions and promotion of producers' involvement in O&M of
infrastructure, was pursued as a method to ensure the future sustainability of project
infrastructure.
12. These objectives were realistic, important to the Mexican tropical agriculture sector, and
consistent with Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Consequently, the objectives
were not modified during the implementation period (1986-1995).
C. ACHIIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
13. The project substantially achieved all the major objectives stated in the SAR. Project
design was appropriate for achieving these objectives, although the criteria for judging their
achievement was not clearly quantified in the SAR. During a supervision mission carried
out in November, 1994, the Bank and the government agreed on a set of key indicators to
monitor the achievement of the original project development objectives and to measure
progress in the implementation of physical targets. This set of indicators were monitored
for the project as a whole and for each subproject, as recommended in the SAR and
confirmed in the project mid-term review of 1992 (Tables SA, SB, and SC, Part II).
14. Economic Rate of Return (ERR), and Net Present Value (NPV). At appraisal, the
ERR for the project was estimated at 23.3 percent, based on the incremental value of crop
and livestock production over a 20-year period. Increased production was the expected
outcome of infrastructure improvements and dissemination of appropriate technology.
Secondary benefits from drains and roads were excluded in this ex-ante economic analysis,
even though these investments were expected to have considerable impact beyond the
immediate project beneficiaries. The original economic analysis accounted for the costs of
three proposed pilot projects (Isla Rodriguez Clara, Sierra de Tabasco and Bejuco) but not
for their expected benefits. Sensitivity analysis, carried out at appraisal, indicated that a 20
percent increase in project costs would reduce the ERR to 19 percent, while a 20 percent
decrease in project benefits would reduce the ERR to approximately 18 percent. The
combined effects of these higher costs and lower benefits, would result in an ERR of 14.5
percent, and a 3-year delay in achieving project benefits would also reduce the ERR to 14.5
percent.
15. The economic analysis carried out at the time of project completion shows an overall ERR
for the project of about 14.2 percent in the eight subproject areas, excluding the area of
Chiapas which was incorporated into the project only in 1994. This outcome was very
close to the 14.5 SAR projection for the delayed alternative of three years in achieving
project benefits (Table 9, Part II). At the subproject level, the economic analysis shows
wide variations in the ERR, as follows: Centro de Veracruz (21.5%) and El Bejuco
(19.1%) appear as the best performers, and Pujal-Coy (11.5%), Isla Rodriguez Clara
(11.4%) and Oriente de Yucatan (9.8%) as less successful ones. The NPV for the project,
estimated at a 10 percent discount rate, is $23.7 million. This value is considered
satisfactory although the two individual subprojects (Oriente de Yucatan and Isla
Rodriguez Clara) performed marginally (Table 9, Part II).



5
16. Poverty Alleviation. The project had a very substantial favorable impact on poverty
alleviation. An estimated 52,100 poor families benefited from the project, or 12,100 more
families than anticipated at appraisal. About 30,000 new direct jobs (6.5 million person
days of employment) were generated in the eight subproject areas. This represents a 16
percent increase over the 25,800 full time jobs targeted at appraisal. The income of rural
families grew by $1,220 per year, or approximately 37 percent in constant US Dollars of
1995, increasing from about $ 3,320 p.a. in 1986 to $4,540 p.a.in 19954 (Table 5A, Part
II). These data were obtained through the analysis of representative farm models combined
with the actual land use maps prepared by IMTA from satellite imagery interpretation
(Appendix F). Substantial community benefits were also achieved through the organization
of women's groups for productive projects, and urban improvements at participating
ejidos, which included water supply, gravel lined streets, and self-help housing
improvements (para. 46).
17. Expansion in the Rational Use of Tropical Low Lands. The project achieved positive
results in promoting more rational use of tropical low lands through the introduction of: (i)
sustainable soil and water conservation practices, covering 85,000 ha; (ii) the expansion of
tropical fruit cultivation by 15,000 ha; and (iii) improved pastures on about 300,000 ha.
These results can be considered satisfactory compared to SAR projections (Table 6A, 6C,
Part II and Appendix F).
18. Production and Productivity Growth. The SAR assumed that the project would remove
constraints to agricultural development in the selected areas, through drainage and road
development, and by encouraging the adoption of improved production practices. The area
under rainfed cropping (mainly staple grains) was to increase by about 216,000 ha,
primarily by substituting agricultural production for extensive livestock. At completion,
total cropped area in the eight subprojects increased by 55,000 ha, a 35 percent increase
over pre-project production levels, but substantially lower than the SAR estimates. Less
than expected growth in production area was observed in the case of rice, soybeans, and
mango, partly due to inappropriate crop choice at the project design stage and the land use
change in the Pujal-Coy subproject, where the growth in cropped area was much smaller
than anticipated (para. 29 and Table 6C, Part II). Significant productivity growth
occurred only in the case of sugarcane and pineapple. Productivity grew less than expected
at appraisal in the case of staple grains like maize, benas, sorghum, and rice (Table 6B, Part
II). Yield growth was much smaller than anticipated, due to the continuous declining
performance of the SARH extension services during project implementation and the
adverse impact of agricultural price policies (Table 6B, Part II).
19. As a result of the introduction of higher value crops, the value of production increased by
approximately 94 percent in the project area. The value of production increased from $121
million in 1986 to $235 million in 1995 (Table 6D, Part II). Fruit production accounts for
4. These estimates include the value of production for self-consumption (maize, beans, etc.), as well as the
value of the family labor involved in production. Farm models were prepared in FARMOD. For each new
direct job generated on-farm, an estimation of two additional jobs are to be generated off-farm level. This
ratio is typical of tropical agriculture production for fruits and vegetables.



6
$49 million of the $114 million net increase in production value in the project area,
reflecting land use changes towards higher value crops (tropical fruits, sugarcane, and
vegetables) and small incremental growth in cropped areas (Tables 6C and 6D, Part II).
20. For most crops contemplated in the SAR (cotton, bananas, tomato, pineapple, citrus,
melons, watermelons, sugarcane, and milk), the value of production grew by over 100
percent (Table 6D, Part II). However, the value of production for maize, beans and meat
grew only moderately, ranging from 21 to 83 percent, and there was little or no increment
in the case of mango, papaya, sorghum, rice, chile, soybeans, safflower, and tobacco. The
poor outcome observed in the case of these crops, can be explained by the combined effect
of the following factors: (i) smaller incremental cropped area; (ii) poor productivity gains
due to failures in the extension services; (iii) the climatic variations in rainfall patterns,
which is a natural condition of rainfed projects; and (iv) lack of incentives associated with
agricultural price policies that prevailed during project implementation.
21. The Strengthening of Agriculture and Farmer's Organizations which resulted from the
project was substantial (Table 5C, Part II). The main achievements in this area were: (i)
capacity building in IMTA and CNA; (ii) a significant increase in assisted or created
farmer's organizations; (iii) farmers' training, primarily during the 1992-94 period; and (iv)
successful organization of women's groups for productive projects.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22. The project was successful in achieving its development objectives, project outcomes are
expected to be sustainable, and implementation performance was satisfactory. However,
the success of the project was affected by several factors which, if addressed in a timely
manner, would probably have resulted in highly satisfactory implementation perfornance.
These factors are described below.
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
23. Two major financial crisis substantially affected project implementation, during its start-up
(1986-1989) and during its completion (1995). Both crisis affected project budget
allocations and, as a result, the implementation of the project was delayed by two years.
The hurricanes Gilbert and Cristian in 1988 and hurricanes Roxane and Opal in 1995 also
affected the project areas in the States of Tamaulipas, Chiapas, Yucatan, Tabasco, and
Veracruz, requiring emergency actions which resulted inexpected demands on government
funds resources that otherwise would have been allocated to the project. In addition,
several other economic factors created an unfavorable environment for private investments
in the agricultural sector by farmers and entrepreneurs. The most important of these
factors were the down-trend in international prices of agriculture commodities, and an
almost permanent crisis in the Mexican financial sector.



7
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24. The institutional and administrative arrangements for project implementation were unstable
and subject to frequent change. There was weak inter-institutional coordination between
the main implementing agency and other institutions such as INIFAP, BANRURAL,
ANAGSA, and RCRD, whose performance was declining at an accelerated rate. These
facts substantially affected the achievement of the third project objective of increasing
production and productivity, considering that project outcomes could have been much
better under more stable and effective institutional arrangements.
25. Project implementation was negatively affected by four changes in the main coordinating
agency: (i) CPNH, 1986-1987; (ii) IMTA, 1987-1991; and (iii) CNA, 1991-1995. In late
1994, responsibility over the project was shifted from SARH to SEMARNAP. The latest
change, affected CNA policy towards agriculture and led to implementation delays in 1995.
26. During the last decade, the agricultural sector was adversely affected by national monetary,
exchange rate, and agriculture price policies, the latter clearly reflected in wide variations in
input and output prices. These factors impacted on project performance as disincentives to
agriculture production, driving farmers to use low technology (low cost/ha) production
systems, which in turn led to lower productivity.
Factors Generally Subject to the Control of Implementing Agency (CPNH, IMTA, CNA)
27. Among the factors which negatively affected the project implementation and were generally
under the control of implementing agencies, the main ones are: (i) frequent changes in
project coordination during implementation; (ii) implementation delays; (iii) inadequate
budget allocations and execution; (iv) insufficient training of farmers to close the gap on
modern technology; (v) delays in selecting and purchasing machinery; and (vi) inaccurate
cost estimates at appraisal, which partly explains the large discrepancy between actual and
projected project cost.
28. Constant changes in the management of the project coordination unit is one of the most
important factors that affected the project. During nine years of implementation, the
project manager was changed five times.
29. Project cost in nominal terms was $115.4 million, compared to $217.5 million estimated at
appraisal (Tables 8 - A and B, Part II). In real terms (1995 constant US Doliars) total
project cost was $143.2 million, or about 60 percent below SAR estimates (Table 8C, Part
II). This substantial cost underrun resulted in less Bank financing and consequently partial
loan cancellation. The major causes of this cost underrun are: (i) inadequate preparation
and implementation of Pujal Coy-II subproject; in fact, the design of the Pujal Coy-Il
subproject, equivalent to 40 percent of total project cost at appraisal, was changed from
agriculture to lifestock, resulting in substantial infrastructure cost savings; (ii) availability of
additional funds from external sources for infrastructure implementation, not anticipated at
appraisal; (iii) project savings due to efficient procurement of civil works and improved
engineering (para. 28); (iv) two major Peso devaluations during 1986-1987 and 1994-1995,



8
leading to corresponding reductions in loan disbursements; and (v) exclusion of machinery
from Bank financing due to delays in selection and procurement.
30. The infusion of additional funds from external sources was particularly evident in the case
of roads, where funds from PEMEX and state governments were used to execute a
substantial part of the major roads program, resulting in significant savings in the project
budget. These savings perrmitted the inclusion in the project of the Costa de Chiapas and
Margaritas-Comitan subprojects in Chiapas, in 1994. In addition, the two major Peso
devaluations during 1986-1987 and 1994-1995, resulted in substantial reductions in
disbursements due to the loss in value of the Peso.
31. The two-year implementation delay5 experienced by the project was mainly a result of: (i)
insufficient budget allocations on the part of the government, and delays in releasing budget
funds particularly during project start-up period (1987-1989); (ii) accelerated deterioration
in the provision of complementary agriculture services, including extension, research, and
credit, by RCRD, INIFAP, and BANRURAL; and (iii) frequent changes in project
management.
32. Low budget allocation and the slow release of budget to the decentralized units in the field
affected the project implementation. This condition was particularly pronounced in the
year 1995.
33. The farmers' training program was unevenly carried out. During the project start-up
period (1986-90), training was limited due to the accelerated deterioration of the RCRD.
The project's best implementation phase was during the 1991-94 period, with the creation
and valuable contributions from the UCTs. Unfortunately, in 1995, the benefits from the
UCTs ceased, due to institutional changes which affected the CNA.
34. The selection and purchasing machinery was another weak point in PRODERITH-IH. In
this context, two groups of machinery should be highlighted: (i) soil conservation and
drainage machinery (terracing plows, "de-rocking", and open ditch trenchers); and (ii)
infrastructure maintenance equipment (for roads, drains, and levees). During the last four
Bank supervision missions, this problem was constantly brought to the attention of CNA.
However, unwillingness to provide equipment for producer groups was an old bias in
SARH carried over to CNA, since both agencies tend to rely excessively on contractors to
perform minor on-farm and maintenance works, rather than creating a sustainable capacity
among beneficiaries to do the maintenance under a self-sustainable basis.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILlTY
35. It is likely that the four main objectives achieved by the project will be sustainable, in view
of the following developments: (i) improved institutional conditions; (ii) strong
5. The SAR anticipated the risk of a three-year delay in project implementation that could affect the benefits
stream (SAR para. 3.17).



9
commitment on the part of project beneficiaries and local authorities; and (iii) substantial
private investment in the project areas.
36. CNA is a now stable institution, with competent, well trained, and relatively well paid staff.
CNA has maitained its lasting commitment to the project by transforming the project unit
into a permanent organization for the Management of Rainfed Development (Gerencia de
Distrito de Temporal Tecnificado - GDTT), as part of the Subdirectorate General of
Operations. CNA intends to continue to support the project in the areas of policy,
management, and technical assistance, with its own funds, and will procure project
machinery under its 1996 budget.
37. Project beneficiaries perceive the social and economic impact of the project to be
substantial. Similar appreciation is expressed by state and municipal governments,
particularly in the states of Yucatan, Tabasco, Veracruz, San Luis Potosi, Tamaulipas and
Nayarit. This represents a strong local base for the activities established by the project,
which is likely to ensure that the project objectives will continue to be sustained over time.
38. Private investments in the subproject areas, from both entrepreneurs and ejidos,
demonstrate a strong commitment to sustainable production in the future. Most notably,
these investments were made in the states of Tabasco, Veracruz, Nayarit, and Tamaulipas
in the development of tropical fruit orchards (citrus, bananas, pineapples), permanent crops
(i.e. sugar cane), and increases in livestock and aquaculture. Based on satellite imagery
analyzed together with cost data from farm models, total private on-farm investment in the
project area was estimated at over $ 200 million. The value of private off-farm investment
was not calculated, but is also significant, particularly in packing, processing and marketing
fruits and perishable produce and other agroindustry activities. In both cases, public
financed infrastructure provision proved a major incentive for private investment.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
39. Over all, the Bank performance was satisfactory. Its main strengths were: (a) appropriate
response to a shift in government sector policy towards investments in rainfed agriculture
in the poor Southern states; (b) effective involvement and assistance in project preparation
and redirection of one of the eight subprojects (Pujal-Coy) from agriculture to livestock
production; and (c) efficient use of the lessons learned from the successful results of the
innovative pilot project.
40. Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal Performance were satisfactory. All three
stages benefited substantially from the experience of PRODERITH-I, especially with
respect to design improvements and faster project processing. The Bank was responsive in
providing the best assistance and expertise on all relevant aspects (technical, financial,
economical, commercial, institutional, environmental, and social). The two weak areas in
Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal were: (i) not agreeing with the
Borrower upon a clear set of indicators to monitor the project development objectives; and
(ii) failing to include in project design a specific line of credit targeted to small farmers. In
the absence of such component, small farmers in the project area did not have access to



10
rural credit for on-farm investments, leading to lower production growth rates. The first
problem was corrected at a late stage of project implementation, in 1994, when the new
task manager began to plan the prepartion of the ICR. At that time, the Bank agreed with
CNA on specific monitoring indicators that were applied as of the 1993 project progress
report (Tables 5A, 5B, and 5C, Part II).
41. Supervision performance by the Bank was satisfactory. Project implementation basically
followed the SAR, without deviations from Bank policies and procedures. Implementation
progress reporting was adequate. Supervision staff was appropriate in terms of quantity
and quality, and the skill-mix was satisfactory (Tables 11 and 12, Part II). Nevertheless,
there were shortcomings in Bank supervision during the two start-up years of the project,
when Mexico was into a deep economical crisis and the project implementation was very
slow. During that time, project supervision should have been more intesive. After 1990,
when implementation began to accelerate, the supervision missions were fully appropriate.
During the mid-term review of 1992, the Bank and the Borrower agreed upon minor
adjustments to project design, primarily related to quantities of infrastructure (roads,
drains, levees, and related structures), required in view of CNA agreements with the states
and PEMEX for infrastructure financing.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42. Although the Borrower was unable to maintain stable project management, its
implementation performance was satisfactory. However, the two-year delay in project
completion can be attributed, in part, to the institutional instability which permeated project
implementation. The project executing agency was changed by three administrative
reforms, from the CPNH in 1986-87, to the IMTA in 1987-89, and later to the CNA in
1990-95. Overall project responsibility was shifted from the SARH in 1986-94 to the
SEMARNAP in 1994-95. In total, there were five changes in the management of the
project unit. The main strength of the Borrower's performance was the solid construction
expertise and implementation capacity of SARH and CNA, accumulated over their many
years of experience with agricultural infrastructure projects. The implementation of the
project was carried out economically and almost on schedule, except during the initial and
final stages (1986-89 and 1995), when government-imposed investment restrictions
delayed project implementation and completion. The best performance was during the
period 1990-94.
43. Project management responsible for implementing the infrastructure component was
effective. However, it was less effective in the organization of the farmers' and
beneficiaries' into associations to take over O&M functions, carry out procurement of
machinery to support these functions in timely manner, and renewing of UCTs contracts in
1995, with the most significant procurement not taking place until nearing project
completion. The resistance to purchasing machinery is an old bias in SARH and CNA, as
they prefer to rely mostly on contractors for O&M rather than create the necessary capacity
among the beneficiaries to perform these functions (para. 32). This was a main issue at the
time of subprojects completion, when beneficiaries had to handle O&M with their own
means.



11
44. Projects' preparation by the Borrower was less than satisfactory in one of the eight
subprojects, Pujal-Coy II. The original subproject design contemplated a full agriculture
development where the prevailing natural conditions (semi-arid zone with scattered pattern
of rain fall distribution), complicated ownership, and socio-economic characteristics, lent
themselves more to livestock (beef and dairy cattle, goats and sheep). Low-cost
adjustments to the design of the subproject were made after a three-year delay, with Bank
assistance. However, this design error led to the maintenance of very small livestock units
(of 10 ha each, on average) for an extended period of time and resulted in much lower
project investment in Pujal-Coy II (about 20% less) than originally anticipated at appraisal
(Table 8C, Part II and para. 29).
45. As in most of Bank operations in Mexico, timely availability of budgeted funds was also a
problem during the entire project implementation period, resulting in delays in
implementation schedules and so in benefits. This risk was anticipated at appraisal (SAR
para. 3.22).
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46. The project made substantial contributions to poverty alleviation by: (i) generating
approximately 30,000 new direct jobs in its subprojects;6 (ii) increasing farmers income by
over $50 million7 equivalent per year, through improved agriculture production; (iii)
introducing small cottage industries and backyard fruit orchards and domestic animal
production managed by women's groups in poor rural communities; and (iv) improving
welfare in rural communities through better infrastructure, especially roads and drainage
networks. Complementary project activities also contributed to poverty alleviation, such as
organization of women's groups for productive projects, and urban improvements in the
participating ejidos (including water supply, self-help home improvement, and street
rehabilitation).
47. By making land suitable for agricultural production and providing extension, training, and
technology transfer services, the project contributed to expand the rational use of land,
achieving substantial increase in tropical fruit production (notably bananas, citrus, and
pineapples -- about 15,000 ha), as well as improved pastures (about 300,000 ha) and
livestock. Tropical soil conservation practices were introduced through extension, with a
potential impact on over 85,000 ha.
48. Production increased substantially as a result of the project. Expansion of production
area averaged 35 percent for all crops, reaching over 90 percent for some crops, such as
beans, cotton, pineapple, citrus, and banana. Less than expected growth in production area
was observed in the case of rice, soybeans, and mango, partly due to imperfect crop choice
6  The total number of jobs generated by the project is estimated at 54,400, of which some 30,000 represent
direct incremental jobs created by the project.
7 The project genertated an estimated $25 million in incremental earnings for family labor and $25 million
in increased net farm income.



12
at the project design stage and the land use change in the Pujal-Coy subproject (Table 6C,
Part II). As a result of the introduction of higher value crops, the value of production
increased by approximately 93 percent in the project area, reaching over 100 percent for
several crops. Significant productivity growth occurred only in the case of sugarcane and
pineapple. Overall, productivity growth was modest, compared to appraisal targets, partly
due to unsatisfactory provision of agriculture services which delayed techmology transfer
and the adverse impact of agriculture price policies.
49. The strengthening of agriculture organizations was substantially achieved through the
installation of INIFAP laboratories, capacity building at IMTA and at the states, and
institutional development of CNA. The promotion of farmers' organizations to take over
the O&M functions is still on-going, along with purchase of relevant machinery, which has
been provided for in the 1996 CNA budget.
50. Project social and economic impacts at municipal level was significant, benefitting a
substantial part of the rural population. In this respect, the most favorable outcomes were:
(i) a substantial growth in rural employment (Table 5F, Part II); (ii) a reduction in
migration flows away for the project area; and (iii) a significant increase in rural family
income (Table 9A). Social impact at the state level are smaller, given the relatively small
size of the subproject areas compared to the total state area and population. However,
since the typical 1/2 ratio of on-farm to off-farm jobs for tropical agriculture is applicable
to the project, it is reasonable to state that the project generated substantial benefits also at
the state and national levels. More impoitantly, the successful project experience suggests
that the subproject models that were implemented could be replicated and expanded in the
Southern Mexican states, which have an estimated underutilized area of over 10 million
hectares.
5 1. The project had many positive results in its areas of influence, as well as outside the
subproject perimeters. For example, the construction of all-weather gravel road network,
complemented with bridges, culverts, and "wet-crossings" (dutch fords), had very positive
effects on the commercial as well as social conditions of the beneficiaries. The roads
facilitated the transport of agriculture products from the subproject areas to market places,
and enabled the necessary inputs to be brought to the farms, making transportation reliable
and cost effective. The roads also enabled the growth and improvement of welfare of the
poor rural communities, by facilitating the provision of education, medical, and reliable
transportation services to the rural population. The ecological environment has also
improved with the project. Drainage systems and flood protection facilities alleviated
settlement flooding, minimizing standing water in the fields, swampy conditions, and water
logging. These improvements resulted in a reduction of water-related diseases, which have
plaged the population for many years.
52. Interviews with project beneficiaries indicate their very positive appreciation for the project
outcomes, which are viewed as having improved substantially their income and welfare
conditions. It is remarkable to note the contrast between the current situation in the
subproject areas with that of the neighboring areas with respect to family stability, which
was enhanced in the project areas due to reduced out-migration. This was achieved
primarily because a large number of new sustainable jobs have been generated by the



13
project, absorbing a substantial part of the economical active population (Table 5F, Part
II).
53. The project also generated substantial private investments in the relevant subproject areas.
The investments were both in on-farm (establishing tropical fruit orchards, planting fruit
trees, constructing aquaculture facilities and improving pastures) and off-farm (developing
agroindustries and tropical fruit packing houses). Private entrepreneurs, small farmers, and
ejidatarios invested an estimated $200 million in on-farm activities during the 1990-95
period. This is an outstanding achievement, considering the adverse financial environment
during the project implementation period and the lack of a credit line in the project.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
54. Two main issues must be addressed when considering future operations for development of
tropical agriculture in Mexico. First, whether or not the Bank should have another
operation to assist investments in tropical agriculture and rural development in the
Southern states; and, second, what should be the institutional framework and which
implementing agencies should be involved, given the recent major institutional changes in
Mexico, and taking into account the PRODERITH-II experience. The answer to the first
question, should be yes, considering two factors: (a) the positive economical and social
results achieved under PRODERITH-I and II; and (b) the fact that much still needs to be
done, especially in Southern states, where poverty alleviation in rural areas is a high
priority, and where an estimated 10 million ha suitable for intensive rainfed agriculture
remain underutilized. On the issue of appropriate institutional framework, the
PRODERITH experience indicates that future operations should be centered at the state
level, supported by timely interventions of the relevant technical agencies operating at
federal and state levels, throughout the project cycle.
55. Given the recent SARH fragmentation, which occurred in late 1994, into SAGARD and
SEMARNAP, and the reduced involvement of CNA in agriculture, an appropriate
institutional framework for future operations should probably involve a "multi-agency"
implementing body, centered at the state level. This framework would have to include: the
CNA, in case major hydraulic infrastructure is contemplated; the Fideicomiso de Riesgo
Compartido (FIRCO) or another federal government agency for coordination, and the
relevant states as major actors in the implementing work. Another possibility would be to
assign the coordination function to an appropriate federal agency operating within
SAGARD, providing great flexibility to other implementing agencies at federal, state, and
municipal levels together with farmers' organizations and qualified NGO's. Under both
options, project planning and implementing should involve substantial participation at local
level. Rural credit for on-farm investments should also be provided through a targeted line
of credit or other appropriate mechanism. The above operational considerations relate to all
agriculture and rural development projects in Mexico, and in particular the ones located in
the poor Southern states. The above operational considerations relate to all agriculture and
rural development projects in Mexico, and in particular the ones located in the poor
Southern states. These operational considerations are relevant to all agriculture and rural



14
development projects in Mexico and, in particular, to those located in the poor Southern
states.
56. Another important operational issue related to the channeling Bank funds. The current
procedures mandates that foreign exchange disbursed by the Bank for specific projects,
flows from NAFIN to the Finance Ministry (Secretaria de Hacienday Credito P0blico -
SHCP) without any link to project implementing agencies. Under these procedures, there
is almost no incentive for the implementing agencies to carry-out Bank financed projects.
On the contrary, a disincentive is created, since the implementing agencies have to comply
with what they perceive as cumbersome Bank procedures and agreed-upon implementation
standards and conditionalities, without receiving any additional funds that they can manage
directly. Therefore, three main problems remain unsolved: (i) chronic underbudgeting for
Bank projects by implementing agencies; (ii) delays in the original implementation
schedules due to lack of funds; and (iii) failure of counterpart agencies to comply with
agreed project conditionalities. If instead, Bank loans would represent incremental funds
for implementing agencies, there would be sufficient incentives for rapid execution and
disbursements. Provision of funds from the Special Accounts set up in connection with
Bank loand, directly to the relevant implementing agencies, would help achieve similar
objectives. This is even more relevant considering the new GOM policy of substantially
increasing the participation of the states in the implementation of development projects.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57. The main lessons learned from PRODERITH-I1 that are relevant to the preparation of
future projects, include:
*  project design based on a successful pilot experiment leads to better choice and
design of subprojects, and fosters well targeted government-financed investments,
which in turn can represent a valuable contribution to an overall poverty reduction
strategy;
*  project flow of funds and Bank disbursements can be improved through priority
scheduling of project investments and by the delegation of greater authority over
the management of project funds to the project executing agencies;
*  the organization of local producers, established as a priority from the very
beginning of the project, creates a sustainable basis for O&M of project
infrastructure and contributes to overall project success and sustainability;
*  promotion and involvement of private sector investments in tropical agriculture is
especially desirable in the case of fruits and perishable products, given their specific
technology, delicate handling, packing, marketing, and high costs for industrial
processing; the effort to promote private investment should be part of project
design from the outset;



15
*  working more closely with state authorities, mitigates the adverse effects caused by
excessive federal govermment centralization and constant changes in project
management. State involvement in project design and implementation can be
enhanced by: (a) seeking state commitment to the project at the design stage; and
(b) leaving a fair amount of decision-making to the states, throughout the project
cycle;
*  the inclusion of livestock (double purpose cattle, goats, and sheep) and the
improvement of pastures, proves to be an important and complementary activity to
agriculture in tropical areas, and may contribute significantly to farm income
growth;
*  there is need to pay closer attention to the O&M of infrastructure, by promoting
appropriate local organization to respond for it, through the provision of training,
strengthened administrative capacity, appropriate machinery mix, and appropriate
instruments to collect fees to ensure self sufficient O&M; to this end, it is more
effective to rely on producer's organizations for O&M than to use outside
contractors;
*  project management instability at the federal level negatively affects project
implementation performance, and should be minimized through decentralization of
most implementation functions to the state level and closer project supervision; and,
*  the availability of credit accelerates on-farm investments, specially for poor farmers,
such as the majority of the farmers settled in the ejidos of the Southem states
covered by PRODERITH-II. Project design did not include a line of credit to
farmers, because it assumed that credit from other sources would be available. This
proved not to be the case, and project outcomes suggest that production growth
could have been much higher and occurred earlier in the project cycle, if credit was
available.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-i (LOAN 2658-ME)
16
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2658-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-i (LOAN 2658-ME)
17
II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables
1.   Summary of Assesments    ................ 18
2.  Related Bank Loans ............                                                             19
3.      Project Timetable and Loan Data / Project Schedule .....                 ...........  20
4.      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements                    ....     ......  21
5.      A. Project Development Objectives  .........                  ...................  22
B. Project Physical Implementation Targets ......                 ................  23
C. Project Physical Implementation Targets .......                 ...............  24
D. Physical Construction Targets    .........                ...................  25
E. Subproject Area Extension Coverage at Full Development                     ....   26
F. Project Impact Over Rural Job Generation                  .....       ...........  27
6.      Al. Physical Area by Subproject, Without Project  ......                  ..........  28
A2. Land Use Changes                    .................................. 28
B. Project Benefits - Project Impact on Crop Yields .....                ...........  29
C. Project Benefits - Project Impact on Production Areas   ....               ......  30
D. Project Benefits - Project Impact on Crop Production    ....               ......  31
7.      Studies Included in the Project             .........         ...................  32
8.      A. Project Cost              ........................................ 33
B. Project Financing  ........................................ 33
C. Total Project Cost Summary              .........         ...................  34
9.      Financial and Economic Analysis             .........         ...................  35
10.   Status of Legal Covenants .               .................................. 36
11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements    .....                    ...........  38
12.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................. 39
13.    Bank Resources: Missions   .................................. 40



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Substantial         Partial            Negliible        Not applicable
A. Achbievement of objecftves
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Oender concems 
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (specify)
Likely           UniIkely                     Uncertain
B. Project sustainablllty                             i
Highly          Satisfbetory                   Deficient
satisfactory
C. Bank performance
Identificationl
Prepmtrion assistance 
Appraisal
Supervision__
D. Borrower performance
Prepastion                                _
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly          Satisfactory      Unsatsfactory           Higbly
satisfactory                                          _untisactory
E. Amessment of outcomne



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
19
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Approval/
Loan Title/No.            Purpose         Amount        Status                  Comments
PRECEDING            Tropical agricultural   1978,   Closed in 1984  Successful project with follow up
OPERATIONS:           development           $56 M                    (PRODERITH II). PCR issued in
PRODERITH I                                                         December, 1985
1553-ME
Chiapas Agricultural   Tropical agricultural   1985,   Closed in 1993  Successful project on 64% of area; 36% of
Development         development           $90 M                    the loan amount canceled in 1988 due to
2526-ME                                                          weak management and lack of counterpart
funds. PCR issued in December, 1994
Chiapas           Rural roads          1985,      Closed in 1991  95% of loan amount canceled in 1988
Rural Roads                              $2Mdue to changed goverrnment priorities for
2525-ME                                 $22 M                     the sctor
PROCATI            Agriculture           1986,     Closed in 1993  PCR issued in June, 1994
2859-ME           development and        $20 M
extension
FOLLOWING            Agricultural credit   1987,     Closed in 1991 PCR issued in December, 1994
OPERATIONS:                                $400 M
Ninth Agricultural
2837-ME
First Agricultural Sector    Agricultural policy  1988,  Closed in 1990  Operation completed successfully; PCR
Adjustment         reforms               $300 M                    issued in March, 1993
2918-ME
Decentralization and Regional Poverty alleviation  1991,    Closed in 1995  No major problems; follow up project
Development         program in 4 of the    $350 M                  under implementation. ICR under
3310-ME           poorest states                                  preparation
Second Agricultural Sector   Continuing         1991,     Closed in 1993  Successfully completed. ICR issued in
Adjustment         agricultural policy   $400 M                    June, 1995
3357-ME           reforms
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Irrigation and drainage 1991,  Under        Budgetary difficulties but no other major
3419-ME                                 $400 M    implementation problem.
Agricultural Technology    Agricultural research   1992,  Under         Significant budgetary and institutional
3465-ME           and extension         $150 M    implementation problems.
On Farm and Minor Irrigation  Irrigation         1994,      Under          Budgetary difficulties but no other major
Networks Improvement    infrastructure        $200 M    implementation problem.
3704-ME           improvements through
cost-sharing
Second Decentralization and  Continue poverty   1994,      Under          No major problem.
Regional Development    alleviation program in  $500 M    implementation
3790-ME           8 poor states
Rainfed Areas Development  Improve agriculture    1994,   Under           Budgetary difficulties but no other major
3778-ME           productivity          $85 M     implementation problem.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE AND LOAN DATA
Steps in project      Date planned            Date actual                 Comments
cycle
A feasibility study, prepared by
GOM in1984, built upon the success
1984                  1984           of pilot PRODERTH I
Preparation              April, 1985            April, 1985
Appraisal                June, 1985             June, 1985
Negotiations            January, 1986          January, 1986
Board presentation      March, 1986           March 4, 1986
Signing                  April, 1986           April 9, 1986
Effectiveness            June, 1986            July 8, 1986
Project completion  December 31, 1993   December 31, 1995  Implementation delays due to
budget constraints
Loan closing         December 31, 1993   December 31, 1995  July 7,93 - Ist Amendm: 31/12/94
Oct. 28,94 - 2nd
Amendm.:31/12/95
Project Schedule 1
Quarter  ILIILL ~L            [  L  L341~34ILL
Year    1984   1985  1986   87-93  1994    1995 1996
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal Mission
Negotiations
Board Approval
Signature Date
Date of Effectiveness
Completion Date                                   >>>>>>>>>>>>>g
Closing Date                                       l>>>>>>>>>>>1
Year   1984   1985   1986   87/93  1994   1995   1996
QuarterI 131414   2  11       2|3|4 1|2|3|4 1|2|3|4 1|2|3|4
In 1993, at the time of the first extension of the closing date, the Bank advised the government that since
more time would be required to complete the project, a second closing date extension would be
contemplated, taking into account progress made during the first year's extension. CNA complied with the
agreed implementation plan for 1994 and made the appropriate budget allocation for 1995, therefore
justifying the second closing date extension.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
21
Scheduled:                      Slippage:  >>>>                  Actual: *
TABLE 4: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL LOAN
DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank FY                 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 19961
(i) Appraisal estimate               1.0    9.0    22.0   38.0   57.0    76.0    92.0   104.0  109.0   109.0   109.0
(ii) Appraisal estimate minus
cancellations                     1.0    9.0    22.0    22.0   36.0   50.0    64.0    80.2   88.3    88.3    88.3
(iii) Actual                         0.0    9.9    15.1    17.2   19.6   23.4    29.0   41.5   52.6   78.3    n8.3
(iv) Actual ass%/of(i)              0      110      69      45      34      31      32      40      48      72      81
(v) Actual as % of (ii)             0      110      69      78      54      47      45      52      60      89     100
1/ $20.7 million were canceled from the loan on August 10, 1988.
2/ The final disbursement was made on May 17, 1996.



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH I (Loan 2658-ME)
22
TABLE 5A
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
In*wrwgs                                                                                              .. - ..................... = .....
Development Plans                    Communities                                  64        73                   114
PO,,T                ......... ,., .E                                                 '            ":" "        ". ssisted Families  No.  40,000  40,000  52,100  130  130
-BLV~AIION              .       ... .B.-' "  ddibional Employment        Man-Days               6 700 000      6,700,000  6,500,000        97         97
fraestructure Improvement Coverage (a)  Ha.                      147,000        332,000   482,300        328        145
tersectorialMovilization of Services     No. of communities        NA                          963
i amers' Income Increase                 US$                        NA                        1,2201
gnc..... ultural Use                         T1000 H-a.            278                   305       209         75         69
AN1   0N~~kA1 .ONAL  Pasture Use                                     1000 Ha.                   517            538        679        131        126
,,..NuVegetation                    1000 Ha.                  NA         NA               369
erUses                                 I _________000_Ha.         NA         NA              144
... B .r - ' B B, B B B ................. B Meat  ... Tons        25,316         26,348    28,482         113       108
ik                                      1000 Liters               57,042         57,042     19,397        34         34
n..                                      i Fruit  1000 Tons           217            539        574       265        106
,,w, ;^aPf   rr y^Bag lBB5B aaffa Vegetables  1000 Tons                 20            120         62       310         52
ns                                     1000 Tons                   423            473        250         59        53
~II~QVI~ICTII~tTYAND  Suar (b)                                  1 000 Tons                   7259                     183        255       311
.  . 1 cCaacssava                          1000 Tons                   104                         1          1
..*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*  Cacao                   lOOO~~~1000Tons               3                       1.1        42
* .... . .*****..... a   B {afaBfi2  f ff,f     a  a oney          1000  Tons                 NA                           3
NAand MTA (training)                     Man-Hours                  NA            64,000     54,220                   85
AP laboratory improvements             USD 1000                  NA
oduces'Organizations:                                              NA
*Organizations Assisted                 NO.                        NA                 5        78                  1560
_  Produces Training                     Man-Hours                  NA           167,000   203,652                   122
f  armer Comunicat. Organizat. Established  o.                      NA               248        109                   44
Social Organization (Health, Education,                             NA
_ Women, etc)Established)                 o.                       NA               104        1801                 173
(a) Additional funds from other sources were made avaflable to the project for infrastructure investments, thus significantly reducing Bank
financing for infrastructure.
(b) 83 Kg. of sugar per ton of cane.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH 1I (Loan 2658-ME)
23
TABLE1SB
PROJECr PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
Roads                 Km             1,500          1,048      1,393        93        133
Drins                 Km.              700            844       489         70         58
bfracatucture      Structures             No.            1,400            921       699         50         76
Construction 1/      Input Storage         1000 Tons        109            137         35         32        26
Other Storage         Unit           NA                16        12                    75
O&M Facilities        N                  8              3                    0          0
.Office Complexes     N.                 2              2                     0         0
OnFamDrinage     I1000 Ha.          36     ~       33        7'8j       22 ~    241
_   On-Farm Land     Soil Conservation      1000 Ha.        4735           53.2      8501        1792      1601
_IgilI~C            Treatment 2/             d Clearing         1000 Ha.       NA
Smoothing             1000 Ha.          60             54       12.6        21         23
_Road O&M             No.               120                        1          1
achinery 3/        Drain O&M             No.             NA
On-Farm Drains        No.            NA
_.........                          Soil Consrvation      No.            NA
Agricultural Module    o             NA                24        30                   125
Livestock Module      No.            NA                20        85                  425
Pigs Module           No.            NA                22         3                    14
erlnfraestructure / Foods Blending Plant    Plant       NA                 1         1                  100
_Ifrestructurc I/ Molasses Center     No.             NA               13          3                   23
_  MolassesTank     No.            NA                 1          1                  100
Trench Silos         N.             NA                20         4                    20
pingPlant          o.            NA                12         3                    25
ScuacultureU Unit                   NA                 I         1                  100
1/ Infrastructure quantites were adjusted from SAR estmates during implementabon on the basis of the final designs.
Therefore, comparison between SAR and actual figures are not very useful.
2/ Completion of On-farm drainage is still pending to be done by the users; land smoothing was not required to the same
extent as estimated at appraisal.
3/ Machinery is under biddng in 1996.



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH n (Loan 2658-ME)
24
TABLE SC
PROJECT PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS I/
Extension Support               Man-Years           85            85         85       100        100
Strengthening       Farmer Organization Assisted     No.               NA             170       170        NA        100
Agncuut ltral,   Farmer  Extention Vehicles (vehicles))  No.           360            360        42         12        12
and Research        Research Support                 Man-Years         195            195        105        54        54
.Organizations      Vehicles/Research 2/             No.                                          0
Laboratories Equipment          US Dollars                      1,100     2,500                 227
Mass Media Support              No.                NA            NA         NA        NA        NA
COVI:RAoZ  ~Formal                                     Man-months         489            489       414         85        85
C(DON~W~    Training  SIn-Service                    Man-months        480            480       480        100       100
New Staff                       Man-months         600           600        200        33        33
.For Producers                  Man-months        1,500         1,500      1,500       100       100
Subprojects (Gen)               No.                  4             4                  100       100
Studies              etNew Pilot Areas              No                                            5        100       100
.Marketing Studies              No.                  3             31         3       100        100
Expatriate Local    USDA/Soil Conserv. Service       Man-Years8                         8       17.5       219       2191
aAssistance    FAO TMan-Years                                  5.5            5.5       5.5       100 
Technical AssistanceTFA m Local Expatr. Consul.  I-Y                                J.      1.5       100[      IO
1/ Even though the total incremental area under cultivation is smaller than anticipated at appraisal, the total incremental
value of production and the number of jobs generated, is substantially higher. This outcome reflects a shift to
higher value crops (e.g. vegetables and tropical fruits), from grains. In other words, the inventory of crops planned
at appraisal was significantly changed during implementation, with beneficial results.
21 Not Bank financed.



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH r 1 (Loan 2658-ME)
25
TABLE 5D
PHYSICAL CONSTRUCTION TARGETS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .. .... ...
-                                                                                              I 
jal Coy n                                      216        379       20,000      30,000    52,030
entro de Veracruz                               108         25       3,000       5,000        500
Tesechoac6in                                      27        47        3,000       2,500         0
Zanapa-Tonala                              254         89       5,000      10,000     10,000
ente de Yucatan                                170          0           0       5,453          0
ejuco                                           103        106       2,000       2,500     1I,500
Sierra                                          44        123       2,546       7,700      3,637
Ia Rodnguez Clara                                97         75           0       5,700          0
Total Prodenth                                   1019       844       35546       68853      67667
d .X-1gWI                                                                                                 ACffJE__ED ?N?t,~_$ 21gSz
PujalCoyll                   105         56     18,000          0    42,494      6,819          49          15         21          0        142         13
Centro de Veracruz           189         51     12,000      3,190      8,951      1,095        175         204        100        106        179       219
Tesechoacin                   84         86          0        900      3828          0         311         183          0         30        153
Zanapa-Tonala                104        148          0      1,200      9156        150          41         166                    24         92          2
Oriente de Yucatan           188          0      5,000          0      5496        880         111                    100                   101
Bejuco                       104         40          0          0      1130          0         101          38          0          0         45         0
LA Sierra                     67        118          0      2,546      7,730      3,637        152          96                   100        100        100
Isla Rodriguez Clara          40          0          0          0         0          0          41           0          0                     0
Total Proderith              881        499    35,000       7,836    78,785    12,581           86          59         26         22        114         19|
1/ In addition to the Proderith subprojects, infiastructure works were caried out in Chiapas that were not contemplated at
appraisal these comprise 70 km of roads and 74 km of drains in Tapachula and Margaritas.
2/ Inrasructure quantities were adjusted friom SAR estimates during implementation on the basis of the final designs.
Therefore, comparison between SAR and actual figures are not very useful.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH n (Loa 2658-ME)
26
TABLESE
SUBPROJECT AREA EXTENSION COVERAGE AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
WX  g  ffi.-. ' ~~~~~~a                                                            ra.,r
..  ...- ...-. -.
PujalCoyll                              276.5       240.4      13500        6529         64           12         21          33       4320        7285         211         198
Centro Veracnrz                          70.2        63.9       5500       11400          25           6          8          14       2808        4564         220        814
Tesechoacan                              16.4        15.9        900        2520          11           3          7          10       1491        1590          82        252
pa-Tonali                            96.0       94.8       2600        5570          23          12           7          19       4174       4989         113         293
Oriente Yucatan (c)                     335.3       420.6      14340      21100          41            7          9          16       8178       26288         350        1319
Subtotal                       794.4       8356       368401      47119         1641         401         52r        92        4844       9083         225         512
El Bejuco                                24.2        23.8                  3600                        7          8          15                   1587                    240
Sierra                                24.1        28.3                   1391                       7          5          12                   2358                     116
Isla Rodriguez Clara                     13.5        13.5                                                                           -
Subtotal                      61.81      65.6          OT       4991           1         141         131        271          C       243(018
|       ~~~Tota Proderith      |     856.21      901.21    368401       521101        1641         541         651       119|       48441       75731       2251        4381



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH4-I (Loan 2658-ME)
27
TABLE SF
PROJECT IMPACT OVER RURAL JOB GENERATION
(in thousands)
POPULATION                               JOB GENERATION BY PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS  STATES                 S AR 1/           A C T U AL 2/   GROWTH (%)   ACTUAL   TOTAL
Total     Rural    Total       Rural    Total      Rural   EARP 3/        JOBS 4/      %  5/
Centro de Veracruz    Ver.            47.8      39.8      55.7      47.3       16.5      18.8         23.7         5.1          22
Isla Rodriguez Clara   Ver.            4.3       4.2       6.2        6.3      44.2      50.0          3.2         1.7          54
Techechoacan          Ver.             8.2       5.3      10.6        8.4      29.3      58.5          4.2         4.2         100
Subtotal   Ver.      1     60.3       49.3      72.5      62.0      20.2       25.8        31.0         11.0         35
LaSierra           J Tab.             22.9      15.1      23.4       16.4       2.2       8.6          8.2         8.8         107
Zanapa-Tonala      j Tab              27.4      20.6j     32.6      26.5       19.0      28.611       13.31        6.2          47
Subtotal    Tab.           50.3       3571      56.0      42.9       11.3      20.2        21.5[        15.01        70
El Bejuco             Nay.            14.1       8.1      19.8       13.7      40.4      69.1          6.9                      57
Pujal-CoyII         SP,Tam,Ver       213.3      47.4     282.7      152.6      32.5     221.9         763         16.6          22
Oriente de YucatAn    Yuc.            84.4      41.9      88.7      44.3        5.1       5.7         222          7.9          36
1/1985
2/1992
3/ Estimate Economic Active Rural Population (WARP) in 1992.
4/Incremental direct jobs generated by the project at subproject sites are estimated in 30,000. However, the total number ofjobs created
by the project is 54,400 taking into account off-site employment
5/ Percentage ofjobs generated in relation to EARP in rural areas.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERllH   (LaPM 2658-ME)
21
TABLE 
Al- L11 Use WMlOUT Psjedt (197S4K) 1/
Oh)0
'CROP & PRUIT                  LIVESTOCK                        TOTAL_
Sobpojedt               SAR   REAL (a) Diftnec |  SAR          REAL  Difaacc|  SAR   REAL (a) Diference
Pujal Coyl                54.5      %8.8      34.3     134.7       160       25.3     189.2     248.S      59.6
CcntroVcracnaz             31        24         -7      36.2      39.1        2.9      67.2      63.1      -4.1
Teschoacin                5.9       7.6       1.7       7.1        9.2       1.4      13.7      16.1       3.1
Z     Tonat                4.6       3.9      -0.7      15.3      67.9      -17.4      19.9      71.1     -11.1
Subtotal                   96      124.3      21.3       264      276.2      12.2      360      400.5      40.5
YwcatY n           31.5                          308.S                         347.3
El Bejuco                         13.5                           11.2                          24.7
Siczn                             2.1                             22                          24.1
2S.1                          41.1                           76.9
Huixd                             49.4                           20.1                           69.5
Tapaclmla                          57.5                            16                           73.5
M    Pi miduapan                     7.5                          36.7                           44.2
M lg Comunt                         12.5                           13.S                          26.3
A2 - 'LAND USE CHANGES
Ms 000)
'SAR LAND USE CHANGES                                                         1993 SITUATION (SATELITE IMAGES) 31                      % TARGET ACHIEVEMENTS
'WITHOUT PROJECT 1/             WITH PROJECT 2/              'INCREMENTAL               WITH PROJECT                      INCREMENTAL                      AREAS(SAR)
Subproject          Croplufit Livestock   Total    C:lFut livatock   Total    Crop/fit livcstock   Total    Crop/frit [Matock   Total    Crpifiit livetock   Total    Cop/frit Livestock   Total
PujalCoyll 8.8                     160      241.1     172.2     104.3     276.5      13.4      -55.7      27.7     111.9     129.2     241.1      23.1      -30.1      -7.7      27.7      55.3    -27.8
CentroVeeacnuz             24       39.1      63.1      45.1      24.4      70.2      21.1      -14.7       7.1      21.2        45      66.2       -2.1       5.9       3.1     -12.8      -40.1     43.7
Tesechoacdn               7.6        9.2      16.1       9.6       6.1      16.4         2       -2.4      -0.4       9.1       6.1       15.9       1.5      -2.4      -0.9      75.0     100.0     225.0
Zanapa-TonalO             3.9       67.9      71.2      23.5      72.5        96       19.6       4.6      24.2      12.2      68.2       10.4       8.3       0.3       8.6      42.3       6.5       35.5
________             ~~~~~0 __ _ _ _0 
Subtotal                124.3     276.2      400.5     251.1       201     459.1      126.1     -61.2      51.6     154.41    249.2     403.6       30.    - -27         3.1      23.7      39.6        5.3
Orieits Yucatan(b)       38.5      30S.1     347.3      26.5     301.1     335.3       -12         0        -12      31.5     301.1     347.3         0         0         0          0                  0.
El Bejuco                13.5       11.2      24.7      13.4      10.1      24.2       -0.1      -0.4      -0.5      13.4      10.S      24.2       -0.1      -0.4      40.5       1o0     100.0      100.0
LaSiera                  2.1        22       24.1       6.1      21.4      21.2       4.7       -0.6       4.1       6.8      21.4      28.2        4.7      -0.6       4.1       100     100.0      100.0
Acapetahua (c)           28.8       48.1      76.9      21.1      41.1      76.9         0         0          0      21.s      4S.1       76.9        0         0          0
Hubdia (c)               49.4       20.1      69.5      49.4      20.1      69.5         0         0          0      49.4      20.1      69.5         0         0         0
Tapachula (c)            57.5        16       73.5      57.5        16      73.5         0         0          0      57.5        16       73.5        0         0          0
Marg. Pijijiapan (c)      7.5       36.7      44.2       7.5      36.7      44.2         0         0          0       7.5      36.7      44.2         0         0         0
Mbrg. Comitan (c)        12.5       13.1      26.3      12.5      13.1      26.3         0         0          0      12.5       13.8      26.3        0         0          0
1  1                                            ~ ~~~                   ~~~~~0  0    0 ____
Total                   334.1     752.9       1017     453.5     613.7    1137.2      119.4r  -9.2         50.2     368.1   724.9    1093.7        34.71      -21       6.7      29.1      40.5       13.3
1/ SATEUTE WIAGES 1979-86
2t SAR ESTIMATES
3 SEE APPENDIXF



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
29
TABLE 6B
PROJECT BENEFITS
PROJECT IMPACT ON CROP YIELDS (ORIGINAL PRODERITH II AREAS)l
(Tons/Ha)
SAR estimate                                     ACTUAL2
OUTPUT             (w/o           TARGET                            Avg.              Avg.             %
Project)                         Increase         1986              1995          inhea
Maize              0.85              2.25            165             1.4               1.5             6
Beans              0.55             0.80             45              0.9               0.9             0
Sorghum             2.0              3.0             50              2.1               2.4             10
Rice                1.1              3.2             190             3.3               3.3             0
Cotton              NA               NA              NA              1.0               2.1            110
Chile               5.1              8.0             57              6.6               8.3             24
Melons              NA               NA              NA              10                6.7            -33
Watermelon          NA               NA              NA              8.7              13.6             56
Soybeans            0.8              1.2             50              1.2               1.5            25
Sugarcane          65.5             78.3             20             70.5              97.0            38
Safflower          0.75              0.9             20              0.9               1.0            11
Tomato              7.0              11.8            68              2.0              11.4            470
Pineapple          34.5             46.1             34             36.9              48.9            33
Mango               5.3              10.2            92              7.0               7.0             0
Citrus             10.0              14.0            40             12.4              15.5            25
Papaya             13.0             20.0             54              35                31             -11
Banana              NA               NA              NA             25.0              45.0            80
Tobacco             NA               NA              NA              1.4               1.4             0
Meat (kg/ha)       44.0              110             151             43                48              11
Milk (It/ha)        76               430             465             23                33             43
SOURCE: SAR, CNA 1993 and Bank estimates.
Includes the following subprojects: (I) Pujal-Coy; (ii) Centro de Veracruz; (iii) Tesechoacan; (iv) Zanapa-
Tonala; (v) Oriente de YucatAn; (vi) El Bejuco; (vii) Isla Rodriguez Clara; and (viii) La Sierra.
2    Actual performance of staple crops was lower than SAR estimates, primarily due to unsatisfactory
extension services to farmers.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTUIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-Il (LOAN 2658-ME)
30
TABLE 6C
PROJECT BENEFITS
PROJECT IMPACT ON PRODUCTION AREAS (ORIGINAL
PRODERITH-II AREAS)'
(ha)
SAR estimate                           ACTUAL
(W/o       TARGET    % Increase      Avg.         Avg.         %
OUTPUT        Project.)                              1986         1995       Increase
Maize            75,087       74,603          0        59,600       95,400        60
Beans             8,290       29,637         257        8,100       15,400        90
Sorghum          22,059       68,073         209        7,700       10,300        34
Rice               291         4,384        1,406       1,271        1,360         7
Cotton             NA           NA           NA          920        25,000       2,617
Chile              488         1,205         147        1,880        2,350        25
Melons             NA           NA           NA          730         1,300        78
Watermelon         NA           NA           NA         1,430        1,900        33
Soybeans          17,464      61,422        252         10,540       4,000        -62
Sugarcane         7,602        17,388        129        11,600      20,000        72
Safflower         18,814      26,464         41        33,400        800          -98
Tomato            1,270        1,518         19          525          153         -71
Pineapple         2,383        3,465         45          760         2,900        281
Mango             3,632        9,958         174        5,830        4,240        -27
Citrus             732         7,155         877        3,800       14,300        276
Papaya            1,428        1,428          0         1,250        1,150        -8
Banana             NA           NA           NA         1,000        4,000        300
Tobacco            NA           NA           NA         1,900        2,000         5
Others            23,280      92,284         296        2,764        3,447        25
TOTAL            182,820      398,984        118       15:,000      210,000:      35
SOURCE: SAR. CNA and Bank estimates.
Includes the following subprojects: (I) Pujal-Coy; (ii) Centro de Veracruz; (iii) Tesechoacan; (iv) Zanapa-
Tonala; (v) Oriente de Yucatan; (vi) El Bejuco; (vii) Isla Rodriguez Clara; and (viii) La Sierra.



MEXaCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
31
TABLE 6D
PROJECT BENEFITS
PROJECT IMPACT ON CROP PRODUCTION
(ORIGINAL PRODERIH II AREAS)1
(Economic Value: 1995 constant 1000 USS)
ACTUAL
Avg.         Avg.            %
OurPT           1986          1995         Increase
Maize             19,800       24,100           21
Beans             5,400         9,900           83
Sorghum           3,100         3,300            6
Rice               1,500        1,500            0
Cotton             500         29,200          5,740
Chile             12,500        11,700           -6
Melons             1,700        5,100           200
Watermelon         400          1,000           150
Soybeans          3,600         1,600           -56
Sugarcane         14,700       35,200           139
Samlower          3,600          200            -94
Tomato             600          2,500           316
PInapple           2,700        13,500          309
Mango              3,300        2,400           -18
Citrus            4,700         18,500          294
Papaya            4,400         4,000           -9
Banana             3,500       25,200           620
Tobacco           12,400        7,300           -41
Meat (kg/ha)      17,400       28,500           64
Milk (It/ha)       2,400        4,900           104
Shrlmp & Fish       0           1100
Other              3,100        4,100           32
* -  - - :121,300   234,800        .93
SOURCE: BASIN, S.A. de C.V. and Bank estimates.
Indudes the following subprojects: (1) Pujal-Coy; (ii) Centro de Veracruz; (iii) Tesechoacan; (iv) Zanapa-
TonaIi. (v) Oriente de Yucatin; (vi) El Bejuco, (vii) Isla Rodriguez Clara; and (viii) La Sierra.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
32
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                 Purpose                 Status             Impact
1. Bejuco Project   Evaluate technical and     Completed in 1987   Used in the project
(Nay.)              economical feasibility and set                implementation
Feasibility Study    basis for detailed designs.                  (24,000 ha)
2. Rodriguez Clara    Evaluate technical and   Completed in 1987   Used in the project
Island (Ver.)        economical feasibility and set               implementation (50%
basis for detailed designs.                  of infrastructure
Feasibility Study                                                 completed)
3. Sierra de Tabasco   Evaluate technical and  Completed in 1988   Used in the project
(Tab.)              economical feasibility and set                implementation
basis for detailed designs.                   (29,000 ha)
Feasibility Study
4. Sanes Huasteca   Evaluate feasibility from  Completed in 1994   Expected to be
(Tab.)              technical and economic     Detailed design will  implemented in the
points of view.           follow.            future.
Feasibility Study
5. Oriente Yucatan    Improve Citrus and       Completed          Promoted the farmer
Citrus and          Horticulture marketing in                     associations
Horticulture        Merida and Cancun                             marketing.
Marketing Study
6. Centro de Veracruz Improve Mango and        Completed          Very effective for
Pineapple and Mango  Pineapple marketing.                         Pineapple exports to
U.S.A.
Marketing Study
7. Bejuco Horticulture Improve marketing of    Completed          Improve Melon
horticulture products.                       regional and national
Marketing Study                                                   marketing.
8. Machinery Mix     Selection of Specifications of Completed in 1994   Set basis for
requirements for    machinery mix for O&M in                      purchasing machinery
PRODERITH-II         each subproject.                             to assist O&M
9. Satellite Imagery   Fine-tune the land use  Completed 12/15/95 Very effective for
interpretation for land  changes in PRODERITH-II                  ICR preparation and
use changes in       subprojects area                             ex-post evaluation
PRODERITH-Il
10. PRODERITH-II  Evaluation impact of         On-going           Provide support to
ex-post evaluation  PRODERITH-II                                  ICR and GOM ex-
.__________________ ._______________________  _________________  post   evaluation.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
33
TABLE 8A
PROJECT COST
(Current US$ Millions)
:::::,. .:.:..:.:, ':,:. ..-..'..,..:,:.. .... .:. '  .   ::.:: .:. ...'i;
86.9       41.5       128.4        NA          NA           81.7
xwie~S xvkes     -             B        .                      '' B17.9  2.4  20.3  NA  NA  20.0
2.3          0        2.3         NA          NA           0.1
..; -.....s....               7.7         4.7       12.4         NA         NA            2.7
....... '-'' "'"'" .  B0                1.8        1.8         NA         NA            0.6
Sttzd s                                  o .     .    ..        .. - 3.3  0  3.3  NA    NA            2.0
P   tAsnxatiu   W   4  ,8.6                            1         9.6        NA          NA            8.3
Cast            ~~~~~~126.7   51.4      178.1         NA         NA          115.4
24.7       14.7        39.4
... ot al . 0~ttW      -        -...ss151.4  66.1  217.5         NA         NA          115.4
TABLE 8B
PROJECT FiNANCING
(Current US$ Millions)
108.5        0.0       108.5        NA          NA           33.1
42.9       66.1        109         NA          NA           82.3
151.4       66.1      217.5         NA          NA          115.4



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
34
TABLE SC
TOTAL PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(1995 Constant USS '000)
-    ~~~~~~~~~~~RMU RY-    ROEFHe                                                                                             SUSPftOY-ECTDSOMClPAS.m:::TQTALES33
::    EWtAL tE                                    :: 7 ::   V    E      SZ@&::: : :  ::  TONM           g2: IISA                                                 0I ], i:tQ   tALA  [L:E7:: aluu  PJUi 1OCULA  .. ....    .. ......      aimn   ::
:   : :    :                 :   S_______  R  :: RESAL S UK  RA    O        EAL  EAR:: REAL  SAR           AM:: REAL  REAL  rREAL  SAR    REAL            REAL   REAL        A REAL  E.    REAL:    REAL:            AR   R::     L      ICIA
L COST. SUBPROY.
Canhos                              4463   2520       6484    3438   3017   3494    663   1226  19342  10913   1961   6065   1097   1280   9123                        181    2374        675                3229       35250       33944    -1306           96
Dr-)e                                                22143     772   2022   1499   1727   1741                       1258   5851            6217   7110                        542                            542       32109       11664   -20445           36
EsflMmsyOasC               as         513    447       883   2013    604               326           2235   1788    129   1740              2416   1K89       1790   2538                           381      4709        6977       10825      3848         155
Consevocndesueos                                      2685             448                            821    257            3281    240    223   3520          886     232      280       154      2149      3702        4177        7479      3303         179
Desmorrs                                      979    34535             332                                     99                            331       0                                                         0      35198        1077   -34120             3
Tra4OSpwCSMrO8                       5027             3520            1992            1992           3317                                   5120       0                                                         0      20968           0   -20968             0
AlTwC lwUMzaN                                          265                                                                                                                                                       0        265           0      -265            0
ATc. gwins                                            4437              357    438    336                     184                    241      37    241                                                          0       5167         862    -4304            17
Edidos                                                 945               30             30             30                                    279       0                                                         0        1314          0    -1314             0
(ms de fc 16n erio                                            1818                                                                                                                                               0                   1818
Mdcis glcolers.mad o sacoIbs                  946                10                                            53                                                                                                0                   1009
POsos                                        1242                                                                                                                                                                0                   1242
Oltsde  ros icdo                                               231             273            699                     220    220                     440                        133                            133                   1775
DesoazS. rio Bksi                                                                                            1922                                                                                                0                   192
Total Obm clvil                     10004   6135    75896   3261    33o3   5704   5073   3687  25745  15216   3568  17157   1577  15902  22302                2676    2951    3232        32z       2530    12314      14123        73813    47565            52
Totl Maquin8Equlpo                    738       0     4160        0   1581   1150   1874        0   2272        0       0              0   4091        0         0        0       0         0          0         0      14718        1150   -13563             8
TOTALO4VERSIOI                      10743   6 135                    10363  6 85U    6947 13867  26017 115216  s356   17157   1577  16063 1 22302             2S7S    2ss1    3328        325       2530    12314      156136       74766    41371            48
B. CoMM. Fcurrentee                 3853   4126    26676    5223   4182   1037   3525   1374   7945   2456    260   1996    373  10OSS   2613                  203      33      213        43      2373      2670       50259       20251    3900e            34
sCoos                                1465            11805            1663            1376           3124                                   4108       0                                                         0      23541       r)       -23541
Operdon y Mwmtrriento                 421             2388             948            1027           1206                                   2589       0                                                         0       8580       C)         -8580
CostsdOpserad6n                      1767   2469    15753   2657   1581    627   1123   1053   3514    1742                  1966    373   3371   2339         203              213        43        112       571      27138       11457    15681            42
Crervadn cwmnos y crenes                     256                s0             410            624                     280                            280                                             298       23                    1948
Consarvad6n de irIrasretcte                  548              2078 4                                          754                                                       33                          1998     2001                    5382
M4srwedI6Il de cans                                            414                                                                                                                                               0                    414
Cartucidon yrddotitbbones                    853                                              197                                                                                                                0                   1050
COSTO BASE SUBPROYECTOS            143at   10261   119931 11380   14575 1 7661  10472 1 5541  35162  17712   3848  1i122   19n0  30061 [24921                 2370    2964    3841        372    4101   15186          21536        3501   -120379           44
t SERV AGR APOYO                              am              5062             292            5se             530       0   1650       0            1650       220    66        626         8        e6s     15sm6      5164        27074    41750            46
A Extmmi6n                                    156             50S2             232           5s6              530       0   16e6       0            1650       220    6sW       623         0        666    15006       34147       23367   -10761            el
Vdtlioks. Maq y Epipps                                                                                                                                                                                                    4812      C1)       -4812
S         Mas y Costs Cpacdon                                                                                                                                                                                           29335       C)        -29335
mosla tr"foiIos                                               2844              37             44                                                                                                                                    2924
Md od4Cwaucdon T.010                                          1164             256            542             398             108                    108       220      138     177                  250       736                   3252
Agim Ponley SwMrr6enh14t0ll                                   1055                                                                                            C1)      C)      C1)      C)          )        12621                   13676
Spmrsnli6n                                                                                                    132            1542                   1542               520      451                  419      1300                   3065
COmwalcmdny ceepscrdn                         180                                                                                                                                                                                      150
ELhnes   eI6o                                C)                C)              C)             C)              C)     C)      C)      C)             () (1)             C)       )       r)         C)        r)         203          3177 -7706               15
C. Aeecor                                    630                                                                                                                                                                 0       364          630      -330 4         14
ADROIt PROY.                                   0             3j40             372            962             407    166    S01    4e4              1433        so        0     264       134        261       7586      2e47       12162   -12510            4
A. baVm*d6n                                     0             7577              IT             67             35        0       1     S9 6340                   So        0     2U        134        261       75s       1s61         63       -6434          so
m     -e-l"p                                                                                                  290                                                                                                        2034         290    -1744            14
slois                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8989      C1)       -6808
CodosdeOpsrsd6n                                               2257              8o             67              75             285                    285                                             261       261       5165        3024    -2141            59
hiuwdo_ad                                                     474                6                                            517     39             55s        80              284       134                  407                   sso6
Trt*ls de adrhfsluddn                                          573                                                                                                                                                                     573
1C, T  IrdodE                                   6               145                            16                                                                                                                         3020         161     -2859           5
C. E5dios                                       0              417        0    265            sn              132    16I        0   425              502         0        0       0         0          0         0        54e4       2307    4157             42
E    CfCtspog*ks                                                               285            433                                    425             425                                                                              1144
CofflocMINNIM                                                          ~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                                                                6
t35floue9atsos                                                                                                132    166                             1se                                                                               300
C_o1lrTA                                                       417                            440                                                    867
IV TOTAL COSTO BASE                        10641             23711        o 0  336           70tis          1 37     4016  21574   2414            2S004      3176    3643   4453        1005       5637    310 3       23u034      134255  -164              45
Coro eri   f ls 14232                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0   -14292            0
Catsu  deopedas                                                                                                                                                                                                          51823           0   41823             0
ilVA                                          878             1641             I69            492            1744    414   1171    226              1811       290      306     433        90        547      1757                    563
C4A  TOTAL COSTOS                            1  I   142077  2632 14 325 3   7582  4777 10483 2 7                          z e4=       i    33 0145 2s 616     348s   4040   48 1          066       64 e3s270           36o49       143247  -221301    s
% CUMPLSNTO                                   s6                20              49             57              44                                     7S
) Notadb.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
35
TABLE 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. FINANCIAL: FARM INCOME CHANGE"1
I  FAMILY INCOME 3/        No. OF BENEFICIARIES        INCOME
FARM MODELS           1986        1995           REPRESENTED             INCREASE
PUJAL-COY 10 Has       1,380       1,666               4,374                 20%
PUJAL-COY 30 Has       4,697       6,261               2,155                 33%
C-VERACRUZ 12 Has       2,130       3,150               5,700                 47%
C-VERACRUZ 12 Has       7,616       9,765               5,700                 28%
0. YUCATAN 28 Has       2,843      3,863               21,100                 36%
TESECHOACAN 12 Has       2,472       4,136               2,520                 67%
ZANAPA-TON. 20 Has      3,400       4,942               5,570                 45%
LA SIERRA 10 Has       3,561       5,643               1,391                 58%
EL BEJUCO 26 Has       3,119       4,152               3,600                  33%
WEIGHTED AVERAGE 2/   3,321           4,541          ITOTAL) 52,110
1/ Farm Income includes Family Labor Costs and Net Income after Labor.
2/ Average weighted by number of beneficiaries represented by each model.
3/ In US$ of 1995.
B. ECONOMIC
Feasibility Studies &          ICR Estimates (1995)
SUBPROJECT            SAR Estimates (1984) 1/         ERR              NPV 2
PROJECT                      ERR                                    '000 US$
Pujal-Coy                    28.4                   11.5              3,410
Centro Veracruz                 30.0                   21.5              5,370
Tesechoacan                   35.0                    15.7             3,380
Zanapa-Tonala                  31.3                    17.5             2,600
Oriente Yucatan                 20.0                   9.8               -90
SUBTOTAL ORIGINAL                                         13.5             14,660
PROJECTS
El Bejuco                    31.1                   19.1              2,520
1. Rodriguez Clara              37.5                    11.4              120
La Sierra                    14.3                   16.1             6,350
SUBTOTAL PILOT                                          16.5             9,000
PROJECTS
TOTAL PRODERITH-1I                 23.3                   14.2             23,60 _
SOURCE: SAR, BASIN S.A. de C.V., and Bank estimates
1/ Individual Subproyect ERR estimates correspond to each feasibility study, while
Total PRODERITH-II ERR is SAR's estimate. SAR did not show ERR for each
subproject.
2/ At 10% discount rate, in US$ of 1995.



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-11 (LAN 2658-ME)
36
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement and  Type of  Present   Original    Revised                      Description of Covenant                     Comments
Section     Covenant Status 11  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date        Date
GUAR 3.01           5        CP                             Declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set   Budget shortfalls have
orth in Sch. I to the Loan Agreement ("Due Diligence  been a major problem in
Covenant.")                                          1995.
GUAR 3.02           3         C                             Carny out. except as the Bank shall otherwise agree.
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
equired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
e Loan according to the provisions of Schedule 2 to the GA as
such may be amended from time to time.
GUAR 3.03           5         C                              i) Maintain the Project Coordinating Unit. The Technical
ommittee and shall assure that each such entity continues to
valuate and supervise the carrying out of the Project; (ii)
stablish and when as appropriate, and maintain such
rganizational arrangements at the State level in each State in
e Project Area as shall be adequate for purposes of carrying out
_f the Project.
GUAR 3.04 (a)       3         C                              xtend the agreement on supply and coordination of credit
stablished as part of PRODERITH L entered into on 250594 to
ilude: (i) the new Pilot Projects Area; and (ii) the full time
period during which the Project shall be carried out.
GUAR 3.04 (b)       5         C                              ake such other measures as shall be necessary or advisable to
nsure that Beneficiaries of this Project shall be provided with
ch credit, fertilizer and improved seed, when and as required
to make appropriate utilization of the agricultural resources in
the Pilot Projects Area. 
GUAR 3.05 (a)       5        CP                             rhe facilities included in the project to be operated, maintained  Purchase of maintenance
and repaired in accordance with sound engineering, agricultural, equipment still pending,
technical, financial and administrative practices.   scheduled for early 1996.
GUAR 3.05 (b)       3         C      _                       stablish through SARH (i) start-up funds for each existing and
iew pilot project with Pujal Coy II, to provide the training and
naterials necessary to permit community maintenance of
maller, local works; and (ii) mechanisms for community
contributions to maintain said local works.
GUAR 3.06 (a)       9         C                              omplete feasibility studies on terrms and conditions satisfactory
o the Bank, of five potential areas for new pilot projects in the
_roject area by 311287.
GUAR 3.06 (b)       9         C                               iscuss the results of such studies with the Bank.
GUAR 3.06 (c)       9         C     06/30/88                Select at least three new pilot projects for inclusion in the
.______________     _ I.I___I__                             Project, acceptable to the Bank.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-IH (LOAN 2658-ME)
37
Agreement and   Type of   Present    Original         Revised                     Description of Covenant                         Comments
Section      Covenant Status 1/  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
GUAR 3.07 (a)         I          C                                Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
gencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.                                                      I
GUAR 3.07 (b)         1.9        C                                 ave the accounts referred to in Se. 3.07 (a) verified in
ccordance with the guarantor's ordinary procedures, as agreed
tween the Guarantor and the Bank, and furnish annually to the
Bank the report of such verification.                                             l
GUAR 3.07 (c)         I          C                                Mntain separate records and accounts reflecting expenditures
on the basis of statements of expenditures, retain such records
intil one and a half years after the Closing Date, and enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records and accounts.                       l
LOAN 4.01             1         CD                                    e the special Account audited by independent and qualified  Audit report delivered
uditors not later than June 30 of each year and furnish to the   mid-August 1995.
ank: (i) a certified copy of the audit report, and (ii) each month
rtified statements of the Special Account and other
._____________  [ _____                    u . information concerning the Special Account or audit.
Notes:
1/ Present Status
Covenants Class
C:     Covenant comnplied with                          I      Accounts / audit
CD:    Complied with after delay                       2       Financial perfonnance / generate revenue from beneficiaries
CP:    Comnplied with partially                         3      Flow and utilization of Project Funds
NC:    Not complied with                               4       Counterpart funding
5      Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6       Environmental covenants
7       Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporfing
10     Implementation
11     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory / institutional action
13     Other



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
38
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Ni'S     ignificatlackof tompliance  withtOperational Manul Statements :as. te ted
10;-0;-:T"t-';...P                          p ert'n?       s ''''tl'au ato idt  t  '::t:t :t   :-t    E t            C  ; tf;V  :;0 :X    ...:W   -:ttt ;-    'CEl    : C :t::t:0  Et:iEi



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
39
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project         Planned               Revised               Actual
cycle
Week t      US$      Weeks li    US$       Weeks    USS $
Through appraisal       NA         NA         NA         NA         38      114.000
Appraisal-Board         NA         NA         NA         NA         31      93.000
Board-effectiveness     NA         NA         NA         NA          3       3.000
Supervision             NA         NA         NA         NA         100    300.000
Completion I            NA         NA         NA         NA          6       9.000
Total                   NA         NA         NA         NA         178    534.000
L Not Available
| Calculating using an average cost of US$3,000/week



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-l1 (LOAN 2658-ME)
40
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Stage of project cycle  Month/   Number of   Days in   Specialized staff skifls   Implementation    Development   Types of
year      persons      field         represented            status           impact       problems
Through appraisal         April/85      1          7       Agriculturist             Preparation       Not Appl.
Appraisal/ Board approv   June/85       4          20      Agr,Econ.,Eng              Appraisal        Not Appl.
Board approv/Effectiven   March/86      1          2       Agriculturist            Pre-Effective      Not Appl.
Supervision                                                _
1st.        Jan/87        1           5      Agriculturist                                   1         ICB/proc
2nd.        Aug/87        2           11     Agr.,Engineer                  I1                           O&M
3rd.        May/88        1          10      Agriculturist                  I                 I        Loc.Fund
4rd.        Jun/89        I          15      Agriculturist                  I                 I        Loc.Fund
5th.        Nov/89        2           9      Agr.,Ag Econ                   I                 I         Loc Fund
6th         July/90       1           5      Ag Econ.                       1                 1       Loc Fund
7th         Jan/91        1           5       Ag Econ.                      2                 2       Loc Fund
8th         Feb/92        3           17      AgEc, Agr, Eng                3                 2       Loc Fund
9th          Sep/92       2           12      Ag Econ, Agr                  2                 2        Clos/Date
10th       March/93        2          13      Agr., Engineer                 2                2        -
11th        Nov/93         2           9      Agr., Gender Sp.               2                2        -
12th        July/94        2          10      Engineers                      S                S        -
13th        Mar/95         3          18      Eng, Econ, AgEc                S                S        -
14th         Sep/95        3          16      Eng, Econ, AgEc                S                S        Loc Fund
Completion                Jan/96       3           21      Eng, Econ, AgEc               S                 S



MEXlCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-H (Loan 2658-ME)
41
MEXICO
SECOND TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2658-ME)
PART E: APPENDICES



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-H (Loan 2658-ME)
42
m. APPENDICES
A.   Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.   Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.    Subprojects Techinical Summaries
D.   Map
E.    List of main reports and documents used in the ICR
F.    Satellite Imagery Interpretarion maps



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
43
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
44
MEXICO
AYUDA MEMORIA
Misi6n Banco Mundial
(Enero 31 a Febrero 28 de 1996)
Informe de Terminaci6n de Implementaci6n
("Implementation Completion Report - ICR")
Proyecto de Desarrollo del Tr6pico Humedo - PRODERITH II
(Prestamo 2658-ME)
I. INTRODUCCION
1.1    Una misi6n del Banco Mundial, compuesta por los seniores Jose Simas, John Bowlin (de la Misi6n
Residente del Banco Mundial en Mexico), Jorge Rincon (Programa Cooperativo FAO-Banco Mundial) y
Juan Morelli (Consultor FAO-BM), llev6 a cabo el analisis del PRODERITH II, del 31 de Enero al 28 de
Febrero de 1996, para preparar el ICR del proyecto. Participaron con la misi6n representantes de la
Secretaria del Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca (SEMARNAP), de la Secretaria de
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (SAGAR), de la Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), de la Comisi6n
Nacional del Agua (CNA), del Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua (IMTA) y de la Consultora
BASIN S.A., contratada por CNA para preparar la versi6n nacional de la evaluaci6n de cierre del
pr6stamo.
1.2    En su reuni6n inicial en Mexico D. el 31 de Enero de 1996, la misi6n present6 sus objetivos,
confirm6 su programa de gira para visitar durante los dias 19 al 23 de Febrero los subproyectos de
Oriente de Yucatan (Yucatan), Zanapa-Tonala y La Sierra (Tabasco) y Pujal-Coy II (Tamaulipas, San
Luis Potosi y Veracruz).
1.3    La misi6n expresa su gratitud a las Autoridades del Gobiemo de Mexico por su buena
coordinaci6n de la misi6n; a las Subdirecciones Generales de Programaci6n y Operaci6n de la CNA; las
Gerencias de Distritos de Temporal Tecnificado y Programaci6n de Inversiones; las Gerencias Regionales
y Estatales del Sureste y del Noreste, y a los funcionarios de la CNA asignados al proyecto, por la buena
ejecuci6n del programa de visita; y a los representantes de SHCP, SAGAR, SEMARNAP, NAFIN e
IMTA, por su participaci6n.
1.4    La presente Ayuda Memoria refleja las observaciones y recomendaciones de la misi6n, las cuales
seran presentadas a las Oficinas del Banco Mundial en M6xico para su revisi6n y aprobaci6n.
II. ANALISIS DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
A. Cambios Institucionales que afectaron al PRODERITH II
2.1    Durante el periodo de implementaci6n del proyecto se presentaron en el Pais, al principio y al
final, dos crisis econ6micas y financieras y una serie de carnbios institucionales que afectaron
adversamente el desarrollo del proyecto. Si bien los resultados del PRODERITH II se consideran



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
45
satisfactorios, habrian podido ser mejores si no se hubieran registrado estos hechos. Entre ellos cabe
mencionar:
a)     En 1986 ( afo de inicio del PRODERITH II) se agudiz6, con la caida del precio internacional del
petr6leo, la dificil situaci6n por la que atravesaba el pais. El gobiemo formul6 el Programa Inmediato de
Reordenaci6n Econorica, con la intenci6n de superar los desajustes macroecon6micos. Las nuevas
politicas incidieron en los aspectos institucionales en relaci6n con el Proyecto: desaparecieron las
Comisiones Ejecutivas por Cuenca que habian iniciado labores en el Tr6pico Humedo; y la CPNH que
habia puesto en marcha la primera etapa de PRODERITH (1978-1985), se transform6 en el IMTA, que
se constituy6 en 1986 como 6rgano desconcentrado de la entonces Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos (SARH).
b)     Entre 1986 y 1991 el IMTA se hizo cargo de la continuaci6n de los programas para el Tr6pico
Hiumedo y del PRODERITH II. En enero de 1989 se cre6 la CNA como 6rgano desconcentrado de la
SARH asignandole la funci6n como unica autoridad en materia de aguas, en terminos normativos,
ejecutivos y de administraci6n integral del recurso. El IMTA pas6 a ser un centro dependiente de la CNA.
c)     A partir de Marzo de 1991 la CNA tom6 bajo su responsabilidad la ejecuci6n de los programas
para el Tr6pico Humedo, entre ellos el PRODERITH II. Como consecuencia, el IMTA se limitaria a
prestar apoyo a los programas en aspectos de desarrollo institucional, conservaci6n de suelos,
comunicaci6n rural y de acompanaamiento integral, mientras que la asistencia tecnica se descentralizaba
hacia nuevas empresas privadas: las Unidades de Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica (UCT). El IMTA mantendria,
ademas, la relaci6n de cooperaci6n t6cnica con la FAO y el Servicio de Conservaci6n de Suelos de USDA
(SCS). Con estas decisiones se reconoci6 de hecho la conclusi6n de la fase de intervenci6n del IMTA
como coordinadora del Proyecto.
d)     Durante el periodo 1991-1994, bajo la direcci6n de la CNA, el PRODERITH II se propuso
ampliar la construcci6n de caminos, drenajes, bodegas, silos y talleres de equipo y el sistema de
comunicaciones. En terminos productivos, dentro del area PRODERTfH II, la superficie destinada a la
agricultura se increment6 en 50,000 ha (32%). Tambien se verific6 un sustancial incremento en la
producci6n de frutas y cania de azucar, es decir de cultivos comerciales de mas valor y de mayor
generaci6n de fuentes de trabajo, en lugar de granos basicos. Algunos proyectos agroindustriales se
afianzaron con la participaci6n de empresas agroindustriales privadas en Centro de Veracruz, Costa de
Chiapas y en Zanapa-Tonala; igualmente diversas empacadoras de platanos en la Sierra y de mel6n en el
Bejuco, Tizimin, y mas recientemente una reactivaci6n de unidades industriales despepitadoras de algod6n
en Pujal-Coy II. El sistema de comunicaci6n rural se extendi6 formando redes complejas que ademas de
cubrir un territorio mis vasto, resultan mas autosuficientes y se preparan para ser transferidas a los
usuarios. Por otra parte, las mujeres aumentaron su participaci6n, con mns de 300 proyectos productivos
diversos, que abarcaron desde el cultivo de las parcelas de las Unidades Agroindustriales para la Mujer
Campesina (UAIMC) hasta la constituci6n de pequefias industrias domesticas, asi como la instalaci6n de
pequefias tiendas de abastos. Un aspecto muy importante en este periodo de implementaci6n del proyecto
lo constituye la transformaci6n de las estructuras y modalidades de organizacion. En algunos casos los
productores conformaron estructuras mas complejas con organizaciones de segundo y tercer nivel.
e)     A finales de 1994, como consecuencia del cambio de Administraci6n, se registraron en la CNA
cambios estructurales en su organizaci6n y funcionamiento. Por una parte el traslado de la SARH a
SEMARNAP y, por otra, la priorizaci6n que la CNA tuvo que dar en el manejo presupuestal para atender



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
46
varias emergencias en 1995 por situaciones climAticas adversas (sequia prolongada en el norte del pais y
dos huracanes -- Roxane y Opal-- en el area del proyecto), detuvieron nuevamente en este ultimo afio el
impulso en la implementaci6n del PRODERITH. Los recursos financieros asignados fueron escasos, se
suspendieron los contratos con las UCT que venian prestando a los beneficiarios los servicios de asesoria
tecnica y de organizaci6n, y se dej6 de adquirir la maquinaria programada para realizar el drenaje
parcelario, estimado indispensable en varias zonas con el fin de magnificar los beneficios del drenaje
principal, conservaci6n de suelos y maquinaria adecuada para las obras de conservaci6n de la
infraestructura.
B. Cumplimiento de los Objetivos del Proyecto
2.2    El diagn6stico general de la zona del Golfo y Sureste de Mexico indicaba al tr6pico hiimedo como
una regi6n de gran potencialidad pero escaso desarrollo relativo, provocado por frenos fisicos, tecnico-
productivos y socioecon6micos. Los frenos fisicos comprendian basicamente las inundaciones, la falta de
desague y drenaje parcelario, las sequias estacionales, la incomunicaci6n por carencia de caminos y los
terrenos enmontados. Los tecnico-productivos se referian a la descapitalizaci6n de los agricultores y la
carencia de apoyo tecnol6gico en la producci6n. Y los socioecon6micos se identificaban con los conflictos
por la tenencia de la tierra, la polarizaci6n econ6mica y la resistencia de la poblaci6n a organizarse,
incorporar innovaciones tecnol6gicas y aceptar la acci6n institucional.
2.3    Los objetivos asignados al PRODERITH IT fueron:
(a) mejorar las condiciones de vida de los habitantes rurales en las areas atendidas;
(b) incrementar la explotaci6n racional de las tierras bajas del tr6pico hilmedo usando tecnologias
y medidas administrativas y organizacionales, las cuales fueron altamente desarrolladas y
aplicadas en la primera fase del proyecto;
(c) incrementar la producci6n y la productividad agricola; y
(d) mejorar los servicios de apoyo a la agricultura, fortalecer a las instituciones para asegurar una
coordinaci6n efectiva de programas multisectoriales en la regi6n, y promover una mayor
participaci6n de los productores en la operaci6n y mantenimiento de la infraestructura.
2.4    El grado de cumplimiento de los anteriores objetivos se considera satisfactorio (ver tabla 1). El
proyecto tuvo un impacto sustancial en alivio a la pobreza, beneficiando a unas 52,100 familias, 12,100
nias de las previstas originalmente. Se estimo que se crearon 6.5 millones de jomales anuales de trabajo,
equivalente a unos 30,000 nuevos puestos de caricter permanente como directo resultado de las
actividades agropecuarias incrementales. Se estima que los ingresos familiares de los beneficiarios se
incrementaron en promedio en un 37% (del equivalente de US$3,320 a US$4,540 anuales) respecto a lo
que estarian percibiendo de no haber existido el proyecto, de acuerdo a ocho modelos de finca
representativos de seis de los ocho subproyectos.
2.5    El valor anual de la producci6n agropecuaria a precios econ6micos actuales, se habria
incrementado en un 94% (de US$120 millones a US$235 millones). El incremento previsto en el SAR era
de unos US$180 millones, con lo que se habria alcanzado un 63% de la meta prevista. Dicho aumento fue
logrado en buena medida debido a significativos aumentos en la producci6n de cultivos pernanentes y/o de



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
47
exportaci6n desarrollados por agricultores empresariales (banano, piffa, citricos, etc.), y en menor medida
por los pequefios agricultores del sector ejidal, los que siguen dependiendo del cultivo de granos basicos,
cuyos niveles de productividad no muestran el mejoramiento que se esperaba en caso de haberse
implementado las acciones de apoyo previstas. Por ejemplo en maiz se esperaba Ilevar los rendimientos
promedio de 850 kgs/ha a 2,250 (165% de aumento), habiendo permanecido pr6ximos a los mismos
niveles iniciales.
2.6    Los objetivos (c) y (d) no fueron suficientemente alcanzados debido una escasa transferencia de
tomnologia productiva, a las dificultades del servicio de asistencia tecnica (para 2.7 (d)) y la escasez del
cr6dito para la producci6n (para 2.7 (h)).
C. Cumplimiento Metas Fisicas
2.7    El cumplimiento de las metas fisicas sefaladas en el "Staff Appraisal Report" (SAR) se considera
satisfactorio. El resultado por componente es el siguiente:
a) Infraestructura: Durante el periodo 1986-95 se construyeron 1,400 km de caniinos, 490 km de
drenes, se beneficiaron 7,800 ha con drenaje parcelario y se hicieron labores de adecuaci6n parcelaria en
12,600 ha. En estructuras se construyeron 700 piezas y 37 bodegas con capacidad para almacenar 50 mil
ton de granos. Estos logros representan entre un 32 y 93% de las metas asignadas (tabla 2). El costo total
de estas obras fue de US$ 75 millones, que representa el 48% del costo estimado en el SAR, valorados
ambos costos en d6lares constantes de Diciembre de 1995 (ver tabla 4). Para la conservaci6n de estas
obras el proyecto apoyo la constituci6n de 18 asociaciones civiles de usuarios (para. 2.7 e)), que poco a
poco se iran haciendo cargo de esta funci6n y para lo cual se requiere la adquisici6n y transferencia de la
maquinaria pendiente.
b) Conservaci6n de suelos: Se superaron las metas asignadas inicialmente y se atendi6 una
superficie de 85,000 ha (tabla 3). Las labores correspondientes se llevaron a cabo con participaci6n
directa de los usuarios y asesoria del IMTA y SCS. Queda pendiente la realizaci6n masiva del drenaje
parcelario, para lo cual es indispensable la adquisici6n y transferencia de la maquinaria programada de
acuerdo con un estudio elaborado por el IMTA (ver tabla 5).
c) Investigacifn: Durante el PRODERITH II el trabajo de investigaci6n se enfoc6 bacia los
sisternas de producci6n con el fin de consolidar los resultados obtenidos durante el Proderith I. Las
acciones se orientaron a la validaci6n y demostraci6n de tecnologia para la transferencia; al uso y ranejo
del suelo y el agua; al equipamiento de los laboratorios y al fortalecimiento del vinculo entre la
investigaci6n y la asistencia tecnica. El INIFAP ejecut6 27 proyectos, 72 subproyectos y 115
experimentos en 8 regiones del tr6pico, dos proyoctos especiales para arroz en Campeche y uno forestal en
Quintana Roo. El inventario total de la tecnologia generada comprende 116 paquetes tecnol6gicos, quo se
intentaron transferir a traves de talleres, publicaciones de resultados y lotes demostrativos.
Sin embargo, la crisis econ6mica y la falta de mecanismos para realizar desembolsos con cargo al
proyweto ocasionaron el incurnplimiento de parte del programa (ver tabla 3). Ante la falta de
finmnciamiento, a partir de 1992 se plante6 como estrategia fundamental la transferencia de tecnologia
genurada, a traves de los t6cnicos de los Centros de Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural (CADER) y las Unidades
de Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica (UCT). Empero, estas acciones se suspendieron en el aflo de 1995.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
48
d) Asistencia Tecnica: La asistencia t6cnica a los productores se debia instrumentar a trav6s de
los CADER (Centros de Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural ), dependientes de la SARH. Sin embargo, debido a la
crisis que afrontaba el pais al principio del periodo de implementaci6n del proyecto y las dificultades
presupuestales, se produjo un periodo de transici6n que tambi6n signific6 una redefinici6n de politicas,
para compatibilizar los objetivos del Programna con las nuevas orientaciones nacionales. En tanto se
producian los reajustes, hubo una reducci6n de los servicios, perdida y desercion de personal de SARH y,
en muchos casos, ineficiencia en la prestaci6n de asistencia. Se produjo una disminuci6n de las
actividades, precisamente cuando el Programa debia expandirse.
La recuperaci6n solo empez6 a darse a partir de 1989 cuando el IMTA constituy6 las UCT,
similares a los equipos multidisciplinarios que habian trabajado en el Proderith I, y contrat6 una empresa
para que formara dichos equipos en las areas de los proyectos. Los resultados mas importantes que se
lograron con las UCT fueron la formulaci6n de 73 planes locales de desarrollo (PLD), el apoyo en la
constitucion de 18 asociaciones civiles y 173 patronatos paTa la transferencia de la infraestructura, la
realizacion de la transferencia de tecnologia en 111 aIreas, la formulaci6n y puesta en operaci6n de 90
proyectos productivos, la capacitaci6n de mas de 5,000 productores y 1,279 t6cnicos, y el apoyo a las
actividades de comunicacion con unas 6,000 aplicaciones audiovisuales. En total, estas acciones liegaron a
mas de 50,000 productores, con beneficio sobre unas 500,000 ha. Como se mencion6 en el para. 2.1 (e),
en el aflo de 1995 la CNA no renov6 el contrato con las UCT, por lo cual el servicio de asistencia tecnica
se vio repentinamente paralizado. Se espera que a partir de 1996 la CNA retome esta estrategia para la
prestaci6n de la asesoria tecnica a los productores beneficiarios del PRODERITH II.
e) Organizaci6n de los productores y participaci6n social: Fue considerado el componente
estrategico pam lograr la transferencia de tecnologia y el desarrollo de los proyectos. Las asociaciones
civiles de usuarios de la infraestructura son los principales interlocutores. Su participaci6n se orienta al
apoyo de la descentralizaci6n de funciones, principalmente las de operaci6n, conservacion y
administracion de la infraestructura; la transferencia de tecnologia; la producci6n y conservaci6n; el
bienestar social y la comercializaci6n. En estas actividades y niveles organizativos, el papel de la mujer ha
sido importante.
Con las acciones emprendidas en el PRODERITH II se encuentran constituidas 18 asociaciones
civiles con apoyo de 173 patronatos que integran 49,500 productores en 500,000 ha. El programa de
organizaci6n de la mujer campesina y bienestar social, en el periodo 1992-1994, permiti6 la puesta en
marcha de 13 redes de abasto, 45 planes de salud y cerca de 290 proyectos productivos. En 1995 no se
registr6 ningun avance en este componente.
f) Comunicaci6n Rural: En el modelo de comunicaci6n rural se consider6 como estrategia la
descentralizaci6n del sistema y su transferencia progresiva a las organizaciones de productores; la
formaci6n de personal, la dotaci6n de equipamniento y la habilitaci6n de locales, asi como la producci6n y
distribuci6n de material de informaci6n, diagn6stico y capacitacion; todo ello dentro de una red integrada
por unidades de comunicaci6n, de nivel regional, local y comunitario.
En el periodo 1990-1994 se alcanzaron los siguientes resultados: la producci6n de 136 programas
audiovisuales; la constituci6n de 76 comites de comunicaci6n y 13 unidades locales; la elaboraci6n de 314
unidades graficas y la distribuci6n de 32,650; se realizaron 1,519 emisiones radiof6nicas locales y 10,418
aplicaciones audiovisuales con la participaci6n de 269,500 personas. Estos resultados fueron alcanzados
por las UCT, las Unidades de Comunicaci6n Rural y el IMTA, con la asesoria de la FAO ( proyecto



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
49
FAO-MEX 027). Los proyectos de Pujal Coy I y Oriente Yucatan, cuentan con Unidades Regionales con
capacidad para prestar servicios completos de comunicaci6n, llevadas a cabo, en su mayoria, por los
productores organizados. En 1995 no hubo ningun avance en este componente debido a la no suscripci6n
del convenio de comunicaci6n que se tenia programado con el IMTA.
g) Capacitaci6n: Con este componente se enfatiz6 la formaci6n de recursos humanos en todos los
niveles y disciplinas requeridas para imnpulsar el desarrollo agropecuario en el tr6pico; se orient6 a generar
procesos permanentes de capacitaci6n del sector ejidal y de los pequefnos propietarios, y a la formaci6n de
organizaciones especificas. En el periodo 1991-1994 se efectuaron 292 cursos (277 en el nivel operativo y
15 en el central), con el beneficio de 6,040 productores y 1,474 tecnicos. En 1995 no hubo acciones en
este componente por cuanto no se contrataron las UCT.
h) Cr6dito: En el Proderith I el cr6dito fue un componente basico dentro de los proyectos. Sin
embargo, durante el PRODERITH II no se cont6 con una fuente de recursos financieros para sus areas de
proyecto que permitieran proveer el credito refaccionario ni el de producci6n. En este sentido los
productores se enfrentaron a los problemas vigentes en el resto del pais y no tuvieron acceso a las fuentes
institucionales de credito con recursos de FIRA o de BANRURAL. Los financiamientos parciales que
recibieron fueron a partir de 1992 a traves del Fondo Nacional de Empresas de Solidaridad (FONAES)
que dio apoyo a algunos grupos de pequefios productores, especialmente en Pujal Coy II para ganaderia de
doble prop6sito. Otra iniciativa fue la de PROCAMPO, que a partir de 1993 dio incentivos para la
siembra de maiz y otros cultivos anuales.
D. Cumplimiento Metas Financieras
2.8    Los costos del proyecto fueron estimados por el SAR (ver Tabla 4) en US$217 millones
(US$365 millones de 1995). Al finalizar 1995 los costos reales sumaban US$143 millones de 1995 (39%
de las metas). Si se excluyen las inversiones en Chiapas, las que se incorporaron en 1994 para culminar
obras incompletas del Proyecto de Desarrollo de Chiapas (Pr6stamo 2526-ME, cerrado en diciembre de
1993), los subproyectos de PRODERITH II tuvieron un costo de US$110 millones (30% del presupuesto
del SAR).
Analizndo sus componentes, las inversiones en caminos habrian superado sus metas de montos a
invertir, los drenajes construidos alcanzaron el 36% del monto previsto y los drenajes y trabajos
parcelarios utilizaron 3% de las asignaciones. La infraestructura de almacenamiento utiliz6 el 10% del
presupuesto, los servicios de extensi6n el 68% y los de investigaci6n el 15%., lo que da una idea de los
problemas resultantes en la consecuci6n de los resultados esperados.
Por su parte, el analisis de las inversiones por subproyecto muestra que en Pujal-Coy II se invirti6
el 20% de lo programado (este subproyecto se esperaba que asumiera el 40% de los costos del
PRODERITH II), Oriente de Yucatan, Centro de Veracruz, Tesechoacan y Zanapa-Tonala, absorbieron el
63%, 49%, 57% y 44% de las inversiones previstas para cada uno de ellos en el SAR. En los tres
subproyectos piloto (El Bejuco, La Sierra e Isla Rodriguez Clara), se aplicaron 78% de los montos
asignados globalmente para ellos. La drastica reducci6n de las obras programadas para Pujal-Coy II
incidi6 decisivamente en el menor cumplimiento de las metas de incremento de producci6n y productividad
del proyecto.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-il (Loan 2658-ME)
50
2.9    En relaci6n a los desembolsos del prestamo, se constat6 que luego de un afio inicial (1986)
donde los desembolsos superaron a las previsiones (basicamente por el desembolso de la Cuenta Especial
de US$7 millones), los desembolsos acumulados fueron reduciendose respecto a lo previsto, hasta llegar a
un minirno del 31% de lo presupuestado para 1991, como consecuencia de una insuficiente asignaci6n de
recursos presupuestales por parte del Gobierno. En dicho periodo, se cancelaron US$20.7 millones de los
US$109 millones del Prdstamo originalmente aprobado. Con posterioridad a 1991, el proyecto fue
reactivado, subiendo el porcentaje de desembolsos acumulados de fondos del prestamo, a 40% de to
previsto para 1993. Ante ello, el Banco accedio a prorrogar la fecha de cierre de la operaci6n, primero por
un afio hasta fines de 1994, y posteriormente hasta fines de 1995. A la mencionada fecha (diciembre de
1995), se habian desembolsado US$78.3 millones (72% del monto original, 89% del monto resultante
posterior a la indicada cancelaci6n: US$88 millones).
2.10   La Tasa Interna de Retorno Econ6mica (TIRE) del proyecto fue estimada por el SAR en
23.3%. La producci6n incremental esperada se fundamentaba en la adecuaci6n de la infraestructura y en
la provisi6n de una serie arm6nica de servicios de apoyo a la producci6n que incluia transferencia de
tecnologias mejoradas de producci6n. Los estudios de sensibilidad, incluyendo una demora de tres affos en
alcanzar los objetivos previstos, resultaban en TIREs superiores al 14.5%.
El ejercicio de evaluaci6n realizado por la misiou conjuntamente con la contraparte nacional,
considerando solamente los ocho subproyectos PRODERITH II (excluyendo los subproyectos de Chiapas
incorporados en 1994), indica que de continuarse el proyecto, la TIRE alcanzaria al cabo de los 20 afios, a
14.2%, variando las tasas obtenidas entre subproyectos, con un minimo de 9.8% en Oriente de Yucatan y
un maximo de 21.5% en Centro de Veracruz. Entre ellos se ubicaron Isla R. Clara (11.4%), Pujal-Coy
(11.5%), Tesechoaca.n (15.7%), La Sierra (16.1%), Zanapa-Tonala (17.5%) y El Bejuco (19.1%)
2.11   El Valor Presente Neto para todo el proyecto, descontado a una tasa del 10%, es satisfactorio
(US$ 23.7 millones). A nivel de subproyectos, este VPN es igualmente satisfactorio, con excepci6n de
Oriente de Yucatan e Isla Rodriguez Clara, que presentan valores ligerarnente marginales.
III. SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
3.1    Lo logros generados por el proyecto en relaci6n con sus cuatro objetivos principales, son
sostenibles para la mayor parte de dichos objetivos en la medida en que la CNA mantenga y fortalezca las
acciones iniciadas.
3.2    La CNA es una institucion estable, tiene un personal competente, bien entrenado y relativamente
bien pagado. La Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto se mantiene en la Gerencia de Distritos de
Ternporal Tecnificado, la cual depende de la Subdirecci6n General de Operaci6n. Dentro del presupuesto
de 1996, la CNA continua adelantando las acciones pendientes del proyecto, dentro de las cuales se
contempla la adquisici6n de la maquinaria destinada al mantenimiento de las obras, el drenaje parcelario,
conservaci6n de suelos, asi como la recontratacion de las UCT.
3.3    Una acci6n fundamental que asegurari la sustentabilidad de los subproyectos es la conservaci6n
de suelos y aguas y por lo tanto debe continuarse e intensificarse su promoci6n
3.4    Tanto el impacto socioeconomico del proyocto, la apreciacion positiva que los beneficiarios, los
gobiernos municipales y los estados tienen del proyecto, asi como las inversiones privadas que se vienen



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-Il (Loan 2658-ME)
51
desarrollando en las areas del proyecto, constituyen en si un buen indicador para la sostenibilidad del
proyecto.
IV. ACUERDOS Y RECOMENDAClONES
4.1    Para consolidar las acciones realizadas en el proyecto con la infraestructura construida, se acord6
que la CNA:
(a) priorizara la adquisici6n de la maquinaria de acuerdo con el estudio elaborado por el IMTA
(de mantenimiento, conservaci6n de suelos y drenaje parcelario) y su transferencia a las
asociaciones civiles de usuarios, debidamente organizadas y capacitadas;
(b) dentro del presupuesto de 1996 y siguientes, continuara desarrollando las siguientes acciones:
(i) contratar las UCT y mantenerlas como minimo por 5 afnos mis hasta tanto los
productores organizados puedan asumir sus costos;
(ii) mantener y potenciar los proyectos productivos y parcelas demostrativas que se han
venido desarrollando bajo la direcci6n del IMTA, la CNA y/o las UCT; y
(iii) terminar la construcci6n de las obras de infraestructura menor, complementaria a la
ya ejecutada por el proyecto.
(c) continuar apoyando la asesoria t6cnica especializada en los proyectos PRODERITH y Costa
de Chiapas, con el objeto de lograr la transferencia de la infraestructura, de la maquinaria y de la
administraci6n, a los usuarios de la mnisma debidamente organizados, asi como continuar
apoyando a los productores en aspectos productivos, para crear condiciones mis adecuadas para
dicha transferencia.
4.2    Para mantener y mejorar el cumplimiento de los objetivos del proyecto en relaci6n con el alivio de
la pobreza, con los cambios racionales en el uso del suelo y con el incremento de la producci6n y de la
productividad, se recomienda asignar a las Gerencias Regionales de la CNA los recursos presupuestales
contemplados en el programa de 1996 y siguientes, para asistencia tecnica, organizaci6n de los
productores, comunicaci6n rural y capacitaci6n, y buscar un mayor enlace con la SAGAR, el INIFAP y el
Servicio Forestal de SEMARNAP.
4.3    En concordancia con la politica de desconcentraci6n de actividades que aplica actualmente la
CNA, se recomienda desconcentrar la ejecuci6n de futuras acciones del proyecto incluyendo manejo
presupuestal a las Gerencias Regionales del Sureste y Noreste.
4.4    Para asegurar la sostenibilidad del proyecto, se recomienda que la CNA constituya en cada
subproyecto un equipo tecnico, responsable de la aplicaci6n de la normatividad, el seguimiento y el apoyo
t6cnico a la operaci6n. Este equipo tendria a las asociaciones civiles de usuarios como interlocutores y
podria aprovechar su capacidad de gesti6n para retomar y fortalecer la coordinaci6n institucional, que
pennita complementar las acciones de desarrollo requeridas para la buena operaci6n de los distritos, tales
como la asesoria tecnica a la producci6n y comercializaci6n, el financiamiento y los servicios para mejorar
la calidad de vida de las familias.
V. LECCIONES DEL PROYECTO



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-I1 (Loan 2658-ME)
52
5.1    Las principales lecciones a aprender del PRODERITH II para futuros proyectos de esta
naturaleza son:
* tomar en cuenta que: inversiones financiadas por el Gobierno bien elegidas, disefiadas y direccionadas
del tipo de las incluidas en el PRODERITH, son en definitiva instrumentos eficaces en una estrategia
global de alivio a la pobreza;
  buscar mecanismos operativos para que los recursos de financiamiento del Banco fluyan
oportunarnente hacia los organismos responsables de la implementaci6n y, de esta forma, constituyan
recursos incrementales para los proyectos;
*  debe ser prioritario desde el inicio de los proyectos el establecimiento de organizaciones de usuarios;
*  es importante la promoci6n y desarrollo de inversiones privadas en la agricultura tropical,
especialmente para frutales y productos perecederos, dada su avanzada tecnologia, mano de obra
especializada, complejos procesos de mercadeo y la necesidad de realizar inversiones en plantas de
emnpaque y en los procesos agroindustriales requeridos;
*  considerando que los cambios administrativos en M6xico ("Sexenio") tienen un impacto substancial en
la implementaci6n de los proyectos, un trabajo mas comprometido con las administraciones de los
Estados podria mitigar este problema;
*  dadas las ventajas comparativas de la ganaderia en algunas regiones del tr6pico humedo (vacuno de
doble prop6sito y ganado menor), el mejoramiento y manejo de pastizales y ganado constituye una
actividad complementaria fundamental, para obtener incrementos sostenibles en los ingresos de los
productores;
*  la operaci6n y mantenimiento (O&M) de la infraestructura por parte de los mismos beneficiarios; su
adecuada organizaci6n, entrenanmento y capacidad administrativa;  la dotacion de equipos y
maquinaria apropiados, asi como la adecuaci6n de los instrumentos legales y administrativos para
recaudar cuotas para la autosuficiencia, son factores importantes para obtener una mis efectiva y
sostenible O&M de la infraestructura;
*  debe prestarse una mayor atenci6n al problema de la falta de estabilidad en la unidad de
implementaci6n del proyecto y en los constantes cambios de agencia de irnplementaci6n y de personal
directivo;
*  es esencial la provisi6n de lineas especificas de credito, o de otros mecanismos apropiados, con el
objetivo de acelerar las inversiones a nivel de fincas, especialmente de los agricultores pobres, asi
como de la mayoria de los agricultores asentados en ejidos en las areas cubiertas por el PRODERITH
II.
M6xico D.F., 15 de Marzo de 1996
Jos6 Simas                         Jorge Rinc6n
Banco Mundial                      FAO/CP



MEICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH 11 (Loan 2658-ME)
53
TABLE 1
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Development Plans                    C-ommunities                             64         7311
{W  M  XtAssisted Families          No .                     40,000      40,000     52,100        130       130
tionalEmployment                       Man-Days                6,700,000  6 700,000  6,500,000        97         97
sucueimprovement Coverage         Ha.                      147,000   332,000   482,300          328        145
tersectorinl/Movilization of Services     No. of communities         NA                      963
{Faners' Income Increase                    US                         NA                    1,220,
uwaUse                              I                    127Ha.8    1      305         209        7           69
LASS     Use                                  lOOO~~~~~~~~~~~~100Ha.       517        53         679J        3         126
ses                 -; WSE                                        I l00OHa.  NA  NA   1 3691                    31| 1261 1
Vegetation               ~~~~~~11000 Ha.               NA         NA  1 6144__                                        _
W......t                                              Tons                      25,316     26,348    28,482         113        108
Milk                            1~~~~~~~~~~I000 Liters     57,042     57,042     19,397        34         34
Fruit                           ~~~~~~~~~~1000 Tons          217        539        574        265         106
egetables                      ~~~~~~~~1000 Tons             20        120         62        310         52
N  c *.*..*..."..'5                                          01000 Tons                  423        473        250         59         53
A~I~  .~.ugar(a)                                    1 000 Tons                    72         59        183       255j       311
I  |OOTons                  104                           1
l 00O Tons                    3                    11         42
Honey                           ~~~~~~~~1000 Tons             A3_______
A and IMTA (trining)                     Man-Hours                  NA        64,000     54,220                    85
_  INIFAP laboratory improvements           USD 1000                   NA
Produces' Organizations:                                               NA
 Organizations Assisted                  No.                         NA            5         78                  1560
 Produces Trmining                       Man-Hours                  NA       167,000   203,652                    122
Farmer Comunicat. Organizat.Established     no.                        NA          248         109                    44
'C  .'<.          'C' jal ~~~~Orgnization (Health Education,                                 NA
o etn, ec)Established)  ENo.                                         NA           104        180                   1731
(a) 83 Kg. of 96o sugar per ton of cane



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODER1TH II (Loan 2658-ME)
54
TABLE 2
PROJECT PHYSICAL IMPLEMEENTATION TARGETS
goads                                  1 ,500     1,048      1,393        93        133
_DAains               Km.               700        844        489         70         58
_   Inaestructure  Structures           No.              1,400       921        699         50         76
onstrnction         Enput Storage          1000 Tons         109        137         35         32         26
Ohr Storage           unit             NA            16        12                    75
OM Facilities          o.8300
ce Complexes        o.                 2          2                     0          0O
On-FarmDrainage       1000 Ha.           36         33        7.8         22         24
FarmeLand         Soil Conservation      1000 Ha.         N475       53.2       85.0        179        160
Lad Clearing          I1000 Ha.        NAII
jSmoothing              1000 Ha.          60         54        12.6        21         23
O&MfNo                 1       120                     1          1
O&G             0N                NA
SolConffvation     IN.NA______
Agrcultural Module    No.            NA            24         30                   125
~ |Livestock Module                                                No              NA            20        85                   425
POterngs Module        No.             NA           22           3                    104
Feeds Blending Plant   Plant           NA             1          1                  100
Infraestn,cture   molasses center      No.              NA           1 3         3                    23
Molasm Tank                      NA             1          I                  100
Trench Silos                     NA           20          4                    20
Pumping PlantNA                               1 2         3                    25
A_ucutur_Uit_A_                                                                    I100_ _ _ _ _



MEX[CO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH II (Loan 2658-ME)
55
TABLE 3
PROJECT PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
R   .....  {.. .   g   R   :    a   .......................................  g   g   :   .m.::  g   |  }g   X         .        :::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ........1
Extension Support                 Man-Years                                  85
Strengthening        Farmer Organization Assisted        o.                                       170
gAcultural, Farner   Extention Vehicles (vehicles))     o.                360        360         42          12         12
and Research          Research Support                  Man-Years           195        195        105         54         54
_ Orgalizations       Vehicles/Research                   o.                                        0
Laboratories Equipment              S Dollars                   1,100      2,500                  227
[Mass Medoa Support               Po.
Formal                       .   Man-months           489        489        414         85         85
New Staff                         Man-months          600        600        200         33         33
For Producers                     Man-months        1,500      1,500      1,500        100        100
Subprojects (Gen)                  o.                              4      4            100        100
__ Studies       Detailed     Pilot Aras           No.5                              5         O          0          O
Marketing Studies       No.                   3          3          3        100        100
Expatiiate Local  USDAS oilEConserv. Service                       81           8       175        2190       219
x .  R     ,  Technical~~Assistance   FOMnYas|                                             5.5        5.5        5.51      100        100|
__                             Short~~~~~~~~~~TennmLocal Expatr. Consul.    Ma-er1 .5l           1.51       1.51       100|       100|



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERTH-U (Loan 2658-ME)
56
TABLE 4
TOTAL PROJECT COST SUMMARY
iS Cat uSS ooo)
...-     --       t    -'-    !    'X'''S   '  ' ' 'u  ac iita -. ..                                                          . '.....  ...... ..  . ..
::--:- ..... ......                                                                                                           ....    ... -.  -:' ............  .   . ..........                  ::-                        :: : :: ::E-.  ' 'i . : : ......::  :::-'::'
L ~~~~~~48    2520                          6484    3438   3017   344            12    194   10913   1961   tOS5   1097   1230   9123                    181    2374       875                322    35250           33944    -1306           96
(22143m22 491* 74 255 2771                                                                                                                                                542                           542       32109       11664   -20445           36
Eflfhdi       _yO Cs,nufi            513    447       883   2013    604             326           2305   1788    129   1740            2416   1869      1790   2538                             S        79        67         1S5        34             5
Suit                                           465Utt1    251                                                     3281    240    223   3820        886     232      280       154      2149      3702        4177        7479      3303         179
gsa52                                             5525            19             92             3752                                                                                                    0       51675        86o    -4304l          17
9 4                                    U~~~     ~      ~~~~945  30o 43  303            30     U                     4     2739    20                                                         0        15314        0f    -1314            0
Okinw td6nldqo                                               1818                                                                                                                                          0                    1181
Pesos                                      12442                0530                                                                                                                                                          1242
Gassah                                                        231            273            8598         12       220    220                   440                        133                            133                   ins2
Total Okra cIil                    10004   6135    75696e o3    163   5704   5073   366f7  25748  15216   3566  17157   1577  15902  22302              2676    2681    3326        329       2530    12314      14142        73813    47905            52
Total EaUbtqlpO                      738       0     4189        0   1581   1150   1874       0  2272        0      0              0  4091       0          0       0       0         0          0         0       14716       1150   -13566             8
TOTAL 6iVER94                      10743   6 135  |66        9261  16363   665w4  6647   366 7  23017  1t5216   3st  17157   1577  19693  722302        2576    2g51    3323        929      2530    12314       156136       74766    41371            4U
C. Cos rausm                        3653   4126    26976    5223  4132   1037   3525   19)74   7345   2496    296   1S95    373  10066   2619            203       33     213        43       2379      2970      59288       20251    -3500            34
Sale                                1465            11805            1663          1376           3124                                 4108      0                                                         0      23641       C)        -23641
CqsudGytseW                          421             2388             948          1027           1206                                 2589      0                                                         0       8580       C)         -8580
CfsSpsd&r                           1767   2489    15783   2657   1581    627   1123   1063   3514   1742               1966    373   3371   2339        203              213        43        112       571       27138      11457   -15681            42
CommendS  usaytons                          256                50            410            824                   280                          280                                             298       296                    1948
_eauddshaauj                                548              20478                                        74                                                       33                         1968      2001                   54182
C   yrufbdu                           853                                             197                                                                                                            0                    1050
C TOBASE 6SRO        TS        14366 1s0261   110031    13666 s7 147    7691  10473   3 541  35U62 117712    6316422   1950  30061 l24621            2379    236    3541        37   -4906         15194      215396      36013  .1207s             44
L  SV. Mtar *      o           s         e         e         502             232            566      5      30      6   1950       0          1650    2 20        666     523         0   us6          isgse   6664           27074    4190             46
V_ Iq y E ~~~150                                  5062            232    s e 6                 530       6   1650      0           1650    220    es           6o          0u 66            15066      34147       2 3367   -a1076      U
SaleyCou OrrdU                                                                                                                                                                                     25335      C)92      -2935
lMdCepatTstlc                                                116t4           256            542           3sf      f     109f                  104    r220        138     177         r        }250     76t5                   392562
yt 150 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132                                                                    1542                   1542               520     481                  419      1360                    2068
Coma4cadhy~~~~adhddm              1504                                                                                                                                                                                15
thwssdpd6m                         C)~~463    52  C4  ) 348317 39                 C)3 122               C) 1013)       C)0C) 12)                        C)38    237      C)5    C)22)                     525066      31774   -17706           16
C     _aol                                 630                                                                                                                                                           0       56r }    } r     }   )    }r   ,o 234  3530o   -330e41
* ADUOK. PRa.                                  0             3140            372            362           497    166u301    464               1433 e1               0    2U4        134        21 70 2542          310         1162   -12510            49
haplo_6o                                    0              7877             37            67            366       0    301     36            640        o0        6    24         134       231        759      16166        9693    -64                3
MsqhWlsbe                                                                                                 30                                                                                                        209342       290     -1744          14
Cenda4                                                                 357    43 2257  80    67             75           285                   285                                             261       231        5161        3024         -2141       17
haudeden39                                                   4748              6                                         517      39           555         80             254       134                  497                    5806
Trt*s a atattaflan       ks              4              573                                                                                                                                                                573 00
Tords  de                                      0                1 5                                                                             4 16                                                                3020         161     -2859           5
CTo  NEdIu        p                            0              417       0    235       34     9            132    16       0        425   54010                      0       0        9           0         0       84u6        2307    -3157           42
dEsWeMs                                                                      285            433                                  425           425                                                                              1144
E2hafles                            1465vs                                                                132 1361684                          168                                                                   I I2541   (1I                I254
C _ 1d6TA                                                     417                           UO8    1106           1u                                                                                                             39671
Casks  dAeOpTO m     E                    107 41            23711       0    656           7069         16736   436  21674   2414            23004       317     3643   43         1005       537       1036   1 27913        134255   -15468            42
[rVA                                        878              1641            669            492           174     414   1171    226           1811        290     398     433        90        U7        1787                   8993
GRAM TOTAL  COSTOS                 136   113O19      142077  I2e33   13732 T 9224   13253   7582  47077 120463   430  22746   2940  36065 123615    3479   4040   4  6             1096        384     32796      365048      143247   -2151            39
X CUMPU8ENTO                                  63               20              3             57             U     =                              73                                           =_4
I'lywdrae1a64                            256   Se       42            35d                                           0 20cerroapordu7a



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERIrH-II (LOAN 2653-ME)
57
TABLE 5
NECESIDADES DE MAQUINARIA Y EQUIPO PARA CONSERVACION DE DRENES Y CAMINOS Y PARA EJECUCION DE DRENAJE PARCELARIO Y CONSERVACION DE SUELOS
CONSERVACION DE DRENES Y CAMINOS                   DRENAJE PARCELARI                          CONSERVACION DE SUELOS
MOTOCO CA,O0N TRACTOR TRAC. AOR COMPAC- CAMION EXCAVA  CAROADOR  CAMION  ZANJADORA  CANALERA  ARADO  NVEA. ARADO DE ARADO DE ARADO DE MOTOCIJLQ  TRACTOR RASTRA ASPERSORA I. =
FORMAD VOLTEO   D-4   CON 4 IP  TADOR   PIPA  HIDRAUL  314 YD3  CON BRAZO   DONDI       BORDERO  DORA  VERTEDER MARIPOSA SUBSUELO   TOR    AGRIC   DE
135H   7M3           LKEROS   7QHP         3/4YD3            HIAD                              CUCHILL                                  12010p  DISCOS
PRODERI:.
LA SElRA, TAB               1      1               1                     I                              I            I      1       I       1                        1                     -1
ZANAPA-TONALA TAB           1      4      1        1       1      1      1       1                           1       1       1      1       1        1                  ..
TESECHOACAN, VER            1      1               1 I   I                                                   1              1       I       1         1:
CENTPO DE VERACRtJZ, VER    1      1      I        1       1      I      I       I                  1        1       1       I      I       I        I       I       1                      1
PUlAL-COY H                 1      2      2        2       1      1      2       1                  1        2       2      2       2       2        2       2        I                    -
ORlEbT DE YUCATAN, YUC.     I                                                                                                                                                1        I
BEYUCO. NAY.                1      1               1       1      1      1       _                  1        _       1      1       1       1                _
PLAN CIIAPAS
ACAPETAHUA                         2               2       1      1      1                          1        1       1       1      1        1                        1
HuDmTLA                            4       1      2        1      1      1       1                  1        1       1       1      1       1                         1
TAPACHUIA                          2      1        1       1      1      1       1                  1        1       1      1       1       1                         1
COMITAN                     I      2      I        I       I      I      I       I        I                  I       I       I      I       I                         I                    s1
MAROARTTA S PDDIAPAN        I      I               I                                                                              
SANFERAND, TAMP&           2      2      2       4       2      2               _2                                  2      2       2       2                _       2                    s 
E  gE ES EE E S S gSE  E  E W 



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
58
APPENDIX B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR



MEXCO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
59
1.       INTRODUCCION
1.1. Tr6pico Huimedo (PRODERITH), confirmaron la importancia estrategica de las
planicies tropicales hiimedas en el crecimiento del sector agropecuario de Mexico y
generaron una experiencia institucional, metodol6gica, tecnica y social, que fue la
base para que el gobierno federal autorizara la segunda etapa del PRODERITH.
1.2. Para la formulacion del PRODERITH II, se realizaron estudios de diferente
naturaleza: topografia, hidrologia, agrologia, uso del suelo, tenencia de la tierra,
comercializaci6n, entre otros, y con base en ellos, se determinaron: las obras a
realizar, la orientaci6n productiva, la organizaci6n social e institucional, asi como la
factibilidad tecnica - econ6mica del proyecto.
1.3. El a.rea inicial del proyecto comprendia los subproyectos: Pujal Coy II, ubicado
dentro de los estados de San Luis Potosi, Veracruz y Tamaulipas; Centro de
Veracruz y Tesechoaca.n, en Veracruz; Zanapa Tonala, en Tabasco y Oriente de
Yucatan, en Yucatan, con los cuales se cubria una superficie de 1.224 millones de
ha. Posteriormente se incluyeron subproyectos, que inicialmente se encontraban en
etapa de estudio; asi en 1987, se incorporaron El Bejuco, Nay. e Isla Rodriguez
Clara, Ver. y en 1989, se incluy6 el subproyecto La Sierra, Tab., por esta raz6n la
cobertura del proyecto se ampli6 a 1.290 millones de ha.
1.4. En 1994, el Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF), autoriz6
utilizar recursos del prestamo 2658-ME, para consolidar acciones en los proyectos
de Desarrollo Agricola de Chiapas y San Fernando Tamps. y para un programa de
saneamiento rural en localidades del estado de Chiapas, entonces el area total del
proyecto creci6 hasta 2.049 millones de ha.
1.5. Los subproyectos fueron seleccionados en virtud de que constituian el area de
expansi6n natural de proyectos piloto, instrumentados durante la primera etapa del
PRODERITH; su delimitaci6n se hizo tomando en cuenta las subcuencas
hidrol6gicas, sus tendencias productivas, la potencialidad de sus recursos, la
organizaci6n de los servicios disponibles y en algunos casos, la importante
participaci6n de los productores existente en dichas areas.
1.6. Los subproyectos se localizaron principalmente en el sureste del pais, en regiones
con suelos subutilizados de alto y mediano potencial, que han podido aprovecharse
progresivamente conforme a su capacidad de uso, al resolverse los principales
factores de demerito, mediante el disefio y construcci6n de la infraestructura de
drenaje y caminos, asi como por los trabajos de asesoria tecnica especializada,
capacitaci6n, promocion, investigaci6n, transferencia de tecnologia y comunicaci6n
rural.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
60
1.7. El area del proyectos tiene variaciones importantes desde el punto de vista fisico.
La precipitaci6n promedio anual es de 1,716 mm y la temperatura media anual es de
240 C; en general las condiciones climaticas son adecuadas para la producci6n de
cultivos de temporal que incluyen granos basicos, frutales, oleaginosas, hortalizas y
pastos entre otros.
1.8. Los principales frenos para el desarrollo rural eran de orden fisico, tecnico
productivo y socioecon6mico; destacaban las fuertes inundaciones, el exceso de
humedad, la incomunicaci6n, la utilizaci6n de tecnologias tradicionales poco viables
en condiciones de deterioro ecol6gico.
1.9. Los objetivos del proyecto fueron:
(a)   aliviar la pobreza y mejorar las condiciones de vid de alrededor de 40 mil
familias, por medio de una mas eficiente utilizaci6n de los recursos
locales, la construcci6n de infraestructura y el suministro de servicios;
(b)   expandir la explotaci6n racional de las planicies tropicales huimedas del
pais, mediante la utilizaci6n de la experiencia tecnica, administrativa y
organizativa desarrollada en la primera etapa del PRODERITH.
(c)   incrementar la producci6n y productividad agricola;
(d)   promover la participaci6n de los productores organizados en la operaci6n
y mantenimiento de la infraestructura.
1.10. El proyecto de sustent6 en una estrategia de desarrollo por etapas, que puso enfasis
en promover la coordinaci6n institucional y la participaci6n de los productores, en el
contexto de una politica de descentralizaci6n y transferencia de medios y funciones a
las organizaciones de usuarios.
1.11. Los componentes del proyecto fueron:
(a)  construcci6n de infraestructura;
(b)  adecuaci6n de suelos;
(c)  operaci6n y mantenimiento de infraestructura;
(d)  asesoria tecnica especializada;
(e)  comunicaci6n rural, capacitaci6n y organizaci6n;
(f)  estudios,
(g)  consultoria
2.       DESEMPEN4O DEL BANCO
Contrataci6n del credito.
2.1. El proyecto de identific6 mediante diversas visitas realizadas por el BIRF durante la
instrumentaci6n de la primera etapa del PRODERITH y se concibi6 como una area
de expansi6n de los proyectos piloto. El 9 de abril de 1986, se celebr6 el contrato
del prestamo No. 2658-ME, entre el Banco Intemacional de Reconstruccion y



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
61
Fomento (BIRF) y el gobierno de M6xico a traves de Nacional Financiera S.A.
(NAFIN), por un monto original de 109 millones de d6lares para ejercerlos a
diciembre de 1993, destinados a la ejecuci6n del Segundo Proyecto de Desarrollo
Agricola Tropical (PRODERITH II). Posteriormente, el 30 de agosto de 1988, se
realiz6, con lo que el credito qued6 finalmente en 88.3 millones de d6lares. El
prestamo tenia como prop6sito financiar el 70% de las obras de infraestructura;
100% de adquisici6n de equipo y maquinaria; 100% de los costos de los servicios de
consultoria, estudios y capacitaci6n; los gastos recurrentes serian cubierto en 30% el
primer affo, reduciendose este porcentaje hasta el 5%, a partir del cuarto afio.
Desarrollo del proyecto.
2.2. A partir de enero de 1985, en apoyo a la Comisi6n del Plan Nacional Hidraulico
(CPNH), el BIRF realiz6 las misiones de preparaci6n para la puesta en marcha del
Segundo Proyecto de Desarrollo de Agricultura Tropical (PRODERITH II), en el
cual se consider6 conveniente aplicar la experiencia, metodos e instrumentos
generados en la primera etapa del PRODERITH. La formulaci6n del proyecto se
concluy6 en junio de 1985.
2.3. El prestamo se puso en efectividad a partir de 1986 y en diciembre de ese anio se
iniciaron las misiones de supervisi6n de la ejecuci6n del proyecto, con la
participaci6n conjunta de tecnicos del BIRF, de la Secretaria de Agricultura y
Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) y del Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua
(IMTA). En estas misiones se revisaron los avances de las componentes del
proyecto y los estados financieros del prestamo; se formularon las ayudas de
memoria con acuerdos y recomendaciones, para Ilevar a buen termino el desarrollo
de los trabajos y el desembolso oportuno de los recursos.
2.4. Los mecanismos previamente aprobados y establecidos para los desembolsos, asi
como la documentaci6n comprobatoria, fueron acreditados oportunamente por las
diversas instancias responsables del Banco.
2.5. En 1988, el Banco senial6 los progresos lentos en el desarrollo del proyecto debido
principalmente a los presupuestos reducidos, ademas de problemas en los
desembolsos por razones de tramite; por ello recomend6 pr6rrogas en los
dictamenes del banco para gastos de desembolso, tambien mostr6 su preocupaci6n
por los aspectos de impacto ambiental.
2.6. En 1989 mientras que en el pais se tomaban decisiones importantes para superar la
crisis econ6mica, se cre6 la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA), que se hizo cargo
del proyecto, a partir de entonces el Banco observ6 una reactivaci6n en el desarrollo
de este y constat6 las acciones para la atenci6n a los aspectos ambientales, en
particular las de conservaci6n de suelo y agua.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
62
2.7. En abril de 1991, se cre6 dentro de la CNA la Gerencia de Distritos de Drenaje que
tuvo como uno de sus objetivos principales, coordinar, dirigir, dar apoyo y evaluar
las acciones de PRODERITH II, a partir de entonces el Banco enfatiz6 sus
recomendaciones respecto al mantenimiento de la infraestructura y adquisici6n de
equipo para ese fin.
2.8. En febrero de 1992 el banco observ6 que a finales de 1991, deberian haber sido
desembolsados US$ 61.59 millones ya hasta esa fecha se habian desembolsado solo
US$ 26.348 millones, lo cual representaba el 30% del credito, por lo cual el BIRF
recomend6 elevar la asignaci6n presupuestal y reforzar la asesoria tecnica
especializada a fin de cumplir con los prop6sitos y las metas del proyecto.
2.9. En abril de 1993, ante lo reducido del avance en la inversi6n, tan solo el 37%, pero
al observarse una importante participaci6n de los productores de los distintos niveles
de gobierno; el Banco autoriz6 ampliar los plazos del PRODERITH II, por uno o
dos afios mas, con base en una propuesta tecnica formulada por la Gerencia de
Drenaje, ademas autoriz6 la contrataci6n de Unidades de Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica
(UCT), que prestaban servicios de asesoria tecnica especializada, mediante los
procedimientos y normatividad de construcci6n vigentes en Mexico.
2.10. En octubre de 1994, el BIRF autoriz6 una segunda ampliaci6n para el cierre del
prestamo 2658-ME, PRODERITH II, al 31 de diciembre de 1995.
2.11. En 1995, el Banco recomend6 que para mejorar la sostenibilidad del proyecto, el
presupuesto de 1996 contemplara la adquisici6n de maquinaria y equipo ligero; y su
transferencia a los usuarios organizados, la contrataci6n de las Unidades de
Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica (UCT), la continuidad de los proyectos productivos y
terminar la infraestructura complementaria.
2.12. En febrero de 1996, se realizo la filtima misi6n de supervisi6n; con objeto del cierre
del prestamo, los consultores del Banco, mostraron su satisfacci6n por la atencion a
sus recomendaciones.
Conclusi6n
2.13. El Banco realiz6 visitas de inspecci6n y supervisi6n al proyecto en forma
sistematica, hizo un seguimiento de los avances de obra y demas componentes que
el credito cubria; autoriz6 ampliar en dos antos el plazo del proyecto, lo que permiti6
terminar acciones inconclusas debido a los periodos en que los presupuestos
estuvieron por abajo de lo programada, mostr6 flexibilidad para utilizar recursos del
proyecto, en la consolidaci6n de otros de naturaleza similar, tambien financiados por
el BIRF, como el Proyecto San Fernando, Tamps. y el de Desarrollo Agricola de
Chiapas, con el prop6sito principal de alcanzar los objetivos que se habian
planteado, y en el espiritu de fomento al desarrollo planteado para las planicies
tropicales humedas del pais.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
63
3.    DESEMPENO DEL GOBIERNO
3.1. En el marco de una politica de adelgazamiento del aparato gubernamental y de
descentralizaci6n de medios y funciones a las organizaciones de usuarios, el
proyecto se sustent6 en una estrategia que puso enfasis en la participaci6n de los
productores, la coordinaci6n institucional y la consolidaci6n de una segunda etapa
para el desarrollo del tr6pico mexicano, previsto al inicia de PRODERITH.
3.2. En el periodo del proyecto se aplic6 en nuestro pais reformas estructurales que
dieron lugar a la reorganizaci6n de los servicios institucionales: Se cre6 el Instituto
Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua (IMTA) para la investigaci6n, desarrollo y
transferencia de tecnologia, ademas de la formaci6n de personal tecnico y
profesional en materia del agua; dentro del proyecto, este instituto llev6 a cabo
actividades de transferencia de tecnologia en materia de agua y suelo, cuantificacion
del uso del suelo y de cuantificaci6n del uso del suelo y de comunicaci6n rural.
3.3. Se constituy6 la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA), con el prop6sito de proponer
la politica hidraulica del pais que impulsa la construcci6n, operaci6n y
mantenimiento de las obras hidraulicas y la acciones requeridas para su
aprovechamiento integral. En 1991, dentro de la CNA se cre6 la Gerencia de
Distritos de Drenaje, que fue la responsable de conducir y coordinar las acciones del
proyecto y en 1994, cambi6 su nombre por el de Gerencia de Distritos de Temporal
Tecnificado y con ello, destac6 sus actividades de promover la transferencia de
infraestructura, maquinaria y funciones a los usuarios organizados y asegurar el
manteniniento y la operaci6n plena y sostenible de la infraestructura. Tambien
dentro de la CNA y a traves de la Gerencia de Construcci6n, se realiz6 la obra de
infraestructura.
3.4. Los servicios de extensi6n agricola que originalmente se Ilevaron a cabo a traves de
los Distritos de Desarrollo Rural, dependientes de la Secretaria de Agricultura y
Recursos Hidraulicos, desaparecieron del ambito institucional; no obstante en las
a.reas de proyecto, se promovi6 la constituci6n y operaci6n de Unidades de
Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica (UCT), que se transforrnaron en empresas de asesoria
t6cnica especializada para el desarrollo del tr6pico.
3.5. Tres institutos nacionales de investigaci6n agropecuaria y forestal se integraron en
uno solo, el Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Forestal, Agricola y Pecuarias, con
el cual las UCT tuvieron un contacto estrecho durante buena parte del proyecto y
llevaron a cabo importantes acciones de transferencia de tecnologia.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
64
Desarrollo del proyecto
3.6. Hasta 1988, el proyecto mostr6 un ritmo de inversi6n por debajo de lo programado,
debido a lo cual se cancel6 parte del prestamo. A partir de 1989, en la medida que
las crisis econ6mica se superaba, mejor6 la conducci6n del proyecto, los ritmos de
construcci6n de la obra y las acciones de conservaci6n de suelo y agua; ademas se
disefi6 un esquema de asesoria tecnica especializada bajo el concepto de constituir y
contratar Unidades Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica (UCT), mediante el rescate de
personal con experiencia, capacitado en la primera etapa del PRODERITH, que
perteneci6 a los cuadros gubernamentales de extensi6n agricola. Con estos equipos
se mejor6 la integralidad de las acciones entre la construcci6n de infraestructura, la
asistencia tecnica, la transferencia de tecnologia, la conservaci6n de suelo y agua, y
la organizaci6n de los usuarios, ademas se iniciaron las acciones de conservaci6n
normal de la infraestructura.
3.7. La construcci6n y la conservaci6n diferida de las obras de infraestructura se
realizaron mediante concursos por convocatoria puiblica o restringida, conforme a
los procedimientos de la Ley de Obras Piblicas y su Reglamento; tambien se
constituy6, capacit6 y se contrat6 empresas de servicios asesoria tecnica
especializada que no existian en el pais, en un inicio bajo modalidades de
adjudicaci6n directa; posteriormente, con base en la normatividad existente en
Mexico y procurando el mejoramiento de la calidad de los servicios, se realizaron
concursos por los procedimientos de invitaci6n restringida y convocatoria abierta.
3.8. Durante la etapa del proyecto se generaron diversos contratos, para la construcci6n
y conservaci6n de obra, supervisi6n, bienes y servicios y consultoria, asignados a
diversas empresas, cuyo desempefio puede considerarse como satisfactorio; cuando
fue necesario, se instrumentaron con oportunidad las recomendaciones y acciones
correctivas de auditoria alcanzandose de manera satisfactoria el cumplimiento de las
metas fisicas.
3.9. La mayor parte de la vida del proyecto se rigi6 por la aplicaci6n de la Ley Federal
de Reforma Agraria y la Ley Federal de Aguas, que signific6 una fuerte presencia de
la acci6n gubemamental en las acciones del proyecto. En la etapa final del proyecto
se promulg6 una nueva Ley Agraria y la Ley de Aguas Nacionales, que permitieron
condiciones para inducir procesos de descentralizaci6n, con una mayor participaci6n
econ6mica, financiera y social de los beneficiarios.
3.10. Dentro del Programa Nacional de Irrigaci6n y Drenaje 1990-1994, la Comisi6n
Nacional del Agua foment6 una mayor participaci6n de los usuarios en el manejo de
la infraestructura hidroagricola, buscando transferir a sus organizaciones las tareas
de operaci6n y mantenimiento.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
65
3.11. Los servicios de asesoria tecnica especializada tuvieron el prop6sito fundamental de
consolidar el proceso de transferencia de medios y funciones para lograr una mayor
eficiencia en la utilizaci6n de los recursos disponibles y mayor participaci6n de los
usuarios. Ademas, promovieron la producci6n y la conservaci6n de los recursos, la
utilizaci6n de los programas y recursos del sector agropecuario; fomentaron la
organizaci6n de los productores, los asesoraron y capacitaron en la conservaci6n de
la infraestructura, asi como en la operaci6n y mantenimiento de la maquinaria
disponible.
3.12. En lo referente a consultoria, fue muy importante la participaci6n del Servicio de
Conservaci6n de Suelos del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, en
los trabajos de conservaci6n de agua y suelo y drenaje parcelario, asi como tambien
la participaci6n de la Organizaci6n para la Agricultura y la Alimentaci6n de las
Naciones Unidas (FAO) en la planeaci6n, equipamiento, capacitaci6n, operaci6n y
evaluaci6n del sistema de comunicaci6n rural del PRODERITH.
4.       RESULTADOS
4.1. En infraestructura se construyeron un 64% mas de bordos, 33% mis caminos,
mientras que en drenes se construy6 el 58% de lo previsto; con la infraestructura
construida se alcanz6 una funcionalidad adecuada del proyecto, por lo que se
considera que las metas globales del proyecto se alcanzaron.
4.2. En el area ampliada del proyecto (PRODERITH II, San Fernando y Desarrollo
Agricola de Chiapas) se cuenta con una red de 7,077 km de drenes y carninos; la
cual redujo sus necesidades de conservaci6n diferida de 31% en 1991 a 20% en
1995, mientras que en el 12% de dicha red, se realiza anualmente conservaci6n
normal, con recursos y trabajo de los gobiernos estatales, municipales y los usuarios;
complementariamente y con el prop6sito de reducir los escurrimientos, azolves y el
deterioro general de la obra, en 219 mil ha se realizan practicas de conservaci6n de
agua, que equivale al 14% de la superficie agropecuaria y al 11% de la superficie
total; en este sentido se superaron las metas reprogramadas en tres veces mis.
4.3. Con el prop6sito de descentralizar la operaci6n y mantenimiento de la red de
infraestructura mencionada en el parrafo anterior, se cuenta con 18 asociaciones
civiles constituidas, con influencia en el 85% de la superficie beneficiada, ademas se
han tomado las medidas presupuestarias requeridas con el prop6sito de adquirir y
transferirles la maquinaria basica necesaria para conservar la infraestructura, realizar
practicas de conservaci6n de agua y suelo y construir drenaje parcelario.
4.4. El uso del suelo en los subproyectos del PRODERITH II pricticamente permaneci6
sin modificaciones sustantivas aunque se intensific6 su uso, en este canbio la
superficie agricola creci6 en 46%, mientras que la pecuaria se redujo en 12%. Los



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
66
cambios principales fueron en cultivos como la cania, que creci6 en un 121%, el
platano en 119%, y la piAa en 274%.
4.5. Las modificaciones en el uso del suelo se establecieron a partir de las ventajas
comparativas que ofreci6 el mejoramiento territorial asi como a las limitaciones y
posibilidades de acreditamiento financiero; debido a ello, no hubieron cambios
sustanciales en los cultivo anuales; sin embargo aument6 la carga animal en la
superficie pecuaria y las areas con cultivos perennes se expandieron
significativamente.
4.6. La producci6n, la productividad, los ingresos pudieron mejorarse sustancialmente en
las areas cultivadas con pastizales, frutales y hortalizas; los jomales generados por el
proyecto fueron en un 5% superiores a los previstos, en esto iltimo tuvo un peso
relevante el area con frutales y hortalizas.
4.7. La construcci6n de infraestructura y los metodos para promover la participacion de
los productores a traves de planes locales de desarrollo, incidieron en la instalaci6n
de servicios puiblicos como escuelas, centros de salud, energia electrica, agua
potable, de gran importancia para el alivio a la pobreza en el area del proyecto.
5.    CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
5.1. De acuerdo con los resultados obtenidos, la ejecuci6n del proyecto puede
considerarse satisfactoria, tanto por sus aportes a la producci6n nacional, las
acciones para la preservaci6n del medio ambiente, en particular el suelo y el agua,
como por su impacto para mitigar la pobreza, la generacion de empleo, asi como en
el mejoramiento de los ingresos de los productores, en particular del sector con
capacidad empresarial.
5.2. El prestamo fue suficiente para construir la infraestructura hidroagricola basica que
permiti6 un aprovechamiento mas pleno de los recursos naturales subutilizados
antes del proyecto; sin embargo, se requerirAn inversiones para concluir las obras
complementarias y mejorar la operaci6n del proyecto.
5.3. Es fundamental, continuar con los servicios de asesoria tecnica especializada, en
todos los aspectos de producci6n y conservaci6n, siempre encaminados a realizar
una actividad agropecuaria sustentable mejorando su rentabilidad, la cual
proporcione mayores beneficios para que los productores administren y cubran los
costos de la asesoria tecnica.
5.4. Las obras requieren conservaci6n y en virtud de su transferencia a los productores,
deberan aplicar los programas anuales de operaci6n y mantenimiento, evitando en la
medida de lo posible la conservaci6n diferida y reforzando la conservaci6n normal.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-il (LOAN 2658-ME)
67
5.5. En cada una de las areas de los subproyectos, es necesario el apoyo del sector
oficial, debera constituirse un grupo minimo operativo que: supervise, apoye y
promueva la sostenibilidad del proyecto, con base en la transferencia de funciones a
las organizaciones de usuarios constituidas, la conservaci6n de los recursos, en
particular el suelo y el agua, el mejoramiento de los ingresos de los productores, asi
como la promoci6n de las cuotas de autosuficiencia.



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-IH (Loan 2658-ME)
68
APPENDIX C: Subprojects Technical Summaries



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-l (LOAN 26K-ME)
69
SUBPROJECT: PUJAL-COY II
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S) SAN LUIS POTOSI, TAMAULIPAS AND VERACRUZ.
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED   TAMUIN (41.3%); SAN VICENTE (7.6%);EBANO (6.4%), TANLAJAS (1 3%)
VALLE (5.9%); AQUISMON (1.4%); MANTE (22.3%); VILLA GILZ. (1.0%)
(1.0%); ANTIGUO MORELOS (2.5%) AND PANUCO (10%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:              213,256 HAB  SAR          AND            282,700 HAB  (1990)             32 56%
RURALPOPULATION:               47,390HAB   SAR           AND             152,658HAB  (1990 )            222.13%
LAND USE                WITHOUT PROJECT              WITH PROJECT         I                 (%)
SAR     SATELLITE    SAR PROJ.    ACTUAL  JSAR ACHIEVEMENT             PHYSICAL GROWTH
1|000 HAI    P000OHAI     10OO HAI   I  000 HAI
STAPLE GRAINS                         54.53          1.18         172.22       37 10               21 54              68.03
RUITS/ORCHARDS                                      0.18                      31 .00                                   NA
UGARCANE                                            3 81                      10.00                                 262 46
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                                  0 10                      34.00                                    NA
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS                134.73         95.62         104 25       95.00               91.12               70.51
BUSH                                  23.00         64.37                       6 30                                  27.39
ORESTS                               80 90         80.91          53 22       80 88              151 97              99 98
OTHER      (1)                        3000          83.56                       35.43                                 11810
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES                           9.54          2.99           3.00         2 99              99 67              31 34
TOTAL PROJ. AREA               332.70       332.70         332.70       332.70              100.00              100.00
C-)
INFRASTRUCTURE              UNIT              TARGEITS              ACTUAL               ACHIEVEMENT I(%)
MAR      MID. TERM REIWtI                   SAR        I      M.T.R.
ROADS                               KM             216.00                      105.00              48 61
DRAINS                              KM             37900                        56.00              1478
SOIL CONSERVATION                   HA          30,000.00                   42.49400              141.65
STRUCTURES                         STR              20.00                       1200               6000
CLEARED GROUND                      HA          52.030.00                    6.819 00              1311'
STORAGE FAC                        TON          85,000.00                   18.000.00              2118
RTESLAN WELL                     WELL
PUMPING PLANT()                   PLANT                            12 00        3.00                                  2500
OTHER  ( )I   MOD                                    2.00                       200               10000
CATTLE MODULE                      UNIT              1.00                       1.00
INPUTSTORAGE                       UNIT             15.00                       900                6000
MOLASSES TANKS                     UNIT              1.00                       1.00
ON-FARM DRAINS                      HA          20,00000                        0 00               20 05
URBAN INF
ATERSUPPLYIL                                                      3.00         3.001                                10000
(AA)
('- ACCIONES NO PROGRAMADAS EN EL APPRAISAL



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-Il (LOAN 2659-ME)
70
SUBPROJET: PUJAL-COY 11
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)          |           SAR                  ACTUAL       |
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                       75,896.00            8,281.00         11
EQUIP. AND MACHINE                                                   4,160.00                0.00           0
RECURRENT COST                                                      29,978.00            5,228.00          1?7
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                              NA              5,062.00
RESEARCH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                   NA                  0.00
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                         NA              7,577.00
CONSULTANCY                                                            NA                145.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                                     NA                417.00
IVA                                                                    NA              1,641.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX  1                         32,045.00            14,842.00         48
1.42,077O            26.00             2
ESTIMATED PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES                     UNIT         SAR              ACTUAL             h
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                                  MAN.EAR            5,235.00           16,578.00      316.68
NET INCREMENT INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:                  ANTICIPATED SAR                  ACTUAL
TIR                                           28.35%               11.5%
NPV (USS million)                                                         3.41
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
PUJAL-COY IS PRIMARILY A SETTLEMENT PROJECT.
IT IS NOT LOCATED IN HUMID TROPIC BUT IN
A TRANSITIONAL ARE WHICH IS SEMI-ARID
OR THIS REASON, THE ORIGINALLY PLANNED AGRICULTURAL PROJECT WAS CONVERTED IN A
IVESTOCK PROJECT, WHICH FITS BETTER TO THE PREVAILING NATURAL CONDITIONS.
DUE TO THIS PROBLEMS, PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DELAYED
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (I): UNSATISFACTORY (PARTIAL)                       SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LiKELY, UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-I (LOAN 2658-ME)
71
SUBPROJECT: CENTRO DE VERACRUZ
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S) VERACRUZ
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED MEDELLIN DE BRAVO (%). JAMAPA (%) AND MANLIO FABIO ALTAMIRANO (%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION                   47,775 HAB SAR             AND              55,700 HAB (1990)          16 59%
RURAL POPULATION:                  39,831 HAB SAR             AND              47,345 HAB (1990)          18 86%
LAND USE               WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT
SAR      SATELLITE       5AR PROJ.        ACTIUAL     OAR ACHIEVEMENT     PHYSiAL GROWTh
I ______________________       (000 HA)    (OOO HA)         ( 000 HA)      (000 HA) -                    .
STAPLE GRAINS                       23.40        20.70               35 80       9.00                25 14              38.46
FRUITS/ORCHARDS                      7 60                            10 00       7 80                78.00             102.63
SUGAR CANE                                        3.30                           1.00
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                                                             21.90
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS               36 10        22 70               22.40      22.00                98 21              60 94
BUSH                                             16.40                           2.00
FORESTS                              9.00        13.40                7.90      12.00               151.90             133.33
OTHER   ()                           0.70                             0.70       1.10               157.14             157.14
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES                                      0.30
TOTAL PROJ. AREA            - 76.90        76.90     -         7.80       7B.80              100.00              100.00
(--
INFRASTRUCTURE             UNIT               TARGITS                ACTUAL               ACHIEV!EM 1T (%    _
SAR        MID. TERM REVIEW                    SAR                M.T.R.
ROADS                             KM            108 00                         189.00               175 00
DRAINS                            KM             24 80                          51 30              206.85
DIKES                             KM                                 l2.50      12 50                                  100.00
STRUCTURES                        STR           135 00                         135.00               100 00
SOILS CONSERVATION                HA           5,000.00                       8,951.00              179.02
LAND CLEARING                     HA            500.00                        1.095 00             219.00
STORAGEFAC                        TON         12,000 00                      12,000 00             100 00
OTHER
CATTLE MODULE                     MOD                                 3 00       3 00                                  100.00
FEEDS BLENDING PLANT              UNIT                                1 00       1.00                                  100.00
ON-FARM DRAINAGE                  HA           3,00000                        3,190 00             106.33
FACTORY                           UNIT            1 00                           0 00                0.00
STUDIES                           EST                                 3 00       2.00                                   86.67



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2653-ME)
72
SUBPROJECT: CENTRO DE VERACRUZ
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USS '000 of 1996)
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTSJ(US$000)                   SARt                 ACMJAL            %
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                8,803.00            5,704.00       65
EQUIP. AND MACHINE                                            1,581.00            1,150.00       73
RECURRENT COST                                                4,192.00            1.037.00       2
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                      NA                292.00
RESEARCH                                                                                        *
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                  NA                87.00
CONSULTANCY                                                     NA                 0.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                              NA               285.00
IVA                                                             NA               669.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX (1)                   4,156.00            1 333.00
TOTAL PUBLIC INVESTMENTS.1720                                            *2,04
ESTIMATEDj RIVAI E INVESTMENTS
(1) At SAR level the itemseon.upport services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES.                 UNIT         S               AlTUAL
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                            MAN.YEAR          3,150.00            5,046.00    160.19
NET INCREMENTA INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:               ANTICIPATED SAR                 ACTUAL
ERR                                    30%                         21.5%
NPV (US$ million)                                                        5.37
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
INFRASTRUCTURE IS SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL IS STILL GROWING.
PINEAPPLE AND MANGO ARE THE MAIN PRODUCTS LINKED TO BO FH, NATIONAL AND EXPORT MARKETS.
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): SATISFACTORY                     SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY. UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERIT11-D (LOAN 205-ME)
73
SUBPROJECT: TESECHOACAN
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S): VERACRUZ
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED: CHACALTIANGUIS (%); AND VILLA AZUETA (%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:                 8,220 HAB SAR            AND              10,560 HAB               28.47%
RURAL POPULATION:                  5,260 HAB SAR            AND              8,350 HAB                58.75%
LAND USE              WIThOUT PROJECT,             WITH PROJECT  , ,,,,   _.        ,     (
SAR     SATELLITE        SAR PROJ.      ACTUAL    SAR ACHIEVEMENT      PHYSICAL GROWTH
('000 HA)    COO0 NA)       C000 HA)       (o00 HA)       _                .       . _
STAPLE GRAINS                       1.60        4.20                4.40      5.10              115.91            318.75
FRUITS/ORCHARDS                     0.80        0.10               1.00                           0.00              0.00
SUGAR CANE                          4.30        3.30                4.00      8.20              205.00            190.70
PASTURES (IMPROVED)
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS               7.10        5.10               6.90       4.10               59.42             57.75
BUSH                                            4.10               1.00
FORESTS                             0.70        1.13               0.70       0.20               28.57             28.57
OTHER   ()                          0.40                                      0.20                                 50.00
URBAN AREAS                         0.30                                      0.20                                 66.67
WATER BODI ES                       2.          0.07                                                                0.00
TOTAL PROJ. AREA             1A00o       13.00               100          00              100.00            100.0
(*)
INFRASTRUCTURE           UNIT                TARGETS              ACTUAL               ACHIEVEMENT I%)
SAR        MID. TERM REVIEW                   SAR               M.T.R.
ROADS                            KM            26.50                         84.00              316.98
DRAINS                           KM            47.30                         73.50              155.39
DIKES                            KM                               18.00      18.50                                102.78
STRUCTURES                      STR            73.00                         73.00              100.00
SOIL CONSERVATION                HA                                0.00   3,828.00
OTHER (**)
STORAGE                         MOD             1.00                          0.00                0.00
ON-FARM DRAINAGE                 HA          3,000.00                       900.00               30.00



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
74
SUBPROJECT: TESECHOACAN
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USS '0C0 of 1995)
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (USS000)                - SAR                    ACTUAL                      .
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                 5,073.00             3,667.00               72
EQUIP. AND MACHINE                                             1,874.00                0.00                 0
RECURRENT COST                                                 3,525.00             1,874.00               53
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                       NA                586.00
RESEARCH                                                         NA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                             NA                  0.00
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                   NA                 67.00
CONSULTANCY                                                      NA                 16.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                               NA                879.00
IVA                                                              NA                492.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX (1)                    2,781.00             2,040.00               73
TOTAL PUBLIC INVESTMENTS                            13 253.00           . 7,681.00               67
ESTIMAtED PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES                  UNIT         SAR              ACTUAL                 %|
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                            MAN.YEAR          2,801.00             4,148.00             159.48
NET INCREMENT INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS                                                                                       .
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:               ANTICIPATED SAR                       ACTUAL
ERR                                    35.00%                           15.70%
NPV (USS million)                                                             3.38
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
INFRASTRUCTURE TOTALLY COMPLETED.
GOOD SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS.
ON-FARM DRAINAGE IS PENDING TO COMPLETION
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): SATISFACTORY                      SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY. UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY, UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
75
SURPROJECT: ZANAPA-TONALA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S): TABASCO
MUNICIPALITY (OES) INCLUDED: HUIMANGUILLO (100%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:                   27,414 HAB SAR         AND                32.597 HAB        (1990)             18.91%
RURAL POPULATION:                   20.560 HAB SAR         AND                26.464 HAB        (1990)             28.72%
LAND USE ('000 HA)           WITHOUT PROJECT             NWTH PROJECT
SAR      SATELLITE      SAR PROJ.       ACTUAL.    SAR ACHiEVPirINw     PHYItCAL GROWTH
4 000 HA)    (000 HA)      ( 000 HA)      (000 HA) _
STAPLE GRAINS                             3.40          NA               23.54       5.80               24.64            170.59
FRUITS/ORCHARDS                           1.10        10.20                         13.90                               1,263.64
SUGAR CANE                                             2.00
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                      37.30        36.80                          4.90                                 13.14
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS                    30.00        31.40              58.26      70.20              120.49            234.00
BUSH
FORESTS                                  35.00        22.80              22.00       9.00               40.91             25.71
OTHER   ()                                3.00         6.60               6.00       6. |               00.00            200.00
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES
TOTAL PROJ. AREA               109.80       109.80             109.80     109.80              10000             100.00
INFRASTRUCTURE               UNIT               TARGETS               ACTUAL              ACHIEVEMENT (M)
SAR        MID. TERM REVIEW                   SAR               M.T.R.
ROADS                                  KM            364.00             254.00     103.62
DRAINS                                 KM            126.00              89.00     149.00              118.25            167.42
STRUCTURES                             STR           356.00             381.00     326.00               91.57             90.30
SOIL CONSERVATION                       HA                            10,000.00    9,156.00                               91.56
LAND CLEARING (H) NA                               10,000.00          10,000.00    150.00                1.50              1.50
STORAGE FAC.(.)                        STO                                3.00       3.00                                 100.00
OTHER  (.) (.)                                                            4.00       4.00                                 100.00
SEDIMENT REMOVE BLASILLO RIVER (. )     KM                               19.60      33.00                                 168.37
DESIGN ( )                             No.                                3.00       0.00                                  0.00
JACUACULTURE UNIT ()UNIT                                                  1.00       1.00                                 10000
(.) CATTLE MODULE, MOLASSES CENTER
() ACCIONES NO PROGRAMADAS EN EL SAR



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-il (LOAN 2658-ME)
76
SUBPROJECT: ZANAPA-TONALA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USS '000 of 13s))
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)                     SAM                   ACTUAL
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                    25,745.00            15,216.00          59.00
EQUIP. AND MACHINERY                                               2,272.00                                0.00
RECURRENT COST                                                     7,845.00             2,496.00          32.00
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                            NA               530.00             NA
RESEARCH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                       NA                365.00             NA
CONSULTANCY
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                                   NA                132.00             NA
IVA                                                                  NA              1,744.00             NA
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX 1                         11.215.00             2-771.00         405.00
, ::Z!;.'.'.,*9f;t,:5;'.A*flz/ ~.,.,.... t
.?t TOTA P          'BL   INVESTMEM,                     770                     080                  44
ESTIMATED PRIVATE INVESTMENTS :-.
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES :UNIT                            SAR             ACTUAL               %
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                                 MAN.YEAR           15,385                6,176           40.14
NET INCREMENT INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC ANO FINANCIAL INDICATORS.                  ANTICIPATED SeAR                   ACTUAL 
TIR                                      313%                           13.4%
NPV (USS million)                               NA                            13.69
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
INFRASTRUCTURE SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED.
MACRODRAINAGE IN EL BLASILLO RIVER IS ON-GOING
SUCCESSFULL AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO FARMERS IS EFFECTIVE
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): SATISFACTORY                                     SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
Ill HIGHLY SATI8FACTORY, SATISFACTORY. UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
121 LIKELY. UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
77
SUBPROJECT: ORIENTE DE YUCATAN
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S): YUCATAN
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED:  TOZMIN (59.4%); TEMOZON (9.9%); CALOTMUL (5.2%); CHEMAX (19.6%)
VALLADOLID (2.6%) AND RIO LAGARTOS (3.0%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:            84,385 HAB SAR          AND                 88,663 HAB (1993)         5.07%
RURAL POPULATION:            41,939 HAB SAR          AND                 44,331 HAB (1993)         5.70%
LANO USE              WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT          |               ____             |
SAR     SATELUTE         SAR PROJ.        ACTUAL   AR ACHIEVEMENT   PHYSIC  GROWTH
_4000 HA)   ('000 HA)       t(000 HA)                 _____ HA)
STAPLE GRAINS                      29.00     NA                     26.49      49.30         186.11             170.00
FRUITSIORCHARDS                                                                 1.30                               NA
SUGAR CANE
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                91.46                            91.46      91.46                            100.00
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS             151.47                           153.98     153.98         100.00             101.66
BUSH                               33.07                            33.07      33.07                            100.00
FORESTS                           260.00                           260.00     260.00                            100.00
OTHER   ()                        110.00                           110.00      85.89                             78.00
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES
TOTAL PROJ. ARA        I    75.00                             70,f      *7S0           100.00             100,00
(.)
INFRASTRUCTURE            UNIT                TARGETS               ACTUAL            ACHIEVEMENT
SAR         Mub. TERM Ri1WW                  SAR             M.T.R.
ROADS                            Ki            170.00                         188.00         110.59
STRUCTURES                       STR            47.00                          30.00          63.83
SOIL CONSERVATION                HA              0.00                        5,496.00
LAND CLEARING                    HA                               2,000.00    880.00                             44.00
STORAGE FAC.                     STO             2.00                3.00       3.00         150.00             100.00
TUBE WELL                       WELL            24.00                          26.00         108.33
PUMPING PLANT                   PLANT           28.00                          28.00         100.00
OTHER  ()                       MOD             86.00                          39.00          59.09
(") CATTLE MODULE, MOLASSES CENTER



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
78
SUBPROJECT: ORIENTE DE YUCATAN
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USS 000 of 1996)
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)                      SAR                   ACTUAL             %
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                      10,004.00            6,135.00        61
QUIP. AND MACHINE                                                    738.00                 0.00         0
ECURRENT COST                                                      3,653.00             4,126.00       113
UPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                             NA                150.00
RESEARCH                                                                .
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                  NA                 530.00
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                                            0.00
CONSULTANCY                                                                               0.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                                                        0.00
IVA                                                                   NA                878.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX (1)                         4,301.00             1,558.00        36
TOTAL PUDUC INVESTMENTS   :                            iS 186.Q0 ~.11,819C0                 63
ESTIMATED PRIVATE INVTMIIENTS
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES                     UNIT         SAR              ACTUAL             %
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                                 MAN YEAR           4,166.28             7,943.00    190.65
NET INCREMENTA INCOME                                                3.58                 4.00       1.12
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:                  ANTICIPATED SAR                   ACTUAL
ERR                                        20%                          9.8%
NPV (USS million)                                                           -0.09
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY.
PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE PLAYED A MAJOR ROLE
IN THE REGION DEVELOPMENT, REQUIRES MORE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO GROW ITS POTENTIAL
OVERALL OUT COME RESUI (1): SATISFACTORY                                 SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY, UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-li (LOAN 2658-ME)
79
SUBPROJECT: EL BEJUCO
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S) NAYARIT
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED: ROSAMORADA (90%) AND RUIZ (10%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:                  14,148 HAB SAR             AND              19797 HAB (1990)          39.93%
RURAL POPULATION:                   8,079 HAB SAR             AND              13,685 HAB (1990)         69.39%
LAND USE               WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT
IAR      SATELLITE       SAR PROJ.       ACTUAL      SAR ACHIEVEMENT     PHYSICAL CROWTH
I ___________________ _         (000 HAI   ( 000 HA)        (00  HA        ('000 HA)                                       I
STAPLE GRAINS                       12.00    13.50                   14.20      16.60              116.90             138.33
FRUITS/ORCHARDS                                                       1.30                           0.00
SUGAR CANE
PASTURES (IMPROVED)
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS                2.00         2.00               5.70       2.00                35.09             100.00
BUSH                                 7.80         9.20                           3.30                                  42.31
FORESTS                              1.80         1.20                1.80       1.30               72.22              72.22
OTHER    (                                        0.20                           0.10                                    NA
URBAN AREAS                                                          0.30        0.10               33.33                NA
WATER BODIES                         0.40         0.30               0.70        0.60               85.71             150.00
TOTAL PROJ. AREA              24.00        26.40              24.0       24.00               1000               100.00
(.)
INFRASTRUCTURE             UNIT               TARGETS               ACTUAL               ACHIEVEMENT (%)
5AR        MID. TERM REVIEW        IAR                           M.T.R.
ROADS                             KM            103.00                         104.00              100.97
DRAINS                            KM            106 00                         41.00                38.68
DIKES                             KM             45.50                           3.00                6.59
STRUCTURES                        STR            23.00                         36.00               156.52
SOIL CONSERVATION                 HA           2,500.00                      1,130.00               45.20
STORAGE FAC.                      STO         20,000.00                          0.00                0.00
OTHER ()
ON-FARM DRAINAGE                  HA           2,000.00                         0.00                 0.00
SOIL ADEQUACY                     HA           1,500.00                         0.00                 0.00
MOLASSES TANKS                   UNIT            12.00                          0.00                 0.00
FACTORY                          UNIT             1.00                          0.00                 0.00
OFFICE                            UNIT            1.00                          0.0(                 0.00



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-lI (LOAN 26S8-ME)
80
SUBPROJECT: EL BEJUCO
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USS '000 of 1995)
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)                  SAR.                  ACTUAL       |
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                    NA              3,568.00               NA
EQUIP. AND MACHINE                                                                    0.00
RECURRENT COST                                                    NA                280.00               NA
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                                          0.00
RESEARCH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                               0.00
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                                     0.00
CONSULTANCY                                                                        0.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                              NA                168.00               NA
IVA                                                             NA               414.00                NA
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX N1)                      AN                 582.00               NA
TOTAL PUL1IS          T                                 NA                                     NA
ESTIMAYK PRtIVATE INVESThIONTS.
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not spit by subproject.
SOCtAL OUTCOMES                  UNIT:.       SAR      T      ACTUAL -
ANTICPATED
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                   ;       .   .
JOB GENERATION                            MAN.YEAR          6,500.00            3,935.00             60.54
NET INCREMENT INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:               ANTICIPATED SAR                     ACTUAL
ERR                                    31.4%                           19.1%
NPV (USS million)                           42.4                             2.52
C/B                                    1.19
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE COMPLETED.
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL STILL PENDING.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION RESULTS ARE OUTSTANDING.
EXPANSION REQUIRES ADDITIC'NAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): SATISFACTORY        SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SA7ISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY, UNLIKELY, UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITI-I-I (LOAN 2658-ME)
It
SUBPROJECT: LA SIERRA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (8): TABASCO
MUNICIPALITY (ES) INCLUDED: TEAPA (28.6%); TACOTALPA (29.8%); AND JALAPA (41.4%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:              22,904 HAS SAR           AND            23,381 HAB  (1992)               2.05%
RURAL POPULATION:              15,118HAS SAR            AND            16,428HAS  (1992)                8.65%
LAND uSE                WITHOUT PROJECT             WITH PROJECT
SAR      SATELLITE      SAR PROJ.    ACTUAL        &AR ACHISMUNT       PHYTICAL GROWTH
I ___________________________   1'000 HA)   ('000 HA)      (000 HA)    1'000 HAO  
STAPLE GRAINS                         0,00          0.00           3.33       0.30                  9.01                NA
FRUIT8/ORCHARDS                       0.60          1.00           6.90       4.20                 60.87             700.00
SUGAR CANE                            2.30          1.10           1.62        1.00                61.69              43.46
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                  10.20         10.70          1 5.50      12.30                79.35             120.59
NATURAL ORAZING AREAS                11.00         11.30                      10.50                                   95.45
BUSH
FORESTS                               7.50          7.50           5.65       3.50                 61.95              48.67
OTHER   ()                            1.40          1.40                       1.20                                   68.71
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES
TJJ.         ARNA              33.00         10.00          0.06r     .                     100300         ,   00.D0
INFRASTRUOTURE             UNIT              TARIETS              ACTUAL               ACHIEVEM  NT I%)
:  . :   AR  MID. TTRM REIEW                SAR                M.T,R.
ROADS                              KM              43.90                     68.00                154.90
DRAINS                             KM             123.30                     104.00                84.35
DIKES                              KM              46.00                      17.00                36.96
STRUCTURES                         STR            309.00                     97.00                 31.39
SOIL CONSERVATION (       )        HA                           3,637.00    3,637.00                                 100.00
OTHER  (1)                         MOD                             2.00        2.00                                  100.00
DESIONS ('n                     CONTRAC                            1.00        1.00                                  100.00
ON-FARM DRANAGE (                  HA                           2,546.00    2,546.00                                 100.
( ) ACCIIONeS NO PROGRAMADO   EN EL SM



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-11 (LOAN 2658-ME)
SUBPROJECT: LA SIERRA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)              SAR                  ACTUAL           %
INFRASTRUCTURE                                             NA             17,157.00
EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY                                                       0 00
RECURRENT COST                                             NA              1,966.00
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                               NA              1,65000
RESEARCH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                       000
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                           NA               801.00
CONSULTANCY                                                                0.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                                         0.00
IVA                                                      NA             1171.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX (I)                NA              3.622.00       NA
OTLPUBLIC INVESTMENTS.K I::i:::i N Y:  : ::      NA '           22.7450        N tA
ESTIMAtED PRIVATE INW54TMENTSt  ..
1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES              UNIT:     SAR               ACTUAL            %
ANTICIPATED
JOB GENERATION                      MAN.YEAR         4,368.00           8,828.00    202.11
NET INCREMENTA INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:           ANTICIPATED MAR                ACTUAL
TIR                                     14.30                 14.6%
NPV (USS million)                                                  4.86
C/B                                      1.17
SUBPROJECT OUTCOMt:
VERY SUCCESSFUL PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE IS SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION IS SUCCESSFUL
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION INCREASED SUBSTANTIALLY
AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE RURAL POPULATION IS AT FULL CAPACITY
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): HIOHLY SATISFACTORY           SUSTAINABILITY (2): LIKELY
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY, HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY, UNLIKELY. UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH- (LWAN 2653ME)
83
SUBPROJECT: ISLA RODRIGUEZ CLARA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
APPENDIX C
PAGE 1 OF 2
STATE (S) VERACRUZ
MUNICIPALITY (IES) INCLUDED: JUAN RODRIGUEZ CLARA (100%)
(GROWTH)
TOTAL POPULATION:                  4,259 HAB SAR            AND              6,260 HAB (1990)         46.98%
RURAL POPULATION:                  4,259 HAB SAR            AND              6260 HAB (1990)          46.98%
LAND USE              WITHOUT PROJECT              WITH PROJECT          ___
SAR     SATELLITE        SAR PROJ.       ACTUAL    LAR ACHIEVEMENT     PHYSICAL GROWTH
X000 HA)   '(000 HA        (000 HA)       '000 HA)         _
STAPLE GRAINS                       6.60     NA                     9.20      8.50               92.39             128.79
FRUITS/ORCHARDS                    0  80                            0.30                          0.00              0.00
SUGAR CANE
PASTURES (IMPROVED)                 0.10                            2.60                          0.00              0.00
NATURAL GRAZING AREAS               5.30                            0.70      4.30              614.29             81.13
BUSH
FORESTS                             0.80                            0.80      0.80              100.00             100.00
OTHER   ()                          0.10                            0.10       0.10             100.00             100.0
URBAN AREAS
WATER BODIES
TOTAL PROJ. AREA             13.701370                                  13.701            100.00I            100.0
(')
INFRASTRUCTURE           UNIT                TARGETS               ACTUAL              ACHIEVEMENT
SAR        MID. TERM RIVilW                   SAR               M.T.R.
ROADS                            KM            96.70                         40.00               41.37
DRAINS                           KM            75.00                          0.00                0.00
SOIL CONSERVATION                HA          5,700.00                         0.00                0.00
STORAGE FAC.                    TON          6,000.00                          0.00               0.00
OTHER  ( )                                                                                                              I
MOLASSES TANKS                  UNIT            8.00                          0.00                0.00
FACTORY                         UNIT            1.00                          0.00                0.001
STUDIES                          No                                 0.00      2.00



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-I1 (LOAN 2653-ME)
34
SUBPROJECT: ISLA RODRIGUEZ CLARA
TECHNICAL AND EVALUATION SUMMARY
(USE '000 of 1995)
APPENDIX C
PAGE 2 OF 2
PROJECT INVESTMENTS (US$000)                 SAR                  ACtUAL
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                  NA              1,577.00
EQUIP. AND MACHINE                                                                 0.00
RECURRENT COST                                                  NA               373.00
SUPPORT SERVICES:
EXTENSION                                                                        0.00
RESEARCH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                             0.00
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                NA                39.00
CONSULTANCY                                                                      0.00
STUDIES AND DESIGN                                            NA               425.00
IVA                                                           NA               226.00
SUBTOTAL OF SUBPROJECT SERVICES AND TAX (1)                                      690.00
TOTAL PULCINVESTMENTS
ESTIMATIED PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
(1) At SAR level the items of support services were not split by subproject.
SOCIAL OUTCOMES                 UNIT        SA   i           ACTUAL       :   1
.                 _ 0 i 0 _ _X0 0 X~~~ANTICIPATED          
JOB GENERATION                           MAN.YEAR         2,155.00            1,704.00    79.07
NET INCREMENT INCOME
ANOTHER INDICATORS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS:   f         ANTICIPATED SAR                 ACTUAL
ERR                                  37.50%                      11.4%
NPV (US$ million)                                                      0.12
C/B
SUBPROJECT OUTCOME:
THIS SUBPROJECT WAS NOT COMPLETED AND SHOULD BE EVALUATED LATER.
INTERIM RESULTS ARE PROMISING.
REQUIRES MUCH MORE INVESTMENTS.
OVERALL OUT COME RESULT (1): NA                SUSTAINABILITY (2): NA
(1) HIGHLY SATISFACTORY, SATISFACTORY, UNSATISFACTORY. HIGHLY UNSATISFACTORY
(2) LIKELY. UNLIKELY. UNCERTAIN



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-1l (Loan 2658-ME)
85
APPENDIX D: Map



NEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
86



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
87
APPENDIX E: List of Main Reports and Documents used in the ICR



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (LOAN 2658-ME)
88
APPENDIX E
List of Main Reports and Documents Used in the ICR
1. CNA-BASIN, Programa de Desarrollo Rural del Tr6pico Huimedo, Segunda Etapa
(PRODERITH II), Evaluaci6n Ex-post. Febrero 1996;
2. CNA, Subdirecci6n General de Operaci6n. Estudios de Factibilidad de los subproyectos
PRODERITH II;
3. CNA, Subdirecci6n General de Operaci6n. Gerencia de Distritos de Temporal Tecnificado.
Infonne de Avances de PRODERITH II ,a Diciembre de 1995;
4. CNA, Gerencias Regionales del Sureste y Noroeste. Informaci6n estadistica sobre los
subproyectos;
5. CNA, Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura Hidroagricola. Desarrollo Integral del Tr6pico
Huimedo;
6. ENTREVISTAS varias con beneficiarios y tecnicos en areas seleccionadas de los
subproyectos PRODERITH II;
7. IMTA, Terminos de referencia para establecer las Unidades de Cooperaci6n Tecnol6gica
(UCT) en el ambito de los proyectos PRODERITH. 1989;
8. IMTA, Coordinaci6n de Tecnologia Hidrol6gica. Interpretaci6n de Imigenes Satelitales para
Cuantificaci6n del Cambio de Uso de Suelo en 9 Unidades y 2 Proyectos de Drenaje
(PRODERITH II) para 1979/86 y 1993.
9. SARH, CPNH, Proderith. Estudio sociecon6mico y tecnico productivo, proyecto el Bejuco Nay.
1985;
10. SARH, CPNH, Proderith. Memoria General, proyecto Pujal Coy II. 1985;
11. SARH, CPNH, Proderith. Resumen General del Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural Integrado del
Tr6pico Hu1medo, Proderith II, documento de factibilidad, misi6n de evaluaci6n BIRF, mayo,
1985;
12. SARH-Proderith. Proyecto Oriente de Yucatan, evaluaci6n 1986, 1987;
13. WORLD BANK. Staff Appraisal Report, Mexico, Second Tropical Agricultural Development
Project (PRODERITH II), February 7, 1986;
14. WORLD BANK. Staff Appraisal Report, Mexico, Chiapas Agricultural Development Project.
February 13, 1985;
15. WORLD BANK. Staff Appraisal Report, Mexico, Tropical Agricultural Development Project.
January 16, 1978;
16. WORLD BANK. LAC Files PRODERITH-II, Project Supervision Reports (14)



MEXICO SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODERITH-II (Loan 2658-ME)
89
APPENDIX F: Satellite Imagery Interpretation Maps
Given the volumenous material (16 color pages), this is available in LAC Files and the
Mexico Res. Rep. Mission Files.






MAP SECTION



I



I.eosoIl  ASon D.egoA MEX I C0
PRODERITH 11 PROJECT
~jA L   . ......                      oA2&SUBPROJECT   AREAS
Lv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z? S. ! ' -oS =_
1=  T.1 i-                                                C
E-,, d.- d.
M.__ -,d                                                                        C       A T       AAd
R  _- REod.
-    5.,.'. b  ou,do4,,
AAPA                                                  -                    /                                                      '..
CENTRO DE                                                                                              QUINTANAOATA  M,o,,Oo 
VERACRUZ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     .I 












