Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24404-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38560; SCL-3856A; CPL-38570; SCL-38576; SCPD-3857S; SCL-38580)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 700 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FSDP)
June 25, 2002
Finance & Private Sector Development
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. I = US$ 0.020454
US$ I = Rs.48.89
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FSDP          Financial Sector Development Project
GOI           Government of India
SAL/SAC       Structural Adjustment Loan/Structural Adjustment Credit
SSN           Social Safety Net. Sector Adjustment Credit
ESIL          Extemal Sector and Investment Loan
PB            Participating Public Sector Banks (six)
PSB           Public Sector Banks
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
BSF           Back-stop facility
CRL           Capital Restructuring Loan
MDL           Modernization and Institutional Development Loan
RBI           Reserve Bank of India
IDBI          Industrial Development Bank of India
MOF           Ministry of Finance of Government of India
CAR           Capital Adequacy Ratio
NPA           Non-perfonning Advances
VRS           Voluntary Retirement Scheme
PMU           Project Monitoring Unit
DBOD          Department of Banling Operations and Development of the Reserve Bank
MTR           Mid-term Review
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director   Marilou Uy
Task Team Leader     Priya Basu



INDIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FSDP)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Perfonnance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                16
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results - A Summary                                   33



Project ID: P0 10563                                    Project Name: FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ.
(FSDP)
Team Leader: Priya Basu                                 TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)            LIC/TF Number: CPL-38560;
SCL-3856A;
CPL-38570;
SCL-38576;
SCPD-3857S;
SCL-38580
Country/Department: INDIA                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/28/94                              Effective: 03/27/95          03/27195
Appraisal:  07/29/94                                MTR: 01/30/98             07/22/98
Approval: 03/23/95                                Closing: 10/31/2001         10/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Govt of India and Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)/Reserve Bank of
India
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimuzu                         Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Marilou Jane D. Uy                       Luis Emesto Derbez
Team Leader at ICR:  Priya Basu                               Mansoor Dailami
ICR Primary Author:  Deena Khatkhate
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=-Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective and design of the Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP) should be
assessed in the context of a double paradigm shift in the early 1990's in both India's macroeconomic policy
and the World Bank's lending policy towards India. In mid-1991, the Government of India (GOI) embarked
on a reform program to steer the economy out of a serious economic crisis. This constituted a decisive
break from the G01's earlier interventionist approach to economic policy, and opened a window of
opportunity for the Bank to play a facilitating role in India's reform process. The Bank, departing from its
narrowly focused country assistance strategy prior to 1991 of providing project lending with limited policy
content, began to place a strong emphasis on the structural transformation of the economy including the
financial sector. This was done through the first-ever structural adjustment loan (SAL/SAC) and two other
subsequent loans, the External Sector and Investment loan (ESIL) and the Social Safety-Net Sector
Adjustment Credit (SSN). A fairly quick completion of the SALISAC and ESIL and good implementation
of policies directed at economy-wide structural reforms set the stage for the US$ 700 miUion financial
sector specific loan - the FSDP- approved in March, 1995.
The main objective of the FSDP, as articulated in the Staff Appraisal Report dated February 24,
1995 was to carry forward the GOI's broad financial sector reform strategy and policy of fostering greater
market orientation, allocative efficiency, technical competence and competition in India's financial system
and contribute to meeting the long-term financing needs, including foreign currency needs, of investors as a
means of stimulating economic growth. This objective was sought to be achieved through the capital
restructuring and modernization/institutional development of selected six participating public sector banks
(PBs)--Allahabad Bank, Bank of India, Dena Bank, Indian Bank, Indian Overseas Bank and Syndicate
Bank-out of the country's twenty-seven Public Sector Banks (PSBs). The combined loans and advances of
the six PBs accounted for about 17 percent of the total loans and advances of all PSBs in India, and their
combined deposits accounted for about 18 percent of the total deposits of all PSBs. The project also
included a Back-stop Facility (BSF) which would assist eligible banks and financial institutions (including,
but not limited to, the six PBs) to access foreign currency terms loans at market-related interest rates. As it
turned out, the BSF was jettisoned about a year after the project was launched (see below for details).
Key factors guiding the authorities' selection of the six banks as the PBs for the purpose of capital
restructuring and modernization/institutional development were reportedly as follows. First, these banks
urgently needed recapitalization. Second, it was believed that these banks had prospects for profitability
that would allow them to satisfy, over the project's life span, the capital requirements stipulated by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and hence enable them to implement, within a reasonable period of time, the
institutional reforms required to attract private sector participation. Third, the selected banks were
considered to be on the threshold of technological advancement for absorbing the technology inputs that the
project would provide. Fourth, they had wide geographical representation. (See Partner Comments in
Section 9).
The objective of the project was broadly relevant to the needs of the hour and reflected the GOI's
basic priorities and policy parameters defined in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and other
Bank operations. The problem, however, was that the objective was founded on the rather unrealistic
expectation that the project's three components (namely, Capital Restructuring, Modernization and
Institutional Development, and the Backstop Facility) would be sufficient to bring about fundamental and
sustainable improvements in the overall performance of the PBs, which would result in a systemic
transformation of public sector banking in India.
-2-



3.2 Revised Objective:
Recognizing that the project's objective was too broad and that its design was insufficient for
achieving the objective, the latter was recast during the mid-term review-cum-supervision mission (or
MTR) held from June 11-27, 1998, as summarized in the mission's report dated July 22, 1998.
Specifically, the MTR recommended that the primary objective of the FSDP be narrowed to achieve
"tangible changes" in the six PBs to "strengthen these banks financially and institutionally...so that they
could serve as a model for other public sector banks". These revisions reflected a more realistic view of
what the project could achieve. Nevertheless, the MTR continued to emphasize that a secondary (macro)
objective of the project would be to act as a "catalyst for the transformation of the Indian banking system."
3.3 Original Components:
At its inception, the FSDP was designed to include three components:
*   The Capital Restructuring Loan (CRL) (US$350 million equivalent) to be provided to GOI
was to be on-lent to those PBs that committed to plans to increase their private equity through
public offerings (although no specific targets were set for private equity participation in these
banks) and bring in shareholder representation on their Boards of Directors. The loan was to
be on-lent by GOI to the PBs in the form of subordinated loans to strengthen the capital base
of the PBs. It was envisaged that opening up the PBs' capital base to private equity
participation would improve the governance of these banks by subjecting them to the discipline
of the private shareholders, reorient their business strategy towards higher profitability,
improve customer services and raise allocative efficiency. The underlying presumption was
that once these banks' capital base was restructured and placed on a viable basis, their
management would change pari-passu. resulting in their market reorientation and better
asset-liabilities management skills.
* The Modernization and Institutional Development Loan (MIDL) (US$150 million equivalent)
to be provided to IDBI and guaranteed by GOI was to be on-lent to the PBs to help implement
plans to enhance efficiency and profitability through fostering strategic planning by bank
management, extending automation and computerization of banking operations, human
resource development, organizational improvements, improved asset liability management
(ALM) and treasury management, and credit management. In addition to the equipment
requirements, this component of the loan which would fund specialist services and training to
facilitate the modernization efforts was to complement the first component in as much as it
would enhance the efficiency of the banking operations and the productivity of the staff. Three
conditions of disbursement were defined, namely, that each PB would need to: enter into a
modernization and institutional development subsidiary loan agreement with IDBI satisfactory
to the Bank, prepare a plan for modernization and institutional development satisfactory to the
Bank, and prepare a long-form audit satisfactory to the bank.
* The Back Stop Facility (BSF) (US$200 million single currency loan) to be provided to IDBI
and guaranteed by GOI was envisaged to provide a medium term liquidity assurance at a
market-related price to eligible banks by offering them the option to borrow funds under
specified terms in the event of market disruption, causing distortions in the benchmark interest
rate spreads. Strictly speaking, this component had little to do with reforming the PBs'
operations per se. Its unstated objective appeared to be to expose the participating banks to
newer avenues of business and build capacity to manage different types of risks. Further, this
facility was open to all public sector banks, provided they were able to meet the defined
eligibility criteria which included meeting the risk weighted capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent
for commercial banks required by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), compliance with the RBI
- 3-



norns on commercial banks' exposure limits and credit concentration, and a minimum
domestic rating of AA. There was no clear link between the BSF and the other two project
components and the possibility of a changing demand for the BSF was not properly factored
into project design.
3.4 Revised Components:
Out of the three components, the BSF was dropped in September 1996 owing to a lack of demand
for this facility. Foreign exchange reserves had been built-up and the GOrs policy changes had made it
much easier for banks, importers and corporates to access foreign exchange at market terms. Besides, most
banks had been unwilling to participate in the BSF from the beginning. It may be noted that even at the
initial stages of project preparation, reservations about the desirability of the BSF had been guardedly
expressed by the RBI (the implementing agency) and the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
which, in its capacity as a borrower, was to channel credit to the eligible banks. The exit of the BSF from
the project was not without a cost to India of US$ 10 million in commitment fees. In retrospect, it could be
said that the BSF was not well-thought through and its relevance was suspect right from the beginning.
The structure and content of the CRL remained fundamentally the same as in the original, except
that one bank-Indian Bank-was disqualified from the project in 1998 on the grounds that it had continued
to suffer from serious financial problems since the outset of the project, despite repeated rounds of
government-funded recapitalization. It may be noted that, at the time of project inception, Indian Bank had
a significant portfolio of non-performing advances (NPAs), which were not adequately provisioned for, but
these problems were masked by poor reporting and disclosure. Over the life of the project, as reporting
standards improved, it became ever more apparent that Indian Bank's NPAs were much higher, and its
capital base was much more precarious, than originally estimated. The bank also suffered from mismatches
between assets and liabilities leading to negative spreads. By early 1999, it became clear that the
recapitalization and modernization/institutional development components of the FSDP were not sufficient
to turn-around Indian Bank's performance on a sustained basis, and that more fundamental changes were
required to address the bank's underlying problems, which related to weak govemance and management,
poor credit allocation procedures and practices, lack of proper risk management, etc. Owing to its weak
financial performance, it also became increasingly unlikely that Indian Bank would proceed with a public
offering of shares during the time span of the project. Thus a decision was taken to remove Indian Bank
from the list of PBs under the CRL, and the initially allocated amount under the CRL was subsequently
reduced by US$50 million, effective. April 19, 1999.
Regarding the MIDL, its structure and content were not formally revised. However, frequent
revisions were made to the amount initially allocated for the MIDL. The loan amount was reduced by
US$51.3 million effective April 19, 1999 and by a further US$15 million in March 2001. This was mainly
due to slow progress in loan disbursement which reflected, inter alia, (i) initially, a lack of clarity among
PBs on the objectives and content of the component, (ii) difficulties in satisfying the three conditions of
disbursement (see Section 3.3 for details), (iii) the lengthy learning period that the PBs had to go through in
order to understand the Bank's procurement requirements, and (iv) the unwillingness of one bank - Bank
of India - to fully avail of the loan, on the grounds that the loan was costly and also because Bank of India
management had a preference for "in-house", local technologies.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
While the overall objectives of the FSDP seemed to fit in with India's economic and financial
liberalization program of the early 1990s, the project's design at entry was not commensurate with its
desired objectives. Of the three project components, one component (the BSF) was not directly relevant to
the project's objectives, and the two other components were insufficient to meet the objectives.
Furthermore, while the project was in consonance with the GOI's overall reform stance, more attention
-4 -



could have been paid to aligning project design to the political reality of the time. Specifically, the project's
objectives and design perhaps did not take sufficient account of the G01's degree of preparedness and
political will (or lack thereof) to implement far-reaching financial sector refonms involving the overhaul of
public sector banks, nor did it pay sufficient attention to the political economy constraints to such reforms.
Arguably, therefore, the project's ultimate unsatisfactory outcome was to an extent built into the design of
the project.
This apart, the project did not include any indicators, benchmarks or targets with which to monitor
and assess achievements of its development objectives and implementation progress. It was only in 1996,
following the issuance of Supervision Guidelines in mid-1996 as agreed with the Department of Economic
Affairs (DEA) at the Fifth India CPPR meetings, that attention was focused on monitoring indicators. And
it was not really until after the MTR (1998) that strong efforts began to be made by supervision missions to
collect and analyze bank-by-bank data on specific indicators to assess progress with the various
development objectives under the CRL and MIDL.
The Bank team made a fair assessment of the macroeconomic risks at the start of the project,
although contrary to expectations, interest rates did not come down as much during the life of the project.
The prevailing high real interest rates for most of the project's lifetime did have some adverse consequences
for the profitability of the six PBs, since the benefits accruing from higher lending rates were more than
negated by the costs arising from the high deposit rates that banks were forced to pay out. (More recently,
and subsequent to project closure, a lowering of interest rates has significantly helped bank profitability). In
any case, these were not determining factors in the final outcome of the project.
In view of the above, the Quality at Entry of this project was rated as being unsatisfactorv.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The primary (micro) objective of the project, namely to strengthen the six PBs financially,
institutionally and operationally, as defined during the MTR, was achieved to a limited extent. Over the
project period, four PBs recorded improvements in their capital adequacy ratios (CARs), and five PBs
recorded improvements in their NPA ratios and cost-to-income ratios. Some progress was made in opening
ownership of four PBs to the private sector, and representation of private shareholders on their Boards of
Directors. (See Annex 1. Moreover, the project fostered the adoption of technology as a critical component
of the overall business strategies of the PBs, helped the PBs to reorient their working and policy stance to
meet the demands of market forces and competition, and helped underscore to the GOI, RBI and the PBs
the critical role played by technological modernization in achieving the overall business goals of banks. As
highlighted in the RBrs comments (see Section 9), the project also had some spin-off effects, in that the
World Bank's monitoring standards and practices provided inputs to RBI's efforts to strengthen bank
supervisory and reporting standards, which coincided with the start of the FSDP. However, two of the PBs
(Dena and Indian Bank) suffered declines in their CARs over the project period: At project closure, and
despite recapitalization under the CRL, Dena Bank fell short of attaining the minimum CAR stipulated by
RBI and Indian Bank's capital base had deteriorated to the point of being negative. Furthermore, two PBs
(Allahabad Bank and Indian Bank) did not open up their capital base and the four PBs that did issue capital
to private shareholders were not able to achieve the desired impact on improving corporate governance,
management and performance. None of the PBs were able to establish a commercially driven incentive
structure for bank management and staff, and risk management skills remained conspicuously absent.
It follows that the project also fell short of achieving its broader, secondary (macro) objective of
making the PBs as a model for all banks so as to transform India's banking system. In the event, the
-5-



performance of the PBs was hardly different and in fact less striking from that of the other PSBs (see
Annex 1). Therefore, it was hardly likely that the PBs would be emulated by the other PSBs. A review of
the state of India's banking system at the time of project closure corroborates this finding. Indeed, while
progress has certainly been made since 1995 in key areas such as opening up the systern to foreign banks
and strengthening the regulatory/supervisory framework, India's banking system continues to be dominated
by the govermment (with the public sector banks accounting for 80 percent of banking assets) and remains
endemically inefficient in its financial intermediation function. (See Annex 9 for an overview of the state of
India's banking system).
The above outcomes with respect to the performance of the individual PBs and their overall
systemic impact are not surprising for the reason that the PBs operated within an organizational and policy
framework common to all the PSBs and they could not have been managed differently from their
counterparts in the absence of more far-reaching policy efforts to reform public sector banking. This raises
a counter-factual question whether the PBs' performance in regard to capital restructuring, profitability,
arresting growth of NPAs, etc. would have been any different without the FSDP from what has actually
been the case. It is true that the PBs' achievements in regard to the MIDL component were generally
satisfactory, and also, as noted above, the FSDP generated positive spin-off effects. However, all this
would not compensate for the unsatisfactory performance of the CRL component, judging it in the overall
scheme of things, bearing on the corporate govemance, operational efficiency, asset-liability management
and market orientation of the PBs. Thus, the overall outcome of the project in terms of the achievement of
its objectives was rated as unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Capital Restructuring: This component of the project was by far the most crucial one from the
point of view of the initial objectives of the FSDP. Enough thought was not given initially to define
indicators against which to monitor progress with project implementation. This gap was filled rather
belatedly by the MTR and subsequent supervision missions which, for the first time, fleshed out a set of
monitoring indicators (ratios) and analyzed the PBs' performance against these indicators. The indicators
so devised had a coverage wide enough to gauge the performance of the PBs in major areas, bearing on
their allocative efficiency, capital base and competitiveness. They were:- (i) capital adequacy ratio (CAR),
(ii) gross NPAs as a % of loans portfolio, (iii) net NPAs as a % of net loan portfolio, (iv) net NPAs as %
of total assets, (v) provisions as a % of gross NPAs, (vi) net interest income margin, (vii) cost to income
ratio, (viii) share of non-interest income in total income, (ix) progress in issue of shares to the public and
(x) the extent of shareholders' representation in Board of Directors. These indicators helped subsequent
Bank supervision missions to better assess how the PBs were faring in achieving the objectives of the
project. (Annex 1 summarizes the trends for the six PBs in these key indicators over the period FY 1995-96
to FY 00-01, and provides as reference the comparable indicators for the peer bank group-i.e., the group
of all other public sector banks. At the time of writing the report, audited statements for the end of FY
2001/02 were not available, nor were the RBI published reports on bank per.formance for the corresponding
period. Thus the latest available data are as of the end of FY 2000/01.)
* Capital adequacy. The capital adequacy ratios (CAR) of two banks - Indian Bank and Dena Bank-
actually declined over the life of the project At the time of project closure, Dena bank fell short of
attaining the minimum CAR and for Indian Bank, the capital base deteriorated during the project
period to the point of being negative (a CAR of minus 13.6 percent at end-March 2001). In the
February 2002 Budget, Rs 1300 crores have been allocated for the further recapitalization of Indian
bank. The median CAR for the six PBs declined from 11.5 percent at end-March 2000 to 10.4 percent
by end-March 2001, and remained below the median for their peer group (11.6 percent).
- 6-



*   Non perfonming advances. The PBs made strong efforts to clean up their portfolios of existing NPAs
(via write-offs, debt restructuring, or recovery, using a bad debt one time settlement (OTS) scheme
launched by the RBI in 2000-01). In general, both gross and net NPAs of the PBs as a ratio of loans
improved over the project period, but NPA ratios remained high at the time of project closure (as fresh
NPAs arose partly due to the downturn in the industry and infrastructure sectors to which the PBs have
a large exposure) and one bank- Dena Bank - reported a higher gross NPAs ratio and a lower
provisioning ratio at project closure than at the start of the project. The median gross and net NPA
ratios for the six PBs improved slightly during FY 2000-01, but were well above the corresponding
ratios for their peer group at the end of that fiscal year. The tenuous financial position of the PBs
continued and is likely to come under heavy pressure in the future with increasing competition from the
newly established private banks and the steadily improving performance of other PSBs. It is also to be
noted that in the next few years, there would be an uptick in the NPAs (not only limited to PBs) as the
RBI further strengthens loan classification and provisioning standards.
*   Most of the PBs (except, Syndicate Bank) suffered seriously from profitability problems over the life
of the project, as reflected in lower net interest margins at the end of FY 2000-01 than at the beginning
of the project This apart, the main source of the PBs' income continued to be interest income, which
renders the PBs vulnerable to interest rate risks, particularly in the current environment of downward
movements in the interest rate. In general, the PBs have been lax in their efforts to generate non-interest
revenue.
*   Cost to income ratios also remained very high, with two banks - Bank of India, and Syndicate Bank -
reporting higher cost to income ratios (taking into account the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)
expenses) at the end of FY 2000-01 that at the beginning of the project. Even excluding VRS-related
expenses incurred in FY 2000-01, one bank's (Dena Bank) ratio of cost to income increased during the
duration of the project. The average cost to income ratio for the six PBs was considerably higher than
the peer group average. (For purposes of comparison, the average cost to income ratio of the new
private banks in India was around 40 percent for FY 2000-01, and that of foreign banks operating in
India was just under 50 percent).
*   In contrast to the financial performance of the PBs, the progress made by them in regard to the issue of
shares to the public and private share holder representation in their Boards of Directors was significant,
seen in the context of the political resistance to the private ownership in the PSBs. Four PBs offered on
an average about 25% of their share capital to the private sector; of the remaining two, Indian Bank
was in a financially dire position, waiting for the GOI to inject funds for its re-capitalization (In the
latest GOI budget , FY 2002 - 2003 an amount of Rs. 1300 crores is set aside to begin with for
re-capitalization of the Indian Bank) and the other, Allahabad Bank, was a slow-coach in making
arrangements for public issue as it faced some stiff opposition from the labor union. Of the four PBs,
which were more efficient in opening up their capital, three had each appointed four private share
holders representatives in their Boards of Directors.
*   Partial privatization and the induction of private shareholders to the Boards of the PBs did not
necessarily signal an autonomous functioning of these banks. The GOI's presence in these banks has
been pervasive as in the case of other PSBs. The limitations of the divestiture process were exposed by
a lukewarm response by the capital market as reflected in PBs low price to earnings (P/E) ratios in
comparison to those of the listed private banks.
Judging the financial position of the six PBs on the basis of the above indicators, these banks did
not show significant progress in major and vital areas of their operations as expected at the commencement
-7-



of the project or even in comparison with the rest of the PSBs. Apart from the continuation of the financial
fragility that characterized the operations of the PBs, there was little advance in their management
structures and even less prospect of that happening in future. The corporate governance was weak and
would not improve anytime soon as the recently announced GOI policy on privatization of the state-owned
banks which included retaining their "public sector character" would constrain the freedom of management
of the PBs to conduct their business, based on commercial considerations. Thus the CRL is rated
unsatisfactorv.
4.2.2 Modernization and Institutional Development: Monitoring of PBs' performance under the MIDL
also suffered during the initial supervision missions because of the absence of well-defined monitoring
indicators. The MTR fleshed out a list of eight monitoring indicators, and used these indicators to analyze
progress with the achievement of objectives under the MIDL: (i) percentage and number of fully
computerized branches; (ii) percentage and number of partially computerized branches; (iii) staff
productivity (defined as deposits+advances divided by the number of staff); and (iv) percentage of business
computerized; (v) human resource development plans; (vi) organization improvements; (vii) improvements
in ALM; and (viii) better credit management. (One of these indicators, namely, the ratio of partially
computerized branches, was subsequently dropped during the February 2001 mission on the grounds that
this concept could cover various situations: from one stand-alone personal computer (PC) with only some
office automation function to a group of PCs (not integrated) covering some front office or back office
function). Annex 1 provides details on the performance relative to these four indicators for each PB over
the life of the project and may be summarized as follows:
*   Percentage of fully computerized branches: Four PB's (Bank of India, Dena Bank, India Bank and
Indian Overseas Bank) have achieved remarkable performance with respect to this indicator, with more
than 20% of their branches having been fully computerized. Syndicate Bank has made efforts to extend
branch computerization, but currently, only 12.5% of the bank's branches are fully computerized.
Allahabad Bank, despite strong efforts in 2000-01 (more than 150 branches were equipped) is still
below 10%.
*   Staff productivity: The VRS scheme has had a significant impact on this indicator; the result is
remarkable for Dena Bank that has reached the target of 2 CR (crores) of business per staff and Bank
of India is very near. With the exception of Allahabad Bank, the other PBs are recording satisfactory
results. The follow-up of this indicator by group of branches (rural, sub urban, urban and metro)
should provide PBs with a more accurate means of measuring the progressive impact of
computerization.
*   Business computerized: Bank of India, Dena Bank and Indian Overseas Bank exceeded the threshold
of 70% set by the Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in early
2000-01. With the exception of Allahabad bank the other PBs reached this threshold in end 2000-01.
Even if this indicator is not overly significant as functionalities offered by a system serving the same
banking activity can be very different according to each system, it provides a global view of the
coverage of computerization and IT culture penetration in PBs' branches
* Human resources development plan: All PBs have taken full advantage of the MIDL to equip their
learning centers with a computerized section used for information technology training as well as for
preparing the operator to use the new software installed in branches or administrative offices. A large
amount of staff has been trained in various fields thanks to the contribution of the MIDL. Indian Bank
has made a very huge effort in this field during the past two years.
- 8-



*   Organization: With the exception of Syndicate Bank, all PBs have reduced the number of tiers of their
organization from four to three; they have created specialized branches, fully computerized from the
beginning, and dedicated to customers segments such as corporations or high income customers.
Several Committees have been installed to better manage credit risk, asset-liability management
(ALM), audit, etc. at the highest level. It should be observed that Indian bank is the only PBs who has
managed to reduce its branch network. The mission observed that some constraints remains in the
closure of branches as RBI has to give its no objection prior to the closure. (mainly based on sufficient
banking service available in the location)
*   ALM and Credit management: Syndicate Bank has implemented efficient monitoring methods and
system in these fields. With the exception of Indian Overseas Bank, other PBs have achieved
significant progress : data collection and business coverage to feed the corresponding databases are
improving rapidly. However, production of Management Information Systems (MIS) data collection
and reports are most of the time not established automatically from computer systems installed in
branches.
Judging by the above indicators, the PBs made substantial achievements under the MIDL over the
project period. Despite some variations among the PBs, overall, the MIDL deserves a satisfactorv rating.
This component of the FSDP was well-timed, coinciding as it did with the removal of restrictions imposed
in the past on computerization in PSBs with a view to preventing loss of employment opportunities and
became a vehicle through which PBs could link up technology with their business strategy. Its success was
seen in a rapid modemization of the PBs. The number of computerized branches of six PBs increased
dramatically from 322 in March 1996 i.e. one year after the FSDP's inauguration to about 2180 in
September 2001. Business of the PBs as a result expanded by about 190 percent and the work force shrank
by 17 percent which compared favorably with 15 percent reduction of staff in all the state-owned banks.
This was due to the VRS implemented in March 2001. Perhaps it could be argued that the computerization
signaled to the labor that it would be to their advantage to avail themselves of the VRS with several
attractive features than to wait for an uncertain future. Progress with modemization varied among
individual banks. One interesting feature of this program was that the PBs with weaker financial
performance embraced computerization in the same way as the financially sound ones, dramatized by the
progress achieved by the near insolvent Indian Bank. Perhaps this reflected a belief among PBs that sooner
or later the impact of technological modemization would percolate through their financial operations
thereby enhancing their business prospects and productivity. Apart from the achievements in quantitative
terms, the MIDL succeeded in changing the mind-set of both the management and the work-force of the
PBs which initially resisted computerization of the operations. However, with all this success, it could not
be considered as an unique achievement of the PBs. General technological up-gradation has been pervasive
among all banks, public as well as private largely spurred by the growing presence of the foreign banks and
the proactive policy of the RBI.
4.2.3  Overall Assessment of Output by Component: Of the three components, only one (the MIDL) was
rated satisfactory while the other (the CRL) was rated unsatisfactory and the third component (the BSF)
had to be cancelled. It is not surprising that, overall, the FSDP did not perform as expected. The project
found it difficult to bring about any major changes in the operational and financial performance of the six
PBs without more fundamental changes in ownership, governance, business culture, institutional ethos,
socio-political compulsions and the over-arching operative policy and legal framework. And since the PBs
could not be transformed, the project fell short of achieving its broader objective which was based on the
expectation that the PBs would cause a demonstration effect that would bring about a systemic
transformation of public sector banking in India. In hindsight, the project was perhaps premature in that its
success rested largely on an expectation that the Govemment would be able to implement fundamental
-9-



reforms in public sector banking. Though the GOI, through its bold program of economic liberalization in
1991, had unleashed new forces of productivity, enterprise and growth in the Indian economy in the early
1990s, its ability to implement far-reaching reforms in the banking system was severely constrained
because of the dead-weight of history. The public ownership of banks was (and remains) an emotive issue,
and politically the GOI will be able to exit from public sector banks only gradually, after seeking a political
consensus that certainly did not prevail at the time when the FSDP was launched.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Despite the unsatisfactory development outcome of the FSDP, the project has had a modest
institutional development impact. This assessment is largely based on a wide-ranging and significant
improvement in the institutional arrangements under which the PBs' management and their staff will
constantly remain alert to new challenges thrown up by the evolving business environment. The FSDP
developed a set of monitoring standards to assess the fmancial performance of the PBs. In order to comply
with them, the mnanagement and the staff were required to invest in new skills, and business practices,
which have been in a nature of permanent assets. This has paved the way for the PBs to hone up their
analytical techniques of asset-classification and to learn modern accounting standards, by drawing on
international experience and best practices. These efforts have not been a one shot affair and would remain
ongoing in view of the continuing advance of economic reforms in India, increased competition from
foreign and newly emerging private banks, and a gradual elimination of redundancies in the work force as a
result of VRS. Besides, the practices and the skills that ensued from the implementation of the FSDP will
have to be continually updated because of the heightened awareness among the staff and management of the
importance of banking supervision as exercised by the RBI and the need for them to respond with
acceptable action plans to comply with the RBI's increasingly stringent requirements.
The project had a salutary impact on IDBL through which the MIDL was routed and on RBI
which, as a result of the project, could view banldng operations and supervision problems from broader
national and international perspectives. The interactions of these institutions with the Bank, in setting up
the monitoring indicators and in improving the internal dynamics of PB management in a competitive and
global environment, were instrumental in refashioning the outlook and the attitude of their staff. As far as
the GOI was concerned, its close involvement with the project may have helped develop greater awareness
of the factors forestalling the progress of the Indian banking system and identify the sequential steps needed
for further reform.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implemtenting agency:
Two exogenous factors hindered project implementation. First, the fact that the last two years of
the project period coincided with a decline in economic activity, including in the sectors in which the
lending of some, if not all PBs was highly concentrated. As a result new NPAs arose though the old stock
of NPAs in the balance sheets of some PBs was reduced. This was obviously beyond the control of the 0O0
and the implementing agency. A second factor relates to the absence of any political consensus on public
sector bank reforms, which constrained the project's ability to improve the performance of the PBs. Indeed
the proposed amendment to the Bank Nationalization Act required to reduce the GOrs minimum
- 10 -



shareholding in the PSBs to 33 percent from its current level of 51 percent, which would enable banks to
become more autonomous and commercially-driven, has not yet been enacted. Arguably, these political
economy problems that were beyond the control of the Government or implementing agency should have
been taken into account while defining the project's objectives.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of implementation problems arose because the GOI was slow in providing impetus to
changing the management structure and accountability of the PSB's, within the confines of what was
politically feasible. While it is true (as noted above) that radical reforms in public sector banking would
require legislative changes, opportunities do exist for improving bank performance in the absence of
full-scale privatization. But the GOI did not focus on these opportunities and delayed formulating a road
map for public sector bank restructuring. And when the policy was finally announced in the 2000-01
Budget, it gave out mixed signals and lacked clarity. For example, the policy emphasized the need to
"maintain the public sector character of banks." This meant that the PSBs' management would not, in the
foreseeable future, have a free hand in running the banks as commercial enterprises. More importantly,
even changes in representation of the private shareholders on the Board of Directors of PBs could be
considered cosmetic since the PBs, for al practical purposes, remained subject to "window guidance" from
both the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the RBI in the conduct of their businesses (and this will not
change unless the Bank Nationalization Act is abolished).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PBs generally did not face any impediments from the implementing agency which was the
RBI. Banking supervision is one of the major functions of the RBI and the implementation of the FSDP
was a part of that function. In order to be well focused on the FSDP, and to adhere to the procedural
requirements of the project as agreed to with the Bank, the RBI set up a project monitoring unit (PMU)
within its supervision department to facilitate smooth and timely implementation of the program. Since the
skills and expertise required by the FSDP were similar in scope and nature to bank supervision at large, the
implementation of the program and the disbursal of the loan amounts did not encounter any problems
except the occasional minor procedural hiccups. While the monitoring function was well discharged by the
RBI, it interpreted its role in project management in a narrow sense. It has been more reactive than
pro-active, particularly in regard to the implementation of the CRL. This was evident in the noncompliance
with one of the requirements of the project i.e. Midtermn appraisal of the performance of each of the PBs.
This was partly counterbalanced by the RBIs greater involvement in the MIDL component. The RBI was
cognizant of the complexities of technological upgradation, which it handled promptly and in a timely
fashion. This was probably due to the fact that the RBI had been playing a prominent role in guiding the
banking system as a whole in its quest for catching up with the use of modem information technology.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original total cost of the project was estimated of US$ 1,534 million with the GOrs share at
618.4 million equivalent (40.3 percent), the participating banks' share at US$ 215.7 million (14.1 percent)
and Bank's share at US$ 700 million (45.6 percent). Subsequently the total cost was scaled down to US$
1,442.96 million with the GOI's share totaling US$ 1051.78 million (72.8 percent), the participating
banks' share at US$ 7.48 million (0.6 percent) and the Bank's share of cost whittled down to US$ 383.7
million (26.6 percent). (See Annex 2 for details on costs, financing and procurement arrangements).
Overall, the total project cost was lowered for the reasons explained in section 4.2 above, related to the
cancellation of the BSF and paring down/restructuring of the MIDL, although costs related to the CRL
component in fact increased (by US$ 194.58 million) owing to additional recapitalization needs of the PBs.
The significant increase in the GOrs share of project costs was mainly because it financed these additional
- 1 1.



costs associated with bank recapitalization. The Bank loan was revised downward in several steps: The
first cut came when the BSF component of US$ 200 million was cancelled. There were two revisions in the
MIDL amount, which was reduced by US$51.3 million effective April 19, 1999 and by a further US$ 15
million in March 2001. This was mainly due to slow progress in loan disbursement (see section 3.4 above)
coupled with the decision of one bank-the Bank of India-to opt out of the MIDL on the grounds that the
loan was too expensive and also that it would prefer to use in-house capacity to modernize its technological
system. Thus, the MIDL amount was reduced from US$ 150 million to US$ 83.7. Following the decision
to remove Indian bank from the list of PBs under the CRL on account of its failure to meet with financial
targets, the initially allocated amount under the CRL was reduced by US$ 50 million, effective April 19,
1999. Thus, the CRL was reduced from US$350 million to US$ 300 million. The FSDP, which became
effective on 03/23/1995, closed as scheduled on October 31, 2001. The Bank loan was fully disbursed at
the closure of the project
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements of the project with respect to improvement in the financial
position of the PBs' and their modernization process was rated likely. The issue of sustainabiity can be
approached from three angles - the irreversibility of the changes undertaken, the momentum of the
improvements made and the ownership of the program by the borrower. The PBs are by now well advanced
in their understanding of what is required to ensure financial soundness. The management and staff are
trained in modem techniques in conducting banking business and they would continue to build upon the
knowledge and skills acquired. This, together with their heightened realization that they have to operate in a
more competitive environment, and a close and continuous supervision of their operations by the RBI, with
its constantly improving supervision apparatus, should ensure that the PBs maintain what they have learnt.
During the last- few years, most of the PSBs have greatly enhanced their business acumen in part due to the
growing competition from the newly established private banks and the foreign banks. Recently, the GOI has
relaxed restrictions on foreign banks' ownership of domestic Indian banks. This should induce the banks to
revitalize themselves to meet new challenges. Besides, the exposure of the PBs to market-scrutiny as a
result of their issuing equity to the public should encourage them to raise their profitability so as to make
their shares attractive. The GOls' ownership of the program, though somewhat faltering at the start of the
project, firmed up as project implementation proceeded. It could discem the beneficial aspects of the
project and its long-term implications for the financial system. However, its stance on the PSBs managerial
autonomy and accountability remained opaque. Of late, however, there are a number of indicators which
suggest that the GOI recognizes the need to reorient the banking system along modem lines and has been
considering several alternatives to achieve this. The RBI, too, is in the same reform mode, suggesting that
the achievements of the project such as they are would be maintained in the future.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
The PMU was created as a part of the RBrs Department of Banking Operations and Development
(DBOD), and was folded into that department at project closure with ease. The DBOD itself is now
relatively well-placed to supervise the PBs, and all other commercial banks for which it is responsible,
although efforts are under way to further strengthen the supervisory framework through such means as
upgrading the loan classification and provisioning rles to intemational standards, introducing an effective
early warning system to help identify troubled banks, putting in place a prompt corrective action
framework to deal more effectively with troubled banks, strengthening consolidated supervision, and so
forth. In the future, it is envisaged that the DBOD will continue to step up its supervision of the PBs and
other banks, based on enhanced supervisory standards, tools and techniques. The Bank will continue to
- 12 -



monitor the performance of India's public sector banks, including the six PBs, through its ongoing banking
sector policy dialogue. In doing so, the Bank will use the RBIs prudential norms and other performance
indicators and standards, including those defined under the FSDP.
In the near term, follow-up activities by the Bank in the area of banking reform in India will likely
take the form of non-lending support, through instruments such as the preparation of policy notes and
reports, the organization of workshops/conferences, and non-lending technical assistance on relevant
topics. Should the GOI's commitment to implementing more fundamental reforms in the public sector banks
be stepped up (one possible trigger could be the passage of the proposed amendment to the Bank
Nationalization Act), the Bank would stand ready to provide a follow-up lending operation in support of the
financial and operational restructuring of public sector banks. (For details, see India: Financial Sector
Development Strategy, draft, May 2002).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The overall developmental objective of the project was broadly consistent with the government's
development strategy/priorities and with the Bank's CAS, and the Bank's performance in project
identification was rated as satisfactorv. However, the Bank's performance in project preparation and
appraisal was rated unsatisfactor' on a number of grounds:
* The project's design was not fully geared to achieving its objective. While the MIDL was
well-designed, the other two project components were ill-conceived: The project incorporated a
BSF, which had to be dropped soon after the start for reasons noted in the previous sections.
And the CRL was ill-designed at the start, although its design was later improved to foster
private sector participation in banks. The recapitalization of the six PBs under the CRL
amounted in effect to financing of the GOI budget, not to speak of the inclusion of Indian
Bank, which had a bad history of management and an over-load of NPAs that became apparent
later on. Moreover, the CRL appeared to be based on the misplaced assumption that a one-time
recapitalization of the weak PBs coupled with a limited opening up of their capital base and
cosmetic changes in corporate govemance (e.g., through shareholder representation on the
Boards) would transform the financial performance of the PBs.
*   The project did not sufficiently reflect the political economy constraints of implementing
fundamental reforms in public sector banking.
* It did not pay particular attention to the various risks and their mitigation.
* The project did not initially include a set of comprehensive performance indicators with which
to measure implementation progress.
7.2 Stupervision:
Bank senior management clearly attached high priority to project supervision, which began with a
high level "project launch" workshop in Mumbai from May 29-30, 1995. The workshop hosted by RBI
comprised staff from MOF, IDBI, the participating banks and RBI, ten Bank staff and a consultant. The
workshop discussed the CRL and MIDL components, and issues related to procurement, disbursement,
accounts and audits, establishment of a project unit, reporting requirements and loan conditionalities.
Thereafter, the Bank fielded a total of 13 supervision between September 1995 and project closure in
October 2001. (Detailed information on these missions, including task leaders and mission composition, is
provided in Annex 4!.
The performance of the early supervision missions was mixed. The effectiveness of these early
- 13 -



missions was undennined by a number of factors: First, the absence of a clear and comprehensive set of
project monitoring indicators meant that the early missions (particularly in 1995, 1996) were not
well-equipped to judge the performance of PBs and address problems in a timely manner. Second, the early
supervision missions were unable to coordinate their work effectively with the appraisal team. And third
the scope of work carried out by the early missions was not well-balanced to cover all of the project
components. For example, it was not until the third supervision rnission (June 10-18, 1996) that staff took
a comprehensive look at all three (CRL, MIDL and BSF) components of the project. That having been
said, it must be noted that Bank staff did act quickly when problems were identified. For example, when
the staff reviewed the BSF in the June 1996 mission, and found that there was no demand for this facility
among the participating banks, the BSF was cancelled almost immediately (in June 1996). Likewise, after
the CRL was reviewed for the first time in June 1996, the problems of Indian bank came to the fore, and so
the subsequent supervision missions did try to focus more on that component.
From 1998 onwards, the supervision missions were much better focused and balanced. These
missions, under management guidance, took timely and decisive actions to restructure and cancel parts of
the loans. For example, when it became increasingly apparent that a recapitalization would not be
sufficient to address Indian Bank's deep underlying problems and turn around its performance, and that the
bank would definitely not be able to proceed with a public offering of shares during the time span of the
project, the supervision team recommended that Indian Bank be disqualified from the CRL. Thus, Indian
Bank was removed from the list of PBs under the CRL and the initially allocated amount under the CRL
was reduced by US$50 million, effective April 19, 1999. The MIDL was also restructured and the loan
amount revised downward post 1998, in response to slow progress in loan disbursement which reflected,
inter alia, (i) initially, a lack of clarity among PBs on the objectives and content of the component, (ii)
difficulties in satisfying the three conditions of disbursement (see Section 3.3 for details), (iii) the lengthy
learning period that the PBs had to go through in order to understand the Bank's procurement requirements,
and (iv) the unwillingness on the part of the new management of one bank - Bank of India - to fully avail
of the loan, on the grounds that management had a preference for "in-house", local technologies. The MIDL
amount was thus reduced by US$51.3 million effective April 19, 1999 and by a further US$15 million in
March 2001.
The later supervision missions also identified performance indicators with which to monitor
achievements in project development objectives. Bank-by-bank data was gathered in order to analyze
progress made by each PB in achieving the project development objectives under both the CRL and MIDL,
and to compare the performance of the PBs with other public sector banks. This fed into the preparation of
comprehensive and well-argued project supervision reports (PSRs) that contributed to institutional
memory on the project. The PSRs during the period 1998 to project closure (2001) voiced a number of
concerns with project perfonmance. Successive missions during 1998, 1999 and up until the February 2001
mission were jusfified in rating implementation progress and performance with respect to meeting
development objectives as satisfactory, because the performance of the PBs (as measured by indicators
such as CAR, NPA ratios, cost-to-income ratios, productivity, percentage of business computerized, etc.)
did improve over that period, and main outlier in terns of financial performance (Indian Bank) was
excluded in 1999 from further support under the CRL. However, the February 2001 mission did highlight
serious concerns over the fact that one PB was insolvent and another was seriously under capitalized, two
PBs had still not opened up their capital base, and one of the four PBs that had opened up their capital base
had still not appointed private sector representatives on its Board. The mission's PSR and aide memoire
clearly stated that unless these issues were addressed, the rating on achievement of project development
objectives would have to be downgaded. The final supervision mission in October 2001 found that the
issues flagged by the February mission had not been addressed. Furthermore, the October mission also had
the benefit of reviewing the PBs' financial data for the year ending March 2001, which was released in
October 2001. The data showed a marked deterioration in the financial and operational performance of the
- 14 -



PBs in FY 2000-01, in contrast to previous trends between 1997-98 and 1999-00. The final supervision
mission thus rated performance as unsatisfactory.
Against this background, the Bank's performance in supervision was rated satisfactorv.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
On balance, and taking into account the Bank's performance in the lending (identification,
preparation and appraisal) and project supervision, overall Bank performance was rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation involved intensive discussions about the nature of the project, its rationale and
usefulness among the officials of the MOF and the IDBI as borrowers. The GOI, in particular, appeared to
consider this project as being highly relevant to India's economic reform process. At the time of project
approval, the Indian economy was well poised for revival and growth, with a rapidly improving balance of
payments position. The Bank's first adjustment loan SAL/SAC had been successful in breaking the barriers
to growth, development of the private sector, and more importantly, in changing the mind set of policy
makers. This elicited a growing support for India from the donors and the multilateral lending institutions.
The GOI's thinking was that if the momentum of the reforms was to be sustained and accelerated, the
financial sector needed to be structurally transformed in view of its vital links with the overall economy.
Given the sensitivities surrounding banking reforms, the GOI opted for structuring the FSDP as an
investment operation on the grounds that it would be more politically palatable than an adjustment
operation. The project's focus on the six PBs and PB-specific conditionality made the project less
conspicuous and more acceptable. A key problem with the Borrower's (GOI's) inputs at project preparation
was that the GOI did not take sufficient account of the fact that (a) the bank-specific conditionality would
not in itself transform the performance of the PBs in the absence of a consensus on the need for more
far-reaching policy reforms aimed at the eventual privatization of the public sector banks, and interim
steps to improve managerial autonomy and accountability, and (b) that bank-specific conditionality directed
at six banks that accounted for under 20 percent of the total assets and deposits of PSBs would certainly be
unable to bring about a systemic transformation of India's public sector banks. A second problem related
to the fact that the GOI did not push hard for abandoning the BSF component , despite reservations
expressed by IDBI and RBI prior to Board presentation. And the inclusion of this component reflected
insufficient consultations with the beneficiaries (the public sector banks), most of which later expressed a
reluctance to avail of this facility. Third, the list of PBs selected for the CRL and MIDL included Indian
Bank, which had deeper problems that needed more far-reaching reforms than those covered under the
FSDP design. In light of these factors, the borrower's performance during preparation was rated
unsatisfactory.
7.S Government implementation performance:
Though the RBI was designated as the main implementing agency, implementation work was
divided between the MOF and the RBI, in view of the fact that the GOI was the owner of PB's and all
govemance issues fell in its domain. In a purely technical sense, the implementation of the project remained
on track, although the MOF's contribution to implementation was somewhat undermined by the transfer of
officials who had negotiated the project; the latter may also have weakened commitment associated with
ownership. Moreover, successive Bank supervision missions observed a certain degree of complacency on
the MOF's part with regard to the performance of the PBs and a reluctance to recognize the deep problems
in some of the PBs, although admittedly, addressing these problems often required policy changes (e.g.,
amendments to the Bank Nationalization Act) that were beyond the scope of the project or indeed, beyond
-15-



the scope of our counterparts and required legislative action. It should also be mentioned that IDBI
displayed a high degree of flexibility in its approach to the treatment of the risk involved in the sub-loans
given by the PBs. Initially, IDBI insisted on the guarantees from the GOI for the repayment of the
sub-loans, which delayed disbursement. Later, however, the IDBI relented to smooth the implementation
process by deciding to settle the issue through informal dialogue with the GOI. Overall, the Govemment's
implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The RBI (implementing agency) generally facilitated the implementation of the project by setting
up the necessary infrastructure like the project monitoring unit (PMU) for the project, by choosing the right
kind of personnel, and molding their approach to the tasks involved in overseeing the project. The usual
monitoring procedures were also observed to facilitate smooth implementation. While RBI could have
played a more pro-active role by infoming the Bank of the problems faced by the project, in general, RBI
staff were clearly skilled in carrying out the implementation task. RBI also kept close touch with the MOF,
in course of the project period, to avoid any cause for delay as it did with the IDBI to resolve the problems
raised by the risks of sub loans purveyed by the PBs. Therefore, implementing agency performance was
rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the ratings given above to Borrower's performance during preparation
(unsatisfactory), the Govemment's implementation performance (unsatisfactory), and the Implementing
Agency's performance (satisfactory), the overall borrower performance was rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following key lessons from the Bank's experience with the FSDP are worth highlighting:
*   An overarching lesson leamed is that it is very difficult to bring about improvements in bank
performance on a sustainable basis without genuine efforts to strengthen corporate govemance, and
enhance managerial autonomy and accountability so as to instill a commercial culture in banks. In the
case of the PBs under the FSDP, the absence of such efforts to strengthen corporate govemance and
managerial autonomy/accountability meant that all other changes introduced under the auspices of the
CRL and MIDL were unable to address banks' underlying weaknesses or bring about sustainable
improvements in performance.
* Clarity of objectives is an essential prerequisite of project design. When the FSDP was conceptualized
and designed at the initial stages, the Bank did not have a precise idea about the goals to be achieved
through the project. The program therefore lost focus, and very little was achieved in terms of either the
reform of the financial system or the improvement of banking practices in the selected banks to the
extent desired. If the wider objective of using the project as a vehicle for transforming the Indian
financial system was over-riding, then, the configuration of policies aimed at sequencing financial
sector refomis should have been spelled out and the project designed accordingly.
*   The objectives and design of Bank projects should strive to reflect political economy constraints and
challenges. The FSDP was launched at a time when there was no political consensus on policies
relating to bank privatization. In the initial flush of reforms, many of the easier steps, such as income
recognition, loan classification and provisioning, upgradation of the RBI supervision machinery,
deregulation of interest rates and softening of directive credit programs were taken. This reflected a
change from the old way of conducting banking business. But the adoption of further measures of a
more difficult nature was hampered in the absence of a clear direction in the GOI's thinking on the
- 16 -



link-up between managemeit efficiency and risk management and ownership. A change in the mind-set
of the Government and PSBs' management is a gradual process. Perhaps for these reasons the GOI
remained noncommittal about these issues until the late 1990's. This in a way indicated that the
objectives and design of the FSDP was not fully in tune with the government and RBrs thinking at the
time.
*   As far as possible, different components of a project should be inter-connected with a common
objective. In the case of the FSDP, one component of the project-the CRL - depended for its
implementation. on factors different from those bearing on the other component- MIDL - the outcome
of which was more satisfactory than that of the former. In such situations, the Bank should keep such
components apart and what is implementable and purely technical in nature should be negotiated as a
'stand-alone' Technical Assistance (TA) type of project.
*   In projects that involve supporting selected entities, enterprises, banks, etc., those entities should be
carefully selected on the basis of clear and transparent criteria.  One of the major difficulties
encountered by the Bank in implementing the FSDP was the choice of the PBs. The presumption on
which their choice was based was that their profit prospects would allow them to satisfy capital
requirements in a defined time span. However this presumption was belied by the weak financial
position of at one bank to begin with. No clear criteria were laid down and the selection was made on
an ad hoc basis.
*   Projects should specify monitoring standards and quantifiable benchmarks against which the
achievement of the various project development objectives may be assessed. This helps the supervision
process and enables prompt correction of emerging problems during the life of a project The outcome
of the FSDP clearly suffered from the fact that such monitoring standards and benchmarks were not
specified at the start of the project, and were included only at the mid-term review.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower comments (Dated May 29, 2002):
[l
MOF Comments (scanned and attached as last page of document)
Implementing agency comments (Dated April 15, 2002):
Background. India's financial system underwent significant changes with several liberalization
measures carried out since July 1991. The policy measures were directed towards interest rate deregulation,
development of market instruments for pricing of public debt and bank loans, greater freedom to banks in
credit allocation and pricing and market orientation in economic decision making. Simultaneously, changes
were brought in to upgrade the regulatory, supervisory and disclosure standards to international norms and
in general for creating an open and liberalized economic environment A key element of the hberalization
process was to strengthen and give market orientation to the functioning of public sector banks, which
comprised more than 80% of the banking sector in India. The Financial Sector Development Project
(FSDP) of the World Bank (WB) was proposed in the year 1994 to support the initial phase of the
liberalization process. The project was launched in the year 1995 with the following objective: 'The project
aims to foster greater market orientation, allocative efficiency, technical competence and competition in
India's financial system and contribute to meeting the long-term financial needs of its investor as a means
of stimulating economic growth It would assist GOI to sustain financial liberalization, institutional
development of public sector commercial banks and integration into global capital markets. It would
facilitate expansion of private equity ownership in public sector banks and development of term foreign
- 17 -



currency lending. Six public sector banks, namely, (i) Allahabad Bank, (ii) Bank of India, (iii) Dena Bank,
(iv) Indian Bank, (v) Indian Overseas Bank and (vi) Syndicate Bank participated in the project FSDP had
three components:
1) The Capital Restructuring Loan (CRL): The objective was to facilitate private equity ownership
in public sector commercial banks by making their share more attractive to potential investors in capital
market. Private equity, it was hoped, would (i) improve governance, as banks would be subject to discipline
of private shareholder base. (ii) reorient business goals towards profitability, efficiency and customer
service and (iii) offer banks opportunity to strengthen capital base independent of GOI's budgetary support.
Of the allocated USD 350 million, Governnent of India availed of USD 300 million for recapitalization of
five participating banks (PBs) (Indian Bank was excluded from this component). USD 50 million was
cancelled.
2) Modernization an Institutional Development Loan (MIDL). The objective of MIDL was to
improve efficiency of banks' functioning through computerization, automation, business re-engineering and
to provide better MIS to address risk management and ALM functions of banks. Although the original
allocation under this component was USD 150 million, it underwent several revisions, mid-course,
commensurate with project needs and the actual disbursement to the PBs was USD 83.70 million.
3) Back-stop facility: The facility aimed at assisting eligible financial institutions and banks to
meet the demand for US Dollar term-loan from small and medium sized companies and exporters whose
direct access to off-shore funds was hampered by high issue cost. It was the intention to provide a
medium-term liquidity assurance in US Dollar at market related interest rates to eligible banks and
financial institutions. This facility of USD 200 million was not availed of as there was no demand for such
funds and was dropped in September 1996.
The project came to a close in October 2001 with final disbursement of USD 300 million under
CRL and USD 83.70 million under MIDL. The World Bank mission reviewed the performance of the
project periodically and following the last review done in October 2001 have assessed MIDL component of
the project as 'satisfactory' and CRL component as 'unsatisfactory'. The WB are now preparing the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and have sought the views of RBI and GOI on the project. WB
have particularly requested us to address the following issues, while evaluating the project.
Factors that guided the choice of banks to be included in the FSDP. The banks were selected
because of their need for recapitalization, which required extemal assistance in the short term. These banks
also had the prospects of profitability that would allow them to satisfy capital requirement over the span of
the project and, hence, would be in a position to implement, within a reasonable time period, institutional
reforms sufficient to attract private sector investors. These banks were also on the threshold of
technological advancement for absorbing technology input that the project was to provide. These banks
have wide geographical representation.
Rationale for including Backstop Fpcility (BF) in the project. Due to hlberalization of India's
foreign trade and payment system and fai*) 'strong revival of economy over preceding years a rapidly
expanding demand for foreign currency term loans was anticipated. However, the ability of Indian financial
institutions to establish themselves in offshore maricets and raise funds in a cost efficient manner was
hampered by high issue costs on account of regulatory restrictions designed to control capital flows and the
market perception of systemic risk. In this backdrop, the Backstop Facility was envisaged to assist eligible
Indian banks and financial institutions in India (EBs) to source private funds at a market related price. The
facility was designed to provide a medium term liquidity assurance at a market related price to EBs by
- 18-



offering them the option to borrow funds from the BF when the premium to be paid by the EBs in directly
accessing overseas markets exceeded certain level. The difference would represent market perception of
systemic disruption. The overall objective was to assist in development of a foreign currency term-lending
market.
Linkage between BF and other two components - CRL&MIDL. CRL and MIDL were designed for
improvement in financial strength, efficiency and functioning of participating banks where as BF was
designed to assist in the development of a foreign currency term lending market. These two sets of
objectives could be pursued independent of each other without having any direct linkage even though both
the objectives were relevant as components of financial sector development.
What could have been done during the mid-term review to improve project dbjectives and
design?
CRL: CRL was designed to strengthen the Participating Banks (PBs) which were running into
losses, financially and institutionally to enable them to meet the Capital Adequacy Ratio so that they could
issue shares to public. With the Government contributing Tier II Capital (Rs. 924.58 crore) to these PBs,
they could achieve the Capital Adequacy Ratio. Four PBs could access the market successfully. Three of
these banks also inducted private shareholders on their Boards. One bank could not time its issue and failed
to access the market because of adverse market conditions. The bank will make public offer once the
conditions turn favorable. The major objective was thus met in respect of four out of five (excluding Indian
Bank) banks. The follow up effects of private capital, namely, improvement in profitability, efficiency,
governance etc. which were assumed at the beginning of the project are in fact, independent objectives,
which need not necessarily follow from private capital. However, there had been an appreciation of these
factors at all level and PBs did put in conscious efforts to improve these parameters. PBs have largely been
successful, though not to the optimal level. Constant mid-term monitoring by WB had beneficial impact.
RBI, therefore, feels that the CRL did serve its original purpose though not to the optimum level.
MIDL:
a)     The PBs took time in understanding the procedure for floating global tenders as prescribed by WB
and consequentially tailoring their procurement programs in time.' If training was given to the
officials of the PBs in understanding WB's requirements in the beginning, probably the off-take
would have been faster and possibly PBs would have utilized full amount of the loan.
b)     Because of delayed start on account of the above, the PBs had to request for downsizing the loan
as also extension of the disbursement period.The loan disbursement period which was extended in
the last year of disbursement could have been extended mid-way keeping in view difficulties
experienced by PBs.
c)     Repayment Schedules could have been made effective from the last disbursement of the loan and
country terms could have been extended to these loans also.
Did recapitalization and opening of share holding of banks to the public constitute sufficient as
well necessary conditions for the competitiveness of banks and their allocative efficiency? Government's
contribution to the Tier II Capital of the PBs enabled them to meet the stringent CAR prescribed by RBI
and with the improved performance the PBs could show profits during the tenure of the loan. This enabled
the PBs to go public. Issue of capital by the PBs to public was in the range of 23.5 % to 29.1%. The
private shareholders could not have any significant role to play in the overall policy formulation of these
banks.
- 19 -



However, the fact that these banks would have to approach the capital market for their future
capital needs, forced them to enhance profitability and return on equity. Thus, banks have focussed on
enhancing productivity and efficiency through large-scale computerization, staff reduction and
reorganization. Efforts have been made in NPA reduction and containment, exploring new avenues of
non-interest income, improving spread etc. Thus, re-capitalization and opening of shares to public, though
not sufficient conditions, have worked as catalysts in improving competitiveness and allocative efficiency.
This process, which has been set in motion, will certainly show better results in the long run.
What role did the MOF play in influencing the operations of the PBs being the owner of these
banks and in what way did your approach to them differ from that to other public sector banks? Under
the CRL, the Government contributed Rs.924.58 crores towards Tier II capital of the PBs which enabled
them to strengthen their capital base and meet the capital adequacy norms prescribed by RBI. GOI also
made similar contribution to the capital of other public sector banks as per their needs. Government, as
owners, signed MOUs with public sector banks setting performance standards before contributing to the
capital and monitored their performance. All public sector banks were assisted as per their needs by the
GOI.
Assessment of the project coordination between MOF, RBI, IDBI and the PBs. The coordination
between the above agencies was satisfactory and the project did not suffer on this count. The PBs were
given guidance whenever required by RBI.
Assessment of the World Bank performance and supervision. The World Bank closely monitored
the project through its half-yearly reviews. The procedures for approval of expenditure and disbursement
were stringent. Even though some PBs did view the procedures as laborious and time consuning, they
helped ensuring proper utilization. RBI found the performance analysis of banks carried out by different
missions very objective and incisive and they helped in the learning process.
Did the FSDP make any impact on the overall banking system? Yes, the project has helped the
PBs in reorienting their working and policy stance to meet the demands of market forces and competition.
Technology has been adopted as an critical component in the overall business goals of the banks.
Moreover, the effect of the loan need not be judged purely on the basis of the performance of the PBs.
There were a number of associated benefits as spin off effect. WB's monitoring standards and practices
gave excellent input to RBI's efforts in strengthening its own supervisory and reporting standards, which
coincided with the start of FSDP. RBI received technical assistance under ODA (now DFID) in setting up
its off-site monitoring system and strengthening supervisory system. The issues like cost of funds, return on
assets, non-interest income and profitability in general became more focussed for the banks. Reduction of
NPA and prevention of fresh NPA received strong impetus both from banks and the regulators. WB has
already rated MIDL as 'satisfactory'. MIDL gave a boost and direction to the computerization efforts of
PBs. Particularly, WB mission had made a critical observations that IT strategy of banks should be
integrated with their business strategy in order to give a business orientation to the computerization. RBI is
in the process of developing this theme into a policy framework for guiding next phase of banks'
computerization's. Performance of the Participating Banks at the beginning of the Project and the standards
achieved by them during the currency of the Project and the results obtaining at the end show that the
Project has been satisfactory.
- 20 -



Could some other World Bank lending instrument have been better to achieve what the GOI had
in mind at the time the loan was negotiated? There was no deficiency in the instrumentality adopted for
the project. Although quantitative outcome of the project in respect of certain parameters and PBs are not
up to the desired level, the project has certainly set in motion the process, which would lead to long-term
benefits for the financial sector as a whole.
RBI's perceptions: Based on the performance of the Participating Banks and the results shown by the PBs,
the World Bank has rated MIDL as satisfactory and RBI agrees with the WB. The World Bank has rated
CRL as unsatisfactory based on various parameters. However, RBI's perception of the outcome of the
project, which to some extent differs from WB's has already been discussed in the earlier paragraphs. To
sunmarize,
0      Of the six PBs, Indian Bank was taken out of the CRL component because of its high NPA
position. Of the remaining five PBs, four PBs issued shares to public as was allowed under the Act. One
bank could not go public because of unfavorable market conditions and is waiting for the market to
improve to time its issue.
0      Three of the four banks have already inducted private shareholder directors on their Board and one
bank is proposing to do so very shortly.
0      The fact that PBs will have to approach capital market for their future capital needs have forced
them revamp their working in tune with the demands of the market as discussed against item 5 above.
0      Further dilution of the Government control is contemplated and legislation is being passed for
diluting the Government holding to 33% of the Capital.
0      The financial results of these PBs also reveal that the PBs have made progress in all parameters.
The PBs that were loss making in the beginning of the project are now earning profits except one bank.
The capital adequacy ratio of all the PBs increased from 8.4% in 1995-96 to 10.4% in 2000-01 with Bank
of India and Syndicate Bank showing an increase from 8.4% to 12% during the period. Indian Bank' net
NPA as percentage of loan portfolio decreased from 23.1% to 10.1% during the period under review.
Indian Bank has made substantial recovery of NPA. Dena Bank has, however, slipped in its performance.
0      As discussed against items - 5 and 9, there were many spin off effects of the project, which will
benefit the fnancial sector as a whole, in the long run.
Keeping above factors in view, RBI is of the opinion that the CRL component may also be considered as
satisfactory.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1. CRL: Project monitoring Indicators for financial performance
FY      Bank of   Dona    Syndicate  Indian    IOB    Allahabad  Median
India    Bank      Bank     Bank               Bank      PBs
Capital adequacy ratio          1995-96       8.4%     8.3%     8.4%     -12.7%   6.0%      9.7%      8.4%       5
1996-97      10.3%    10.8%     8.8%     -18.9%   10.1%    10.6%     10.2%
1997-98      9.1%     11.9%     10.5%     1.4%    9.3%     11.6%      9.9%
1998-99      10.5%    11.1%     9.6%     -8.9%    10.1%     10.4%    10.3%
1999-00      11.8%    11.6%     11.4%   -11.6%    9.1%      11.5%    11.5%
2000-01      12.2%     7.7%     11.7%   -13.6%    10.2%     10.5%     10.4%
NPAs (gross) as a %             1995-96      14.5%    14.5%     21.0%    34.1%    22.6%     24.0%     21.8%
of gross advances               1996-97      11.8%    15.1%     19.3%    30.4%    18.1%     23.9%     18.7%
1997-98      11.6%    14.2%     15.3%    30.0%    13.4%     23.2%    14.7%
1998-99      11.9%    12.4%     10.7%    29.2%    13.3%     20.1%    12.8%
1999-00      13.1%    18.1%     7.7%     25.4%    13.2%     19.1%     15.7%
2000-01      10.2%    25.3%     7.9%     21.8%    11.8%     17.7%     14.7%
NPAs (net) as a %               1995-96       7.9%     4.0%     8.4%     23.1%     7.7%     17.0%     8.2%
of net advances                 1996-97      7.0%     6.2%      7.5%     19.0%    6.1%      14.6%     7.3%
1997-98      7.2%     9.0%      5.8%     19.1%    6.3%      15.0%     8.1%
1998-99      7.4%     5.0%      3.9%     15.3%    7.3%      12.4%     7.3%
1999-00      8.7%     11.3%     3.2%     11.8%    7.6%      12.2%     10.0%
2000-01       6.7%    18.7%     4.0%     10.1%     7.0%     11.2%     8.5%
Not NPAs as a % of total assets  1995-96      3.7%     1.6%      3.1%     12.5%    3.4%      6.9%     3.6%
1996-97      3.4%     2.6%      2.7%     11.9%    2.5%      5.5%      3.0%
1997-98      3.4%      3.8%     2.2%     11.1%    2.5%      5.7%      3.6%
1998-99      3.3%     2.2%      1.7%      8.9%    3.0%      5.0%      3.2%
1999-00      3.9%     4.8%      1.4%      6.6%    3.2%      5.1%      4.4%
2000-01       3.6%     7.4%     1.9%      4.2%     3.4%     4.9%      3.9%
Provisions as a % of gross NPAs  1995-96     49.3%    75.4%     65.5%     42.1%   71.2%     33.0%     57.4%
1996-97      43.8%    62.6%     65.9%    46.3%    70.8%     39.4%     54.5%
1997-98      40.6%    40.5%     66.1%    44.9%    56.7%     39.1%     42.7%
1998-99      40.8%    62.6%     65.8%    56.3%    48.8%     38.2%     52.5%
1999-00      36.3%    42.4%     61.0%    60.6%    45.5%     37.9%     43.9%
2000-01      37.6%    32.0%     50.6%    59.7%    43.8%     40.3%     42.0%
Net Interest margin             1995-96       5.5%     5.8%     4.0%      3.0%     5.1%      5.1%     5.1%
1996-97      5.7%     6.7%      4.3%      1.4%     5.8%     5.3%      5.5%
1997-98      5.3%      5.8%     4.1%      0.2%    4.2%      4.3%      4.2%
1998-99      4.4%     4.9%      4.7%      0.3%    4.3%      3.7%      4.4%
1999-00      4.1%      3.5%     5.2%      1.4%     3.6%     3.7%      3.6%
2000-01       4.7%     3.5%     6.0%      1.6%     3.5%      3.9%     3.7%
Cost to Income ratio            1995-96      65.5%    63.4%     86.6%    179.2%   95.8%     78.5%     82.6%
1996-97      64.4%    60.0%     87.8%   .140.7%   79.0%     68.4%     73.7%
1997-98      62.6%    55.2%     83.7%    167.1%   78.0%     65.0%     71.5%
1998-99      64.5%    63.6%     81.4%    140.8%   82.5%     66.6%     74.0%
1999-00      67.2%    65.2%     75.2%    96.3%    80.1%     65.3%     71.2%
2000-01 2/   69.3%    89.5%     78.4%    92.3%    74.2%     71.2%     76.3%
2000-01 3/   56.2%    72.9%     64.0%    80.4%    64.0%     70.0%     67.0%
Non-interest income as %        1995-96      30.7%    24.6%     22.7%     67.4%   26.3%     31.0%     28.5%
of total Income S/              1996-97      30.1%    22.8%     22.5%     59.6%   30.9%     31.1%     30.5%
1997-98      31.1%    30.1%     28.7%    64.5%    29.5%     35.5%     30.6%
1998-99      28.9%    25.8%     29.6%    50.1%    30.7%     29.9%     29.7%
1999-00      37.8%    33.7%     27.1%    42.0%    28.2%     31.3%     32.5%
2000-01      34.2%    30.7%     20.5%     39.3%   25.5%     26.3%     28.5%
Source: RBI. parUcipating banks and World Bank staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ This group comprises the public sector banks, excluding the six participating banks (PBs).
21 After taking Into account VRS related expenses.
31 Before taking Into accounUng VRS related expenses.
4/ For all 27 PSBs.
5/ Total Income defined as the sum of net Interest Income and non-interest Income.
- 22 -



Table 2: The divestiture of the PBs, 2001
Total public ownership   Of which:
Employees       Public      Institutional investors
Bank of India                     23.5%                2.3%          12.8%             8.4%
Syndicate Bank                    26.5%                 NA.           NA.               N.A.
Indian Overseas Bank              25.0%                2.5%          19.5%             3.0%
Dena Bank                         29.1%                      13.8%                     15.3%
Tsi*3 ULcnp        tips         FY    8*d     iwu    Syudcm   AichIOB      AWzId M        SI
kda    8En     Bwk     Bar B*                 PBs
Dq     h+at1resslff         130.80              02      0.50   0.78   Q.77     Ofi    0.71     NA
1996,97     0.94   0.75     0,59   Q78    0.81     072    0.77     NA
1997.68      1.17  0Q96    O0i9    0.84  0Q99      085    0.90     NA
199369       1.31   122     087    02     1.13     l1D    1117     NA
1999W        1A0    1A2     1.10  14     127      1.17   122      NA
2MD01'Z      1.90   1.97    132    1.35   156      1A1    1A9      NA
0/YofftA,oonphbwids         199596      5CWo   1iYo     296%   7.15%  232Yo    1.189'  269'    NA
199807      80Yo   41o     4.35%  734%   270%     1.18    429      NA
199718     10 /o  83(Yo  6.15%  737%o 39(%      1333    680%     NA
199869     1230%  130%     7A9o   8A49%  127%Yo   1A9A   140A       NA
19(0M      18a3'/% 1812%   9fi6Yo 10.78% 19.0     2110   1453      NA
Z01 Y      2D"o5%  24MM%  1253o 3064%    M06%     93A     2        NA
%Y bm    essOon=,pL d       199686      52haf  530Yo    43DYo  Zl1%   50%Yo    31Y   46B        NA
199697      575Yo  61.0%   490%    M0%   85o      31.1A  5BY      NA
19918       6309o  ffiYo   516o   290Yo 680%      37.1A  5&39W     NA
199849      68.0o  619%   590   29.1%  71D%     36B8   6Mf       NA
1999()      60%    680Yo6  755Yo  360o 74.0%     4689   6         NA
2______ __   700%  70.0h%  8(Yo   721%   73.0%          713-4      NA
RBIFK       Hi16ar bw,dWaItjsBa1  sYes
N1m VMgm4amrsx        tep*sB   :t 0%LrteskxS6!;
2/ihdtshneVdt1VRSonsWbaedasl    dMih31,2lMl.
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pmoect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisa,l   ActjaitLatest  i Perc.iageof
Project Cost By Compopnents             U$$ .$ili6p. tJ  $ r,illin   .,
Capital Restructuring Loan (CRL)                     1157.20         1351.78          116.84
Modernization and Institutional Development (MIDL)    197.70           91.18           46.12
Backstop Facility (BSF)                               200.00            0.00               0
Total Baseline Cost                                  1554.90         1442.96
Physical Contingencies                                19.60            0.00               0
Price Contingencies                                  -40.00            0.00               0
Total Project Costs             1534.50         1442.96
Total Financing Required             1534.50         1442.96    1
Notes:
1/ Price contingencies: The price contingency noted above includes an FX contingency which was included to adjust for
projected changes in the value of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar. It is assumed that because of large capital inflows at
the time the project was prepared, there would be a real exchange rate appreciation in the early phase of the project, when a
large share of disbursements were to be concentrated.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Rr   Wrhnent MOt.%'           N'S
Expeidliture,Cateb6ry      ICB    . .                                N B     .   Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          11.63          0.00         11.63
(0.00)        (0.00)         (9.80)       (0.00)        (9.80)
2. Goods                      132.50          6.40         25.39          0.00        164.29
(108.00)       (4.83)        (16.49)        (0.00)      (129.32)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00         10.88          0.00         10.88
(0.00)        (0.00)        (10.88)        (0.00)       (10.88)
4. Miscellaneous               70.00          0.00        1237.00         0.00        1307.00
(70.00)        (0.00)       (480.00)       (0.00)       (550.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          1.20          1.20
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00         39.10         39.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      202.50          6.40         1284.90       40.30        1534.10
(178.00)        (4.83)       (517.17)       (0.00)      (700.00)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expendlttre't-togory     * ICB               k:e  :   Oehord        N-B.F.    Ti;t     t
NC~~~    Other'
1. Works                      2.82          1.12          9.78         1.57         15.29
(2.82)       (1.12)        (9.78)        (0.00)      (13.72)
2. Goods                      51.43         0.15         13.74         5.81         71.13
(51.33)       (0.15)       (13.74)       (0.00)       (65.22)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          4.66         0.10         4.76
(0.00)       (0.00)        (4.66)        (0.10)      (4.76)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00        1351.78        0.00        1351.78
0           (0.00)      (300.00)       (0.00)      (300.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00                      0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00                      0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      54.25          1.27        1379.96        7.48       1442.96
(54.15)       (1.27)       (328.18)      (0.10)      (383.70)
Notes:
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs (US$ million equivalent
Local                   Foreign            Total     Total
Local &   Local &
Fomeign   Foreign
at     In Actual
Appraisal  Terms
_  At       Actual/Latest  At        ActuaUlLatest
Appraisal   Estimates    Appraisal   Estimates
IBRD         384.4                    315.6       383.7        700.0     383.7
GOI          618.4       1051.78      0                        618.4      1051.78
Participating  199.7    7.48          16.0                     215.7      7.48
banks
Total        1202.5     1059.26       331.6       383.7         1,534.1   1442.96
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identificatfon/Preparaffon
July - Aug 1994                                                      S             S
3    Economist
3    Financial Specialists
I    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
1    Procurement Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiatfon
Aug 1994 -Feb                                                        S             S
1995*                        4   Economist
3    Financial Sector Specialist
2 Financial Mgmnt. Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
I    Legal Specialist
*Includes
appraisal,
post-appraisal and
negotiation
Supervision
Sept 1995                         Task leader: Luis Emesto           S              S
I   Derbez
1   Sr. Project Officer
Economist
2   Consultants
I   Research Analyst
Nov-Dec 1995                      Task leader Luis Emesto Derbez      S             S
I   Economist
2   Financial Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
June 1996                         Task leader: Luis Ernesto Derbez    S             S
3   Economist
2   Financial Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
Oct-Nov 1996                      Task leader: Luis Ernesto Derbez    S             S
I   Economist
I   Financial Specialist
1   Procurement Specialist
Nov-Dec 1996                      Task leader: Luis Emesto Derbez     U             U
I   Sr. Country Officer
2   Economist
I   Consultant
June 1997                         Task leader: Luis Ernesto Derbez    S             S
3
-27-



Economist
2   Financial Specialist/Financial
Economist
Oct 1997                         Task leader: Jacques Toureille     S             S
I   Economist
2   Financial Specialist/Financial
Economist
I   Procurement Specialist
June 1998                        Task leader: Jacques Toureille     S             S
2   Economist
3   Financial Economist/Financial
Specialist
Nov-Dec 1998                     Task leader: Jacques Toureille     S             S
I   Financial Specialist
June 1999                        Task leader: Jacques Toureille     S             S
2   Economist
4   Financial Mgmt. Specialist
I   Financial Specialist/Financial
Economist
Aug 2000                         Task leader: Jacques Toureille     S             S
1   Economist
3   Financial Specialist
1   Procurement Specialist
Feb 2001                         Task leader: Charlie Garrigues     S             S
.2 Financial Specialist/Financial
Economist
Oct-Nov 2001                     Task leader: Charlie Garrigues      S            U
2   Financial Specialist/Financial
Economist
ICR
March-                            Task leader: Priya Basu
I    Economist
April 2002                   1    Financial Economist
I    Procurement Specialist
- 28 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
._________________                No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              83.2                      275.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   54.4                        207
Supervision                            230.5                        970
ICR                                     25.3                      126.2
Total                                  393.4                     1578.3
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
rO1 Macro policies                   * H OSUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Financial                          O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Institutional Development          O H 0 SU * M 0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM      O N * NA
OGender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
EL Private sector development        0 H O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
rI Public sector management          O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS OS      *U     OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
EL Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS       * U   O HU
L Government implementation performance             OHS OS       * U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      O U   0 HU
rO Overall                                          OHS OS       * u   O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1)   Country Assistance Strategy of The World Bank Group for India, June 27, 2001, Country
Department II South Asia Region
2)   Country Assistance Strategy of The World Bank Group for India, May 19, 1995, Country
Department II South Asia Region
3)   India Country Assistance Evaluation April 23, 2001 Operation Evaluation Department, World Bank.
4)   Evaluating Bank Assistance to India for Private Sector Development in the 1990's, - a background
paper for India Country Assistance Evaluation, October 30, 2000, Operations Evaluation
Department, World Bank
5) Staff Appraisal Report India Financial Sector Development Project Country Operations and Finance
Division South Asia Country Department 11, World Bank, February 24, 1995
6) All projects status Reports on The Financial Sector Development Project, up to December 06, 2001.
7) Back-to-office Reports, all supervision reports, Mid-term appraisal reports and Aide Memoires.
8)   The Borrowers assessment Reports
9)   IMLF - Staff Reports (latest 2001) together with Selected Issues papers on India.
10) Reserve Bank of India Reports on Trend and Progress of Banking in India (various issues including
the latest 2000-01)
11) Evaluating Bank Assistance to India for Financial Sector Development in the 1990's - a background
paper for the Country Assistance Evaluation, India by operations Evaluation Department, World
Bank, October 30, 2000
12) India-Financial Sector Development Strategy, World Bank, Draft: May, 2002.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results - A summary
The following is a broad summary of the assessment by each of the six PBs of the loans they
obtained under the FSDP.
1.     Allahabad Bank: This Bank received a loan from the World Bank amounting to Rs. 166.42
crores, under the FSDP, divided into two components - CRL Rs. 101.61 crores and MIDL, Rs. 64.81
crores.
a)     Progress under the CRL: The Bank disbursed sub-loans, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the World Bank to 27 corporate borrowers, undertaidng irifrastructure projects in power generation,
distribution of electricity, steel, pharmaceuticals, engineering products etc.
The Bank however did not go beyond preparing a plan to issue shares. This was because in its
view, the capital market conditions were not appropriate. The Bank did not state explicitly whether the
CRL loan achieved the objectives of the loan i.e. to improve its allocative and management efficiency and
competitive ability.
b)     Assessment of MIDL: On the whole, the Bank has successfully utilized the MIDL, towards
implementation of its modernization program with a view to building its financial strength and long-term
competitiveness in the liberalized business and banking environment.
i)     In regard to strategic planning which has been one of the objectives of the MIDL, the Bank
succeeded in adopting technology as a tool to improve operations, services and organizational restructuring
to enhance operational efficiency in terms of cost effectiveness, upgrading the asset quality and reducing
response time in decision making and implementation.
ii)    Benefits of the automation and computerization accrued to customers in terms of improvement in
customer service, to the Bank in terms of improved housekeeping and intemal control, to management in
terms of decision making and to the staff in terms of higher productivity.
iii)   Benefits of human resource development were reflected in professionalization of the workforce and
reward and recognition, both leading to greater productivity.
iv)    The use of MIDL loans helped technological development in every sphere of the Bank's business
activity such as zone-region-branch configuration as well as the head-office functions.
v)     The MIDL has helped the Bank to strengthen asset/liability and treasury management to control
overall balance sheet risk, liquidity and volatility through establishing automated management information
system for its investment and treasury management functions.
vi)    Under the MIDL, the Bank could put in place a risk management system in regard to credit risk,
market risk and interest rate risk. Towards this end a detailed plan was approved by the Board of Directors.
2.     Dena Bank: The Bank received Rs. 72.28 crores for the CRL and Rs. 67.55 crores (US$17.70
million) for the MIDL.
a)     Progress under CRL: The Bank provided sub-loans to 34 borrowers whose business spanned many
sectors of the Indian economy.
b)     Assessment of MIDL: (i) As of September 2001, 335 branches of the Bank have been fully
computerized, 282 branches partially computerized compared to 18 and 157, respectively at March 1996;
(ii) 250 branches and offices have been connected through leased lines; (iii) multi-branch banking services
were available at 165 branches and 37 centers with 17 on-line ATMs in June 2001; (iv) Tele-banking
facilities were available at 103 branches; (v) the Bank's organizational structure has been streamlined
from a four tier to a three tier structure. This streamlining has accelerated the process of consolidation of
data and the production of reports, risk analysis and management decisions for sanctions of loans,
- 33 -



follow-up of NPAs, their recovery procedures; (vi)The Bank set up an Institute of Infonnation Technology
in 1996, four computer laboratories, to provide training to the Bank's 2,528 officers and 1,212 computer
operators; (vii) There are several on-going projects such as audit to consolidate the computer and network
infrastucture Management Information System, Total Branch Computerization (TBC) solutions upgrade
etc.
On the whole, the Bank took full advantage of the MIDL and established a solid foundation for its
infonnation structure.
3.     Bank of India: The Bank received Rs. 348.22 crores under CRL and US$ 18 millions under
MIDL.
a)     Progress under CRL: The Bank has identified 29 industrial borrowers engaged in diverse activities,
widely dispersed geographically. The World Bank authorized for disbursement 15 out of 29 projects
involving Rs. 247.0 crores until September 31st, 2001 The remaining Rs. 101.22 crores would be
disbursed for the other projects on the submission of necessary documentation.
b)     Assessment of M[DL:
i)     Impact on the Bank's strategic planning: The MIDL has enabled the Bank in planning its strategy
to position itself as a progressive bank ready to provide state-of-the-art banking products. At present, the
number of computerized branches is 1566 - an increase of 1153 branches over 1995 - 96 level. This has
resulted in improving the staff productivity and the quality of customer services.
ii)    Impact on automation and computerization: The Bank, as of 08/31/2001 has 536 fully
computerized and 1030 partially computerized branches, accounting for 77% of its business. Further, the
Bank has made significant efforts in providing account-related information to its customers who can use
facilities like tele-banking and corporate Remote Access Terminal Services.
iii)   Impact on Human Resources: In the area of human resources, the Bank has utilized MIDL quite
effectively through setting up a network of 10 training colleges and institutes, including the Staff Training
CoUege. Apart from providing in-house training, the faculty members of the Bank's training institutes,
conduct special programs such as vertical integration for developing human capital on behavioral aspects
and promoting team-work at the branches.
iv)    Impact of MIDL on the Bank's Asset/Liabilitv management and Treasury Operations: The
computerization has helped to improve asset/liability management skills and the decision maling in
Treasury operations.
Overall, the MIDL, has been a catalyst in triggering an awareness of the use of modern technology
for streamlining the intemal processes and running the management information system in the Bank.
4.     Indian Bank The Bank received a World Bank loan of Rs. 180.94 crore under the FSDP for
Capital restructuring (CRL) which has been fully used. (There is no mention of how this Bank has assessed
this loan from the view of its performance). It received US$13.26 million under the MIDL which was fully
utilized. The Bank evaluates the impact of the MIDL as follows:
a)     The Bank could, because of this loan, change the work culture
b)     There had been considerable cost-saving on account of technological up-gradation
c)     The productivity of the work force increased due to computerization of branches and reduction in
manpower, following the adoption of Voluntary Retirement Scheme
d)     There has been a substantial increase in business, aided by computerization, reaching almost 73%
of the total business as on 09/30/2001.
5.     Indian Overseas Bank: The Bank received Rs. 132.74 crores under the CRL component which is
fully disbursed. Under MIDL, it received US$10.4 million. The Bank's assessment of the CRL is that it
could offer of shares to public, and establish an inter-branch network for greater technical competence. The
- 34 -



CRL camne in as an aid to build up Tier II capital of the Bank, which improved its capital adequacy ratio,
besides sirnultaneously ensuring the liquidity of the Bank.
The benefits of the MIDL are seen by the Bank, in a) the bank's ability to offer competitive interest
rates on term deposits, made possible by the use of the industry-wide database of interest rates, b)
improvement of customer services, c) and all round improvement in the productivity of the staff in
computerized as well as non-computerized branches of the Bank.
6.     The Syndicate Bank: The Bank received Rs. 88.79 crores under the CRL component of the FSDP
and US$ 15 million under the MIDL.
a)     CRL: The Bank's view of the CRL is that it helped it to maintain better capital adequacy ratio,
thereby increasing the level of its lendable funds. However, the drawback of the CRL is that the Bank was
not protected against the fluctuations in the rupee exchange rate.
b)     MIDL: The Bank benefited from this loan to a great extent in upgrading its technological skills
which contributed to productivity increase and the business expansion. Apart from helping computerization
of branches, the MDL was instrumental in setting up of computer labs, 8 of the 9 staff Training Colleges
of the Bank, with state-of-the-art facilities. The Bank also could improve its communication facilities and
add a number of value added services to attract new customers. Above all, the experience gained from the
MIDL, has encouraged the management and staff to be more enthusiastic in implementing centralized
banking solutions which will enable online, real time transaction capabilities for any time and anywhere.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 9. An Assessment of the Condition of India's Banking System
1. Successive post-Independence goverinents in India have pursued financial sector strategies that
involved creating a vast network of deposit mobilizing institutions throughout the country-some 67,000
bank branches were established, not to speak of thousands of cooperative banks and mutual fund sellers.
High private savings rates ensued which, coupled with macro policies that have generally kept inflation
well under 10 percent per annum, resulted in a fairly deep financial system. The liquid liabilities of banks
and other financial institutions in India amount to about 45 percent of GDP (considerably higher than the
averages for low income and lower middle income countries), stock market capitalization is about one-half
of GDP, and the annual stock market tumover is over 200 percent of market capitalization-high by any
standard. However, by the early 1990s, it became clear that the strategy had not created a financial system
that could efficiently allocate resources to productive private investment.
2. Since the early 1990s, a number of reforms have been introduced in the banking system, capital
markets, and most recently, insurance, aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of financial
intermediation. Banking reforms have focused on dismantling the complex system of interest rate controls,
introducing prudential norms and capital adequacy requirements to help regulate and supervise banks, and
creating a more competitive environment in banking by more liberal licensing of private banks and
expansion by foreign banks. First, interest rates have been liberalized and reserve requirements have been
reduced gradually. Second, the burden of priority sector lending has been reduced, by freeing up interest
rates on the larger loans, though as public sector banks there is implicit political pressure to keep rates
"reasonable". Third, entry of foreign and domestic private banks has been liberalized. Fourth, prudential
norms and have been introduced and the regulatory, supervisory and disclosure standards have been
strengthened, though they remain below best practices (see below). Fifth, efforts have been stepped up to
recognize and collect on NPAs; the March 2002 Budget Speech announced the proposal to establish an
asset reconstruction company to deal with NPAs. Sixth, costs in public sector banks have been reduced by
the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS). Seventh the government has partially privatized some of the
institutions, though retaining majority ownership.
3. Notwithstanding these reforms over the last decade, India's banking and financial system remains
endemically inefficient in its resource allocation function, as reflected in India's relatively low ratio of
private credit to GDP (23 percent) compared to over 50 percent in Indonesia and the Philippines, and over
90 percent in China. In large part, the efficiency of the system is constrained by the high fiscal deficits,
which inevitably lead to a large proportion of banking sector resources being diverted to investments in
government securities. Although the statutory requirement for such investment has been greatly reduced as
part of the reforms , Indian banks continue to invest about 40 percent of deposits in government
securities-far in excess of statutory requirements-because they are perceived as risk free assets at a time
when liberalization has increased the risks associated with commercial lending. This is especially so for
public sector banks because managers have become hesitant to take commercial risks for fear that they may
be held responsible for commercial decisions which turn sour. Insurance companies and provident also hold
a large part of their portfolios in government debt, which represents more than half of the investments of
these companies. The states' attempts to obtain funding through small scale saving puts upward pressure
on interest rates. Overall, a negative relation exists between government deficits and private sector
(corporate) investment, though, of course, other variables such as changes in policy and foreign inflows
also affect the relationship. This pattern of asset holding, reflective of India's long history of fiscal deficits,
reduces the country's susceptibility to financial crises arising in the private sector, but also reduces credit
availability to the private sector.
- 36 -



4. The government's domination of the banking system (Table 1) - with the 27 public sector banks
accounting for about 80 percent of commercial banking assets -- raises important concerns over the
efficiency of the system and calls into question the Government's financial sector strategy that is based on a
desire to retain Government control of financial institutions. The weak governance and management that is
associated with public sector financial institutions, absence of appropriate incentives, lack of a credit
culture based on commercial principles (banks have traditionally been required to make priority lending
which is not strictly based on business considerations), and poor risk management skills have hampered the
soundness, efficiency and profitability of India's financial institutions, particularly the public sector banks.
Table 1. Structure of the Indian Flnancial System! end-March 2001
No. of  its  Loans, advances  Assets   Assets
E___________________________ Institutions             I and investments                of group
LScheduled commercial banksl/                       100     10,552            10,1761     12,950       100.0
Public sector banks                           27      8,594             8,0871     10,298        79.5
State Bank Group                          8       3,121             3,0761     4,029        31.1
l   Nationalized banks                     9      5,473              5,012!     6,269        48.4
Private sector banks                         31       1,367              1,301      1,634        12.6
Foreign banks                                42         S92               788f      1,018         7.9
11. Financial Insttutions                            41      -                      |      5,410      100.00
| All-India term-lending institutions          8      .                             2,221       41.06
State-level institutions                                                     l       228         4.21
Investment institutions                       3      .                              2,880       53.24
Other institutions                                         1                                     1.49
Capital market                                            .             .              15,756      100.00
. ] . Equity 4/1 .-                                                 -      _       . . ..      . 9,600  60.93
l Debenturs                                      ... .400                                         2.54
iFinancial inst.bonds 3/                              -                               300         1.90
DGovement securities V                          |                                   2,9701      18.86
Government borrowings from small savings deposits    -                              2,065       13.11
and provident funds               1            |                            |                   0.00
Money market 2/5/                   |                                                 120        0.76
Public sector enterprise bonds    j                  -              -                300         1.901
Sources: RBI, Trends and Progress of Banking in India, 2001; RBI, Handbook of Statistics on the Indian Economy 2001.
1/ There is one non-scheduled commercial banks with under Rs. 100 million of assets.
2/ Data as ofend-March 1999.L                                     llI
3/Tilata as of end-March 1997, wich aree last published data.
4/ Stock market capitalization; estimate based on BSE cap at end-january 2001.
5/ Includes certificates of deposits issued by scheduled commercial banks and commercial paper.  !_!
- 37 -



5. The quality of the limited bank credit that does reach the private sector is rather poor. Banks'
nonperforning advances (NPAs) have continued to grow in absolute terms, with gross NPAs for the
banking system as a whole recording a growth of about 6 percent during FY 2000-01 and net NPAs
recording a growth of about 8 percent over the same period. While NPA ratios have fallen slightly in recent
years, owing to stronger efforts towards loan recovery, these trends are likely to reverse once loan
classification norms are made more stringent (in line with international practices) in the coming months.
And in any event, the ratios remain quite high, despite the currently lax norms. The gross NPA ratio (i.e.,
gross NPAs as a percent of gross advances) for the public sector banks (12.4 percent) is higher than the
industry-wide average (11.4 percent), and the Government has been forced to recapitalize the public
financial institutions, some more than once since 1990. The NPA ratio in the public sector banks is about
12 percent higher, on average, than in the old private sector banks, which have a similar client base and
priority sector requirements. And the public sector development banks have an even worse NPA record
than the public sector banks. (Table 2).The high NPAs represent a misallocation of resources or a transfer
from the performing borrowers, through higher provisioning rates; the depositors, through lower deposit
rates; or the taxpayers, through government recapitalizations. The public sector banks' spreads, needed to
cover provisions (and high costs), provide an umbrella for other, more efficient banks.
Table 2. Selected banldng system indicators
Gross NPA as a    Net NPAs as a   'Net profit as a
% of gross advances t% of net advances 1% of total assets
Scheduled commercial banks
1999-00              _                    12.71            6.8             0.7
2000-01        I__                          .4             6.2             0.5
Public sector banks
14.0             7.4A            0.6
2000-01                                   12.4             6:71             OA
Oldpvate sector banks
1999-00                                   10.8             7.11            0.8
2000-01                                   11.1             731              0.6
New private sector banks
1999-00                                    4.11            2.9             1.0
2000-01                                    5W1             3.1              08
Foreign banks
1999-00                                    7.0j            2.              1.2
2000-01                                    6.8i             1.9             0.9
7. High NPAs and the consequent need for high provisions has eroded the capital base of many banks,
which have, in the past, been unable to generate sufficient profits to replenish capital from their own
sources. (Banks have recorded high profits during the first half of 2002, owing mainly to interest rate
reductions, but these profits do not reflect sustainable improvements in the most public sector banks). Costs
are high (although costs for FY 2000-01 were high owing to the front-loading of VRS expenses). And
productivity, particularly of the public sector banks, remains low. While the VRS launched by the public
sector banks should eventually help reduce costs and improve productivity, at present, public sector banks
function at 20 percent of the productivity level of the best Indian banks While the second Narasimham
report noted that computerization had largely by-passed the public sector banks, and some steps have been
taken towards branch and business computerization, this agenda is far from complete. The
recommendations of the Vasudevan report to implement a second round of technology reforms in banks
have not yet been implemented because of a combination of factors (management problems, union
pressures, and low profits). The net result of these various factors has been a sharp decline in the profits of
- 38 -



the public sector banks as a group, with the ratio of net profits to assets having declined from an average
of 0.57 percent in FY 1999-00 to 0.42 percent in FY 2000-01. (Table 2). About one half of the public
sector banks reported net profit ratios below that level and the majority of the public sector banks would be
barely able to keep pace with asset growth, with nothing left over to increase the provisioning rate to
international best practices, or invest in modernization. Many of the old private sector banks face similar
profitability problems. Thus, even though competition in the financial sector has been limited, the
competifion that does exist, plus the economic slowdown, has raised the need not only to inject funds into
public financial institutions but has also questioned their very sustainability.
8. Banks' low profitability in the past has raised concerns about the need for more capital, the difficulties
of reaching best regulatory and supervisory standards, and even regulatory forbearance. The government
has been forced to allocate about Rs. 183 billion to recapitalize weak public sector banks over the past
decade. It is estimated that, over the next five years (which is roughly how long it will take to reform the
system), the public sector institutions would need fresh capital to the tune of Rs. 250 to 500 billion
(roughly USD 5 to 10 billion) -representing 2 to 4 percent of the country's GDP and 50 to 90 percent of
the current capital of banks. The frequent recapitalization of these banks, and the lack of pressures on
debtors from within the banks coupled with serious gaps in the legal and judicial framework, have
weakened market discipline and created moral hazard problems in the banking sector.
9. Government directed lending in priority sectors has been pared down in recent years, but even if there is
no direct government interference in credit decisions, the standards of public accountability in government
controlled banks and financial institutions tend to discourage development of commercial risk taking and
emphasize compliance with rigidly defined rules and procedures which are unlikely to produce efficient
banking. The implicit assumption that public sector banks cannot be shut down and the tendency to keep
recapitalizing weak public sector banks also present problems. These banks become effectively immune to
competitive pressure and also to supervisory discipline.
10. Efficiency is further undermined by weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory franework
underpinning the banking system. A number of prudential regulations are not fully in line with international
best practices. For example, loan classification and provisioning standards lag international best practices.
Moreover, the effectiveness of supervision is hampered by the regular application of forbearance for public
sector financial institutions resulting in a weakening of market discipline. For example, some banks have
been allowed to operate for some time with capital deficiencies. On-site and off-site supervision remain
weak and the RBI does not have in place a proper system of early warning indicators to monitor bank
performance. A prompt corrective action framework is also not yet in place. The presence of
RBI-nominated directors on the boards of public sector banks raises potential conflicts of interest between
bank management and the regulator/supervisor. Another issue of concern relates to the regulatory
architecture-namely, the existence of multiple regulatory agencies. The overlap between these various
agencies has led to problems of accountability and raised the risk of regulatory arbitrage. Of particular
concern is the overlap between the role of RBI and MOF in regulating the public sector banks. Also, there
are gaps in supervision-for example, the specialized financial institutions such as NABARD and NHB
are allowed to operate largely unsupervised.
11. Another key factor constraining efficiency is the absence of an effective legal and judicial system,
including asset foreclosure laws and a bankruptcy code which would make it easier for creditors to enforce
their claims in a reasonable manner thereby encouraging compliance by debtors and helping banks to
improve their performance. In particular, the legal framework is not geared up for efficient loan recovery
and for the enforcement of creditor rights, although the Government has recently introduced appropriate
legislation (a bankruptcy code) which, if and when it is passed, should help banks improve their
- 39 -



performance. Currently, judgments against defaulters take ten years or more and even then may not be
enforced (according to a recent RBI study). An estimated 1.4 million court cases are pending. In addition,
firms can be protected from creditor suits under the Sick Industry Act and by BIFR which, though modeled
on quick bankruptcy proceedings such as the U.S. Chapter 11, usually takes four years or more even to
decide whether a firm is viable. To date, the BIFR has managed to settle less than 10 percent of the cases
under its purview and the assets under its control have deteriorated substantially. The debt recovery
tribunals set up in 1994 have not had a major impact. The tribunals were set up to bypass the logjam in the
courts with authority over credit related cases and a mandatory transfer of pending cases. However, only a
few tribunals were originally created and legal delays limited their action. Moreover, the tribunals still lack
basic facilities, staff, and case management and record-keeping apparatus because of lack of funds. The
presiding officers are often not well-versed in banking transactions, and procedures are slow. Delaying
tactics are not penalized and no penalties exist for violation of sanctions.
12. Although the government has reduced public ownership of the banking sector somewhat in recent years,
progress has been disappointing to date, and the system remains dominated by public sector banks which
account for about 80 percent of banking assets. The 2000-01 budget promised legislation to reduce the
government's minimum shareholding in the public sector banks to 33 percent from its current level of 51
percent to enable banks to raise the capital needed for them to continue to meet the new capital adequacy
standards without government recapitalization, and to increase the autonomy of banks' boards. This
legislation has not yet been enacted. Moreover, the government's clarification of this legislation-that the
"public sector character of the banks" would be maintained, even if significant changes in ownership were
to be implemented-naturally raises concerns about continuing problems in the public sector banks and
raises questions in the minds of any potential investor about how these banks would be govemed. And, of
course, the low rates of profitability, and the poor stock market performance of the listed public sector
banks, raise questions about their attractiveness to new owners.
Overall Assessment.
13. Notwithstanding the above weaknesses, India has managed to avert a systemic financial crisis of the
type witnessed in East Asia in 1997, Russia in 1998, Brazil in 1999, and most recently, in Turkey and
Argentina. This invites the obvious question: Has India just been lucky or is there something else that
makes the Indian system more stable? Our assessment of vulnerabilities presents a mixed picture. India's
poor fiscal performance and financial sector inefficiencies are clearly negative features that could pose
significant risks if the capital account were open as elsewhere. However, the existence of capital controls
greatly moderates this risk as it reduces the extent to which there can be a destabilizing response to a
growing public debt problem. Public ownership of banks and other financial institutions and the
government guarantee that this implies, coupled with the fact financial institutions' assets are largely held
in government securities, also reduces the danger of a loss of confidence in the financial system arising
from perceived financial weaknesses and effectively rules out a run on deposits which has been a feature of
crises in other countries. The exchange rate regime has provided the flexibility needed to avoid significant
real exchange rate appreciation, which is a common problem with most fixed rate regimes. The build up of
foreign exchange reserves is unambiguously a source of strength. The net effect is that despite fiscal and
financial weaknesses, India probably does not face any immediate danger of a systemic financial crisis.
However, this stability has been bought at the cost of an economic environment in which high fiscal deficits
effectively crowd out private investment and financial sector efficiency is low, constraining growth.
Moreover, inefficiencies in the banking and financial system at large create a risk of mini financial sector
crises at the margins ( e.g. the insolvency of individual banks, the stock market crisis of February/March
2001 and related problems at UTI), the resolution of which would generate further fiscal pressures.
-40 -



30-MAY-20e2   14:43   FROM   MINISTR  OF FINANCE CDEA)    TO  461933                  P. 01
I, .
No. 10/25/94-FBJ.V
Ministry of Finnce
Department of EeonoMir, Affairs
Fund Bank Division
New DUai, ft 29' May,.O-
Please refer to your fax massage 17.4.2002 regarding ImplemeOIation
Completon Report ofthe Financial.SocLor TDveIopmet PrQj.-
The draft report has been exanined and I have been directed to sqY that it
does.not Affly capture the systenic benefits that were dived, g.&, some of tbe
participating banks like Indian Overseas Bank, Bank of India and De  Bank were
able to access the market for their cpiial needs leading Lo greater aceountability to
i1e market and induction of Shareholders Directors in the boards of the banks. The
project also helped in. acceler4king the process of cornputeriazlon in the
participating banks. The long-term urnversal beneft which bad an inmact on other
nont participating bmaks were also significanL
You are requested to take the above into eonsderation and suitably
incorporate the same in the final version of ICR. of the project
~~~~)
Dy.
Ms. Prlya Wasu
Senior Finuancil ESconomist
Wouid Rank
70 Lodi Estate
New flelbd
TOTAL P.e






Report No.:        24404
Type:    ICR



