Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H078- CE 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Community Development and Livelihood Improvement “Gemi Diriya” Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
GEMI DIRIYA FOUNDATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated July 29, 2004 
 
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H078- CE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GEMI DIRIYA 
FOUNDATION (the Foundation), a company incorporated and registered under the Sri 
Lanka Companies Act (No. 17 of 1982). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (the Recipient) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million, two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR34,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Grant Agreement, but only on condition that the Foundation agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
in accordance with a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Foundation (the Subsidiary Grant Agreement), the Grant 
proceeds provided under the Development Grant Agreement will be made available by 
the Recipient to the Foundation; and 
 
WHEREAS the Foundation, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.   
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) The Foundation declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and grant practices, and shall provide, 
Page  4
-
2
-
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Foundation shall otherwise agree, the Foundation 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Foundation shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Foundation shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the Foundation, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Foundation on the plan. 
 
Section 2.04. The Foundation shall carry out all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Foundation shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Foundation shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Foundation shall promptly inform the Association and the Recipient 
of any condition that interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by the Foundation 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the Foundation  
 
Section 3.01. The Foundation shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. The Foundation shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Foundation shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Foundation shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account is made, have the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each 
Fiscal Year, or other period agreed to by the Association,  
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year or such 
other period agreed to by the Association, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year, or such other period agreed to by the 
Association, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  6
-
4
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Grant Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Foundation shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year or other period agreed to by the 
Association, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section
 
4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the Gemi Diriya Foundation’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in paragraph 12(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the 
Foundation shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
Page  7
-
5
-
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
Foundation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date on which the Foundation is dissolved or wound up or 
ceases to exist. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex, or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Foundation: 
 
Gemi Diriya Foundation 
c/o Ministry of Samurdhi 
7A, Reid Avenue 
Colombo 7 
Sri Lanka 
 
Facsimile: 
 
94-1-2682029 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Foundation, 
may be taken or executed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation or such other 
person or persons as the Chief Executive Officer shall designate in writing, and the 
Foundation shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter C. Harrold 
Country Director, Sri Lanka 
South Asia Region 
 
GEMI DIRIYA FOUNDATION    
 
Page  9
-
7
-
By /s/ Gamimi Batuwitage 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods and equipment estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more but 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
Works required for the Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
more but less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with 
Page  11
-
9
-
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  
(c) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
(iv) 
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids; 
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; 
(ix) 
rebidding shall not be carried
 out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; 
(x) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
(xi) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the Association; 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(xii) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
(xiii) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
(xiv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and 
(xv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
3. Direct 
Contracting
Proprietary equipment and spares, books, periodicals, software, training 
materials, and small equipment, estimated to cost less than US$1000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured with the Association’s prior agreement, under direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Sub-Projects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association and paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply: 
Page  13
-
11 - 
(a) 
with respect to the first contract for works and goods awarded through 
national competitive bidding irrespective of value, and each subsequent contract for:  
(i) works estimated to cost $500,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost $250,000 
or more; and 
(b) 
with respect to the first contract for Sub-Projects in each district 
irrespective of value, and each subsequent Sub-Project containing any contracts estimated 
to cost $100,000 or more. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for complex tasks may be procured, with the Association’s approval, 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Single-Source 
Selection
(a) 
Local community support services to be provided by consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract (or any other applicable 
threshold notified by the Association from time to time) may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
A contract to train community and local-level service providers 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services by Support Organizations and Village Organizations to mobilize village 
communities for Parts A and E of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services for carrying out various audits under the Project estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
7. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Support services by junior-level support staff for project implementation and 
monitoring and services for technology development may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.19 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more financed under a Sub-
Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
General Implementation and Project Management 
1. 
The Foundation shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Plan, the Community Operational Manual, and the Environmental 
Management Framework agreed with the Association, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Foundation shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Foundation shall ensure that throughout project implementation period its 
chief executive officer shall be assisted by suitably qualified and experienced 
procurement, financial, and operational specialists and other staff in adequate numbers, 
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, to 
perform project implementation and monitoring functions. 
3. 
The Foundation shall appoint by no later than September 30, 2004, and thereafter 
maintain during project implementation period, internal auditors, whose qualifications 
and experience are satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. 
4. 
The Foundation shall establish by no later than September 30, 2005, and 
thereafter maintain during the Project implementation period, a satisfactory computerized 
financial management system for the Project that is acceptable to the Association. 
Sub-Projects 
5. 
The Foundation shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
Sub-Projects are selected and appraised in accordance with the criteria 
and procedure specified in the Implementation Plan and the Community Operational 
Manual;  
 
(b) 
Sub-Grants are released to Village Organizations and Pradeshiya Sabhas 
implementing the project in a timely manner in accordance with Sub-Grant Agreements, 
which are in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and 
 
(c) 
the Sub-Grant Agreements shall specify, among other things, that:  
(i) Sub-Grants shall be used exclusively to finance goods, works, and services required 
for preparation, approval, and implementation of village development plans and in 
accordance with terms and conditions set forth in the Community Operational Manual; 
(ii) the amount of each Sub-Grant shall be calculated according to a predetermined cost-
sharing formula as agreed with the Association and specified in the Community 
Operational Manual; and (iii) goods, works, and services shall be procured in accordance 
Page  17
-
15 - 
with procedures referred to in this Agreement and set forth in the Community 
Operational Manual. 
6. 
The Foundation shall prepare, by no later than September 30, 2004, a detailed list 
of accredited and competent Support Organizations and service providers and widely 
publish such list, in accordance with guidelines and procedures set forth in Community 
Operational Manual, to enable Village Organizations and Pradeshiya Sabhas to select one 
of the listed Support Organizations in a transparent manner, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Land Use and Acquisition 
7. 
The Foundation shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the Project shall be implemented as far as reasonably practicable on 
publicly-owned land, using exclusively land free from squatters, encroachments, or other 
encumbrances; 
 
(b) 
the Project shall not involve any involuntary land acquisition; and  
 
(c) 
where unavoidable, voluntary land acquisition shall be kept to a 
minimum, and undertaken exclusively on the basis of mutually agreed sales transactions 
or voluntary land donations, and in accordance with guidelines and procedures set forth 
in the Implementation Plan and the Community Operational Manual. 
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-Term Review 
8. 
The Foundation shall:  
(a) 
carry out an evaluation of Project implementation in the learning-pilot 
batch of twenty-four Gram Niladhari Divisions not later than June 30, 2005;  
(b) 
review with the Association the lessons learned; and  
(c) 
thereafter incorporate such lessons in the design and implementation of 
subsequent batches of Gram Niladhari Divisions in which the Project will be 
implemented. 
9. 
The Foundation shall:  
(a) 
prepare, by no later than October 31 of each year starting from Fiscal 
Year 2004, an annual plan for implementing the Project in the following Fiscal Year, 
based on a demand-driven approach, including an assessment of the potential financing 
available from the Grant and other sources of funding (including the Recipient’s own 
resources and community contributions); and  
Page  18
-
16 - 
(b)  
finalize the annual plan, with th
e
Association’s approval, by not later 
than December 31 of the Fiscal Year. 
10. 
The Foundation shall:  
(a) 
carry out a six-monthly independent technical, social, environmental, and 
process audit of project activities beginning December 31, 2004, and thereafter at 
periodic intervals throughout the project implementation period.   
(b) 
review with the Association and other stakeholders the lessons learned 
from this audit and incorporate suitable measures in future project activities. 
11. 
The Foundation shall: 
(a) 
carry out a second base-line survey of the Project by not later than  
June 30, 2006, and furnish to the Association the reports of such survey; and 
(b) 
carry out an impact evaluation at Project completion, and furnish to the 
Association the reports of such evaluation. 
 
12. 
The Foundation shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2006, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), above, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in (b) above, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d)  
The review referred to in sub-paragraph (c), above, shall be based on the 
Project’s monitoring reports as well as specific in-depth studies including, but not limited 
to, the following: (i) effectiveness and efficiency of the Foundation and the institutional 
and implementation arrangements; (ii) performance of Support Organizations; (iii) the 
second base-line survey carried out pursuant to paragraph 11(a), above; and 
 
(iv) assessment of the “before” and “after” situation in the Project areas.
Page  19
-
17 - 
 
