Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER H078- CE        
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(
Community Development and Livelihood Improvement “Gemi Diriya” 
Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 29, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H078- CE 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 2004, between the DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated February 13, 2004, 
from the Recipient describing a program of objectives, policies, and actions designed to 
strengthen the Recipient’s decentralized community development strategy (the Program) 
and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B) 
the Recipient has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of grants and other financing instruments for which it is 
eligible over a period of twelve years, the proceeds of such grants to be utilized by the 
Recipient for the carrying out of the Program; 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms 
the first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(D) 
the Gemi Diriya Foundation, a company incorporated and registered 
under the laws of the Recipient, will carry out the Project, and, for this purpose, the 
Recipient will make available to the Gemi Diriya Foundation the proceeds of the grant 
under Article II of this Agreement (the Grant); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  4
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a community or a group of individuals, to whom, or 
for whose benefit, a Sub-Project is implemented or proposed to be implemented; 
(b) 
 “Community Operational Manual” means the operational manual 
adopted by each Village Organization containing, among other things, the roles and 
responsibilities of individual agencies, processes, and procedures for preparing, 
implementing, and monitoring Sub-Projects, environmental and safeguard measures, and 
financial management and procurement methods; 
(c) 
“District Facilitation Team” means the Project’s coordinating and 
monitoring team at the district level; 
(d) 
“Divisional Facilitation Team” means a team at the divisional level that 
shall facilitate and assist the communities in planning, implementing, and monitoring the 
Project; 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association, which sets out, among other things: (i) key principles for social and 
environmental management of Sub-projects; (ii) procedures to screen and process Sub-
Projects for significant social and environmental impacts, and to assist in mitigating these 
impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles are properly applied; and  
(iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring; 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
 “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on 
January 1 and ending on the following December 31; 
(j) 
“Foundation” means the Gemi Diriya Foundation, a company 
incorporated and registered under the Sri Lanka Companies Act (No. 17 of 1982), which 
is responsible for carrying out the Project; 
(k) 
“Grama Niladhari Divisions” means administrative units in each division 
as described in the Implementation Plan and the Community Operational Manual; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(l) 
“Implementation Plan” means the Recipient’s Project Implementation 
Plan, as amended from time to time with the Association’s agreement, containing, among 
other things: (i) details regarding the categories of Sub-Projects, and the Sub-Project 
cycle; (ii) criteria for selecting Village Organizations and Support Organizations for 
Project activities; (iii) terms and conditions for Sub-Grants, and criteria for monitoring 
and evaluation activities; (iv) implementation, administration, and accounting manuals 
for project implementation, including disbursement and procurement arrangements, work 
plans, and training plans; and (v) the monitoring and performance indicators, provided, 
however, that in the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Implementation 
Plan, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(m) 
“Maha Sabha” means a general body including all the households to be 
covered by a Village Organization; 
(n) 
“Ministry of Samurdhi” means the Ministry of Samurdhi and Poverty 
Alleviation; 
(o) 
“National Project Team” means the team at the national level for 
coordinating and implementing the Project; 
(p) 
“Non-Governmental Organization” or “NGO” means a non-
governmental organization operating in the Recipient’s territory and under the 
Recipient’s laws, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Implementation Plan; 
(q) 
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means a rural local authority constituted in each 
Provincial Council under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act (No. 15 of 1987); 
(r) 
“Pradeshiya Sabha Memorandum of Understanding” means the 
memorandum of understanding between Pradeshiya Sabhas and the Foundation; 
(s) 
 “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
the Foundation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
agreement; 
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this agreement; 
(v) 
 “Sub-Grant” means financing made, or proposed to be made, to a 
Village Organization to finance goods, works, consultants’ services, and training for the 
carrying out of a Sub-Project; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(w) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Foundation 
and each Village Organization governing the terms and conditions on which a Sub-Grant 
is made; 
(x) 
 “Sub-Project” means a specific development project or scheme for 
which financing in the form of a Sub-Grant is made available under Parts A and E of the 
Project; 
(y) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Foundation governing the terms and conditions under 
which the Recipient will make available the Grant proceeds to the Foundation; 
(z) 
“Support Organizations” means any NGO, Village Organization, 
consulting firms, and individuals that have met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Implementation Plan; and 
(aa) 
“Village Organization” means any rural community based organization, 
association, society, non-governmental organization, or user group constituted under, or 
governed by, the Companies Act (No. 17 of 1982), the Cooperative Act (No. 5 of 1982), 
the Society Act (No. 55 of 1949), the Agrarian Development Act (No. 48 of 2002), and 
the Voluntary Social Service Organization Act (No. 31 of 1980) that satisfies the 
eligibility criteria in the Implementation Plan. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to grant to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty-four million, two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 34,200,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a 
Page  7
-
5
-
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date 
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and 
October 1 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall cause the 
Foundation to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and rural 
development practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services, and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall make available proceeds of the 
Grant, allocated in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the 
Foundation under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Foundation, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association. 
 
(b)   
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement and in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Association, comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and accomplish 
the purposes of the Grant, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall cause the Foundation and all other project 
agencies and teams to implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan, the Community Operational Manual, and the Environmental 
Management Framework agreed with the Association, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.   
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall take all necessary action to ensure that the 
Foundation remains responsible for management and coordination of project activities.   
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall ensure the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Foundation shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, or 
waived without the Association’s prior consent. 
Section 3.06.  The Recipient shall nominate ordinary members and directors of 
the Foundation in accordance with the Foundation’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association after prior consultation with the Association. 
Section 3.07.  The Recipient shall obtain the Association’s prior consent when 
discharging any responsibilities under the Foundation’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association relating to the appointment and removal of the Foundation’s chief executive 
officer. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  The Recipient shall cause the Foundation to establish and maintain 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect its operations, resources, and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely that:  
(a)    
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been 
made that would materially reverse the Program’s objectives or any actions taken 
under it; 
Page  9
-
7
-
(b) 
the Foundation shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; 
 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Foundation will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; 
 
(d) 
the Memorandum and Articles of Association shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Foundation to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
the Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution, disestablishment, or winding-up of the 
Foundation or for the suspension of its operations, without the Association’s prior 
approval. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as additional matter, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions 
to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized and ratified by the Foundation, and is legally binding upon the Foundation in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  10
-
8
-
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance, or the Director General, 
External Resources Department, Ministry of Policy Development and Implementation, of 
the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN 
  FINMIN 
21409  94-1-
449823 
 
FORAID 21232  
94-1-447633 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
By /s/ Punchi B. Jayasundara 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter C. Harrold 
 
Country Director, Sri Lanka 
South Asia Region 
Page  12
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services, and training financed  
 
through Sub-Grants 
22,800,000 
   95%     
 
(2) 
Works 
400,000 
   80% 
 
(3) 
Goods 
900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured 
locally 
 
(4) 
Training and Workshops 
3,300,000 
   100% 
    
 
(5) 
Consultants’ services 
2,300,000 
100% of foreign 
 
(including audit) 
 
expenditures and 80% 
 
of
local 
expenditures   
 
for consultant services 
 
by
firms and 75% of 
 
local expenditures for 
 
consultant services by 
 
individuals 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 1,700,000   
80% until  
December 31, 2006; 
70% from January 
1, 2007 until 
December 31, 2008; 
and 60% thereafter 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
  2,800,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 34,200,000 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient, provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental recurrent 
expenditures incurred on account of the Project for per diems, office supplies, vehicle 
rental charges (including insurance), motorcycle operating charges (fuel, maintenance, 
and insurance), maintenance of office equipment, telephone and other communications 
charges, office rent, salaries of contract staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient's civil and public service. 
3.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 1,300,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after August 31, 2003. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures incurred for: (i) contracts for 
goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for goods or works 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each financed under a Sub-Project; (iii) contracts 
for civil works costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (iv) contracts with consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (v) contracts with individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (vi) contracts with consulting firms 
or individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each financed under a Sub-
Project; (vii) all training and workshops; and (viii) all Incremental Operating Costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
6. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of 
the Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount 
equivalent to the amount so used. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account 
in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for 
carrying out the Project. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the 
Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information 
required for Report-based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals for payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the 
Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Gemi Diriya Foundation shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of the 
Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case 
may be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Recipient and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
Page  16
-
14 - 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount. 
 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant 
Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account  
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of US$3,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16 - 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  19
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
This Project’s objective is to assist the Recipient in its efforts to improve 
the livelihood and quality of life of its rural communities in the Uva, 
Sabaragamuwa, and Southern provinces.  This objective will be achieved through: 
(a) devolving decision-making power and resources to community organizations; 
(b) strengthening selected local governments that demonstrate responsiveness and 
accountability to rural communities; and (c) working with federations of Village 
Organizations, the private sector, and NGOs on economic empowerment to 
increase the size and diversity of livelihood.  
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Village Development
1. 
Development and Strengthening of Village Organizations
Activities to be financed under this component shall include: (i) facilitation 
support to communities by the Divisional Facilitation Team; (ii)
 
support by resource 
persons, the Support Organizations, and other relevant institutions with expertise in 
capacity building; (iii) workshops and training for community members, Village 
Organizations, and facilitators; (iv) capacity-building of para-professionals; (v) technical 
support to develop private sector linkages; (vi) support to develop employment agency 
connections by linking potential youth to employment opportunities; and (vii) technical 
support to establish and operate Village Organizations, federations, and savings and loan 
organizations. 
2. Community 
Sub-Projects
This component shall finance the following activities:  
(i)  
establishing and operating Capacity-Building Funds to provide 
institutional, administrative, and human resource support for 
Village Organizations; 
(ii)  
technical assistance to Village Organizations for preparing and 
developing Sub-Projects, implementation of activities financed by 
Sub-Projects, and monitoring and evaluation functions; and 
Page  20
-
18 - 
(iii) 
developing sustainable community-owned and managed savings 
and grant facilities for communities to engage in various 
livelihood-support activities. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Activities to support capacity-building and training in national, district, and 
divisional project teams. 
2. 
Capacity-building activities and facilitating the involvement of Support 
Organizations and the private sector in expanding livelihoods options for rural 
communities. 
3. 
Establishing and strengthening a monitoring and learning system for project 
agencies at all levels. 
Part C
:
Innovation Seed Fund
Piloting innovative ideas which need experimentation, learning, and incubation 
that have the potential for being scaled-up and replicated, including, among other things, 
the development of new economic activities with value-added products for livelihood 
improvement, and the provision of access to information technology and communication 
to rural communities. 
Part D
:
Project Management
Coordination and management of project activities. 
Part E:
Village Self-Help Learning Initiative
Implementation of the village self-help learning initiative pilot in selected areas, 
through Sub-Projects and technical assistance and training, to test an institutional set-up 
that operationalizes participatory planning, thereby empowering effective decision-
making by communities and increasing their access to resources and services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  21
-
19 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05 and Article VII, are deleted in 
their entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 2.03(b), 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall 
continue to read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
 
Page  22
-
20 - 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03 Amount of the Grant. 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
Section 6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in 
Section 
6.02(c)(i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Recipient shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Grant.” 
 
6. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
7. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Page  23
-
21 - 
 
Vikram Raghavan 
M:\legsa\SRI LANKA\Gemi Diriya (Community Development) Project\Development Grant 
Agreement (Board).doc 
March 31, 2004 11:01 AM
 
