                                Document of
                               World Bank




                                                               Report No.: 92788




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

            INVESTING IN SOCIAL CAPITAL:
 LESSONS FROM A DECADE OF VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT IN
                     SRI LANKA

                  A Project Performance Assessment of the
                 Gemi Dirya Project in Sri Lanka (2004-2010)

                               March 13, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                   ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.)

2004             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 76.28
2005             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 83.17
2006             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 92.19
2007             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 104.21
2008             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 107.51
2009             US$1.00          =                 Rs. 114.84
2010             US$ 1.00         =                 Rs. 108.43

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community Based Organization
CDD      Community-Driven Development
GDF      Gemi Diriya Foundation
GND      Gram Niladhari Division
GOSL     Government of Sri Lanka
HH       Household
IAS      End line assessment study of 2010
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICRR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
IEGPS    IEG Public Sector Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MTR      Mid-term Review
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PPAR     Project Performance Assessment Report
VO       Village Organization
VSCO     Village Savings and Credit Organization
VSHLI    Village Self-Help Learning Initiative



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1- December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                 :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
Secondee, USAID Bureau of Policy and Planning                  Mr. Travis Mayo
Consultant, Field Manager/ Facilitator (Focus Groups)          Ms. Kathryn Steingraber
Consultant, Team Lead, Household Survey                        Ms. Sonali Moonesinghe
                                                                      v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Acknowledgements ............................................................................................................ ix
Preface................................................................................................................................. x
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................... xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
       Implementation Arrangements.................................................................................... 3
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 3
   Relevance of Project Design ........................................................................................... 6
3. Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 10
   M&E Design and Implementation ................................................................................ 10
4. Efficacy ......................................................................................................................... 13
       Poverty Targeting...................................................................................................... 13
       Objective: Livelihood Improvement and Quality of life .......................................... 13
       Sub-objective: Accountable and Self-Governing Village Organizations ................. 17
       Sub-objective: Managing Sustainable Investments .................................................. 19
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 20
6. Risk to Development Outcomes ................................................................................... 21
       Institutional Resilience and quality of participation ................................................. 23
........................................................................................................................................... 26
7. The World Bank’s Safeguards Policies: Environmental and Social Sustainability...... 26
8. Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................................. 27
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 27
       Quality at Entry ......................................................................................................... 27
       Quality of Supervision .............................................................................................. 29
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 29
       Government Performance ......................................................................................... 29

This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer and Rural Livelihoods Specialist in
the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank in collaboration with Travis Mayo, USAID Bureau
of Policy and Planning (seconded to IEG at the time of this review) and Kathryn Steingraber, Field Team
Manager and IEG consultant. The PPAR mission was conducted in June 2014. The report was peer
reviewed by John Erikkson, Former Country Director USAID Sri Lanka and Senior Consultant, IEGPS and
Panel Reviewed by Judyth Twigg, Professor at Virginia Commonwealth University and Senior Consultant
IEGPS. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                                     vi


9. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 31
References ......................................................................................................................... 33
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 35
Annex B. IEG Household Survey Methodology .............................................................. 38
Annex C. Persons Consulted*........................................................................................... 41
Annex D. Borrower Comments ........................................................................................ 44



Boxes
Box 2.1: Learning from Gal Oya ........................................................................................ 5
Box 2.2: When Innovation Requires Explanation: The Failure of the Innovation Seed
Fund .................................................................................................................................. 10
Box 3.1: Readiness Criteria for Phase II........................................................................... 11
Box 4.1: Working Together to Bring Clean Water to Dangamuwe Village ....................... 15

Tables
Table 4.1 The Project Exceeded its Quantitative Targets ................................................. 17
Table 4.2: Measuring Perceptions about Budget Transparency across Village Grades ... 19
Table 6.1: Reasons for Leaving Gemi Diriya Activities by Wealth Rank........................ 24
Table 9.1: Proportional Sample Allocation ...................................................................... 38
Table 9.2: Sample Composition of the PPAR Assessment (n=502)................................. 39
Table 9.3: Divisions selected ............................................................................................ 39
Table 9.4: Villages Randomly Selected for Semi-Structured Interviews ......................... 40

Figures
Figure 2.1: Characteristics of Sri Lanka’s Poverty Reduction Programs ........................... 9
Figure 4.1: Tracking Perceptions about Budget Transparency (2010, 2014) ................... 18
Figure 6.1 HH Participation in Gemi Diriya Remains Strong, but is in Decline.............. 23
Figure 6.2: Does the VO supported by GD Still Exist? If Yes, when was the last meeting?
........................................................................................................................................... 25
                                                              vii


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                       ICR Review*                            PPAR
 Outcome                            Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
 Risk to                                High                              High                         Significant
 Development
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Borrower                           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                              Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                   Sector Director                     Country Director
 Appraisal               Meena M. Munshi                    Constance A. Bernard                  Peter C. Harrold
                        Terrence Abeysekera
 Completion                Meena M. Munshi                          John Stein                        Naoko Ishii
                                                          viii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             ix


Acknowledgements
This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer and Rural Livelihoods
Specialist in the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank in collaboration with Travis
Mayo, USAID Bureau of Policy and Planning (seconded to IEG at the time of this review) and
Kathryn Steingraber, Bank Field Team Manager. Sonali Moonesinghe, Consultant, oversaw
and conducted IEG’s Household Survey and Focus Groups in partnership with Ameer
Sulaimalabbe and Jyanthi Anand to whom IEG owes a debt of thanks for their tireless efforts
and time taken away from home and family. Vichitrani (Vichi) Liyana Gunawardene, Rural
Livelihoods Consultant (World Bank, FAO) was instrumental in orienting the team to the
country, sector issues and relevant decentralized agencies. IEG utilized a new data collection
and analysis platform –“First Mile Geo”-- whose customer support team provided excellent
guidance and timely response. Samanmalee Kumari Sirimanne and Daphne Manjula Jebamani
of the World Bank Country Office in Colombo provided in-country support.

The review was overseen by Marie Gaarder, Manager, Public Sector Evaluation. It was peer
reviewed by John Eriksson (Former Country Director, USAID, Sri Lanka and Senior
Evaluation Consultant, IEG) and Panel Reviewed by Judyth Twigg (Professor, Virginia
Commonwealth University and Senior Evaluation Consultant, IEG).
                                             x


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment of the Community Development and
Livelihoods Improvement “Gemi Diriya” phase I project that became effective in October
2004 and that closed in March 2010, one year after the original planned closing date.
Estimated project costs were US$68.9 million, including US$51 million of IDA financing
and US$11 million of borrower financing, with the remaining US$7.8 expected to come
from community contributions. Actual project finance was US$58.11 million or 83 percent
of total anticipated project costs. The IDA grant was fully disbursed; however, the borrower
contribution was half of what was anticipated owing to needs associated with the 2004
tsunami and the roll-out of its national rural livelihoods program towards project end.
Community contributions were also roughly half of what were anticipated since not all
works had been completed by project close.

The assessment is based on a review of all relevant documentation, interviews of Bank
staff at headquarters and in the country office, and the findings of an Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) mission which visited Sri Lanka in June 2014 to discuss
performance with officials engaged with the project (including Gemi Diriya Foundation
staff active during the first phase), representatives of donor organizations engaged in rural
development in the country, and other stakeholders. The IEG mission administered a
household survey to 502 randomly selected households in fifty Gemi Diriya villages. Focus
groups, group interviews and individual interviews were also conducted in twelve of the
fifty randomly selected villages to triangulate perceptions within and between key
stakeholder groups (Divisional secretaries, village administrators – the Grama Niladari,
local elected officials – the Pradeshi Sabhas, the Board of Directors of Village
Organizations formed under the project, and women’s groups). While many of the names
of persons met during the mission are included in Annex C, the names of Survey
Respondents and Focus Group Participants are withheld from the list in line with IEG’s
evaluation and ethics protocols regarding confidentiality.

Copies of the draft PPAR were sent to Government officials and implementing agencies
for their review. A copy of the Borrower Response can be found in Annex D of this
report.
                                             xi


Executive Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment of the Sri Lanka Community Development and
Livelihoods Improvement project implemented between 2004 and 2010 in three of Sri
Lanka’s southernmost provinces. Referred to as the Gemi Diriya project - which in
Sinhalese translates as “Raising the Village” - the project was one of the first and since
only truly participatory development programs supported by the World Bank in Sri Lanka.
Designed as a three-phase twelve year IDA-supported adjustable loan, the overall aim was
to support the Government’s strategy of reducing rural poverty and to promote sustainable
and equitable rural development. The objective of the first phase – the phase under review-
- was to target poor communities in the Uva and Southern provinces and improve their
livelihood and quality of life by enabling them to build accountable and self-governing
local institutions and to manage sustainable investments.

This is a substantially relevant objective developed during a period of relative enthusiasm
for deepening Sri Lanka’s devolution process. It supported a bottom-up approach that
sought to increase the resilience of the poorest by devolving decision-making power and
resources to representative and inclusive village organizations. A parallel aim to strengthen
selected local governments was also highly relevant but under-prioritized as part of this
process. Project design was path breaking and rated substantially relevant by this review
with the acknowledgement that relevance waned over the course of implementation owing
to the changing political landscape. Methods employed to target poverty were unmatched
in Sri Lanka at the time of design—the project used an Unmet Basic Needs Index to select
the project villages and a participatory poverty mapping exercise to identify the poorest of
the poor at the household level in participating villages. However the Gemi Diriya
Foundation, founded and financed by the project, ultimately proved antithetical to the
Government’s own vision for poverty reduction which retrenched responsibility for village
development within its civil service.

The Overall Project Objective of targeting poor communities in the Uva and Southern
provinces and improving their livelihood and quality of life was highly achieved. As
validated by IEG, an estimated 67 percent of the project constituency was poor (and 6
percent of this group could be characterized as poorest of the poor). The project financed
the development of 1,034 savings and credit organizations which gave 60-65 percent of all
participating households access to new or expanded forms of savings or credit. The end
line assessment found that participating households experienced, on average, a 41 percent
incremental increase in income as compared to households in control villages. According
to assessment, 78 percent of participating households used the financing to initiate or
expand agricultural income generating activities, as well as non-farm activities. IEG’s
household survey suggests that a higher level of financing was used to smooth consumption
than was reported: IEG’s Household Survey found that only 50 percent of the surveyed
sample used their loan for the development or expansion of agricultural activities or
investment in non-farm activities. With average loan sizes set at US$40-US$400, few
beneficiaries were capable of diversifying their household income; only 5 percent of the
surveyed population reported investing in high value commercial crops.

Complementarity of subprojects to the savings and loan schemes contributed to this effect,
including an increased level of access afforded by the construction of 1,415 infrastructure
                                            xii


projects. A perception survey conducted by IEG of both participating and non-participating
households found that 77 percent of participating households reported that their quality of
life had improved (due to the asset) as compared to 42.5 percent of households that did not
participate in project activities. The most frequently reported benefits include improved
access (to markets, government, financial, health and education services), time savings,
and opportunities to expand domestic productive activities, such as home gardening and
brick making. Respondents who expressed dissatisfaction with the water projects pointed
to poor water quality and insufficient supply during the dry season. Dissatisfaction with
the provision of rural roads was related to their short length and location.

The project’s sub-objective of enabling these communities to build accountable and self-
governing local institutions was substantially achieved. The project supported the
establishment of 1,034 village organizations compared to a target of 650 and an equal
number of Savings and Credit Organizations as compared to 400 planned. The project’s
M&E system did not include qualitative indicators capable of capturing the level at which
these institutions were accountable and being effectively self-governed, however. As such,
IEG’s Household Survey was designed to investigate this aim. The project posited that
accountable organizations would promote social inclusion by facilitating wide-scale
participation in decision-making and priority setting and by ensuring that project benefits
are distributed equally. IEG found that the program was highly socially inclusive of the
poor – and also instructive – with regard to the challenges it faced in reaching the poorest
of the poor. Based on self-reporting at the household level, IEG estimates that, on average,
70 percent of a consenting village’s population participated in Village Organization
activities during project implementation while the poorest of the poor may have been
reticent to join the program for fear of losing their welfare (Samurdhi) benefits. IEG was
unable to ascertain whether this fear was justified.

Accountable organizations would also promote transparency around the use of funds, their
allocation, and the quality of services provided. The project’s end line assessment found
that 93 percent of participating households agreed that: “People are informed about how
development funds are spent on village development.” Less than 1 percent of this
population, at the time of project close, completely disagreed with this statement. The Gemi
Diriya model was governed by a set of rules, regulations and systems designed to promote
transparency and accountability between the communities and service providers. Specific
features included social Audit sub-committees that conducted input and expenditure
tracking and a report card system that tracked the performance of the village governing
bodies and service providers. IEG’s Focus Group Discussions revealed that beneficiaries
were highly satisfied with these project supported systems. Five years after project close,
however, villagers reported being less informed about how development funds are spent:
just under 50 percent of all surveyed households expressed disagreement with this
statement repeated by IEG in 2014, including 35 percent of the surveyed population that
strongly disagreed.

IEG also confirmed that the project effectively targeted and was meaningfully inclusive of
women. The IEG Household Survey found that, on average, women constituted 68 percent
of the Savings and Credit scheme membership and Focus Group Discussions confirmed
that women assumed key leadership roles in the organizations. Loans were often taken by
women for needs other than her own -- suggesting that more research is needed on intra-
                                             xiii


household decision-making and its effect on women’s welfare in the areas targeted by the
Gemi Diriya project in Sri Lanka.

The project’s sub-objective of enabling these communities to manage sustainable
investments was substantially achieved. Five years after project close, IEG found that, on
average, roughly one out of every two village households in the former Gemi Diriya
villages (46 percent) still participate in Gemi Diriya activities (mainly the Village Savings
and Credit Organization). The emphasis placed on transparency and accountability is one
of the explanatory factors as to why the revolving funds have been maintained. Information
on current funding levels, allocations and loan recovery was publicly available in eleven
of the twelve Focus Group villages visited by IEG. Based on self-reporting, IEG also found
that the community infrastructure developed under the project was, for the most part, being
maintained. Mechanisms for cost recovery were built into the water supply schemes.
Similar mechanisms were not developed for roads however. Generally, village
organizations have been reluctant to invest their savings in infrastructure repair, with some
exceptions. In Sri Lanka, communities utilize a caretaker system which provides a nominal
payment for operations and maintenance of infrastructure which varies across village
organizations.

Efficiency is rated Modest. Considering a range of infrastructure types and comparing them
to equivalent government contracted works, the project produced an average relative
savings of 36 percent. Data collected by the Infrastructure Unit of the project’s
implementing agency and verified by the end line assessment found that the unit costs of
government constructed roads far exceeded those of the project (although part of the
savings observed is derived from community contributions). Social and public
accountability mechanisms, including participatory budgeting, report cards, social audits
and expenditure tracking increased the efficiency of the procurement of goods and services.
These features also contributed to the resilience of the infrastructure. Mechanism for the
operations and maintenance of road infrastructure were less efficiently designed than other
parts of the program however. The project did not conduct an economic rate of return
analysis at appraisal and IEG was not able to obtain the economic analysis to validate the
ex-post rate of 30.5 percent reported in the ICR.

Risk to Development Outcomes is rated Significant. While there was notable poverty
impacts achieved through the project, efforts to federate the village organizations to
heighten their impact have been stalled. Facets of the program that effectively supported
the identification and discrete targeting of the poor have not been replicated by the national
rural poverty reduction program. Investments made in training a cadre of rural service
providers in community driven development techniques has been undermined by the
dismantling of the project foundation. Factors are primarily attributable to the political
economy prevailing at the time and Government’s own approach to addressing poverty that
were counter to the envisaged evolution of community development under CDD approach.
A country that is not included in the Bank’s Fragile and Conflict Affected State List – the
transition between the first and second phase could have benefited from a fragility
assessment or a sector political economy analysis, especially given the sensitivity of the
country’s decentralization process.
                                            xiv


Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory. Project preparation was informed by a pilot
scheme and further tested in an initial batch of villages located in different geographical
settings. Valuable skills were applied in supervision which focused on learning and
experience sharing. There was a high level of innovation in the project and creative use of
experience from elsewhere.

Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Government exhibited strong
commitment to the principles of participatory rural development during project design and
throughout early stages of implementation. Its support waned however as the project
progressed as demonstrated partially by the 50 percent reduction in committed borrower
financing. Principles and practices that contributed to the project’s poverty impacts – such
as participatory poverty mapping, pro-poor group formation, strong facilitation, and social
accountability tools - have not been effectively integrated into the subsequent design of the
national rural poverty program. The project’s implementing agency – the Gemi Diriya
foundation – effectively oversaw and implemented village development activities but a
decision to disband the entity has eroded the initially demonstrated returns on the
program’s human and social capital investments.


Lessons

 •     Programmatic Approaches that involve multiple stages of lending require
 iterative analysis of national priorities which can be interpreted through political
 economy analyses. This iterative analysis is especially critical in areas or countries
 that are affected by fragility or conflict. In the case of Gemi Diriya, sensitivities
 increased alongside efforts to scale-up a village empowerment model as the proposed
 federated system began to resemble too closely a parallel structure of Government.
 Hostilities increased sensitivities towards the composition of locally elected bodies
 endowed with decision-making power (and funding) designed to more effectively
 identify and respond to village development priorities.

 •      A relatively autonomous implementing agency allowing greater flexibility than
 a line agency may be very valuable for testing new participatory models but the
 roadmap of its evolution towards sustainable institutionalization, i.e. folding it back
 into a government institution, needs to be planned in advance and then later, if
 necessary, adapted as the political and economic environment evolves. The use of a
 semi-autonomous implementing agency was effective in implementing an innovative new
 approach to rural development in Sri Lanka, but the approach lacked a transition plan and
 a strategy for communicating the tested merits of the new model to policy makers. Staff
 trained in community driven development principles ultimately found their skills to be
 “unsellable” within the national rural service delivery model The per unit staffing costs
 of the model also would have required some reconfiguration in order to bring it to scale.

 •     Continuity of community support up to a defined point of graduation - that
 includes mechanisms for involvement of the poor and the marginalized - is
 important for longer term sustainability of participatory community development
 processes. The Gemi Diriya model was designed as a self-selecting vehicle for poverty
 reduction whose activities would gradually lose appeal to households moving up the
                                          xv


income ladder. Household graduation could generate and free up resources for the
remaining poor. But sustained outreach and support for inclusive participation in local
decision-making across several rounds would be needed to reach the poorest of the poor.
•      Synergies between the provision of financial services and complementary
infrastructure investments, carefully designed, can offer compounded community
welfare benefits. In the case of Gemi Diriya, water supply projects provided an additional
critical input needed to complement the financial investments made in agricultural
(irrigation) and non-farm (brick-making) activities. The improvement of rural roads
further supported an enhanced return on investments by improving market access.




                                                                  Caroline Heider
                                                                  Director-General
                                                                     Evaluation
                                                1


1. Background and Context
1.1     The Gemi Diriya project was developed during a relatively peaceful period of Sri
Lanka’s recent history following the internationally mediated 2002 ceasefire agreement
between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and
just prior to the December 2004 Tsunami and the resumption of warring activities (2006-2009).
A series of successive negotiations culminating in the ceasefire agreement gave rise to the
election of a new Administration that was private sector oriented and reform minded. During
this interim period, Sri Lanka began to experience a gradual economic recovery with an
average annual growth rate of more than 5 percent. Yet at the same time, 25 percent of the
population was estimated to be living below the national poverty line, with large disparities
among regions, and a significant level of vulnerability reported within rural areas (World Bank,
2003).

1.2     Sri Lanka is an outlier in the South Asia region. It was one of the first developing
countries to provide universal healthcare and education to its population, and as a result boasts
some of the highest human development indicators in the region, including many that are on
par with developed economies. Access to services, on the other hand, was and remains
inadequate. At the time of project design, 38 percent of poor households had access to
electricity, 55 percent to safe sanitation and 61 percent to safe drinking water. Access to
technical education and training was low in poor regions. And the lack of efficient targeting
by the State’s social protection program continues to limit the availability of meaningful levels
of support for the poorest. In 2004, 60 percent of Sri Lanka’s population was receiving benefits
from Samurdhi, its national welfare scheme. In 2013, that figure had declined to 47 percent,
but remains significantly out of step with World Bank corroborated poverty figures.

1.3     To more effectively provide goods and services to the rural poor, Sri Lanka’s Poverty
Reduction Strategy (2003) proposed that the role of the state needed to change from that of a
service “provider” to a “facilitator” of private sector activity to free up public resources and to
more effectively reduce poverty. It would achieve this by reforming the public administration,
improving transparency and accountability and continuing to support the decentralization
process launched in 1987 under the 13th Amendment to the Constitution (accompanied by
Provincial and Local Acts).

1.4     The process had endowed Provincial and locally elected (Pradeshiya Sabha) officials
with a degree of authority, but village level systems remained aligned with Sri Lanka’s parallel
system of appointed authority, and as such, were ill-equipped to participate and effectively
interact with the elected schemes. At the village level, community based rural development
and farmer societies have historically performed various service delivery functions that while
constitutionally recognized, lack legitimacy and representation of the village population.
Women’s Societies were also in existence but were weak and mainly oriented towards social
welfare activities rather than bolstering savings and investment. Concomitantly, there was no
mechanism at the village level to promote accountable service delivery – a factor that was
contributing to lower than desired returns on government funded public infrastructure
investments.
                                                2


1.5     The Gemi Diriya project was designed to support the Government of Sri Lanka’s
strategy of reducing rural poverty and promoting sustainable and equitable rural development
by supporting: (i) better access of the poor to basic social and economic infrastructure and
services and support for productive activities; and (ii) the development of policies, rules,
systems, procedures and institutional arrangements that would allow the government to
transfer funds directly to communities and provide them with technical and other support on a
demand-driven basis. It would do this by supporting the development of village organizations
and by endowing these organizations with funding for demand-driven village infrastructure
investments and village based savings and credit organizations that would promote financial
inclusion of the poor.


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1      Designed as a three-phase twelve year IDA-supported adjustable program, the
overarching objective of Gemi Diriya was to “support the Government of Sri Lanka’s strategy
of reducing rural poverty and promoting sustainable and equitable rural development through:
(i) better access of the poor to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support
for productive activities; and (ii) the development of policies, rules, systems, procedures and
institutional arrangements that would allow the government to transfer funds directly to
communities and provide them with technical and other support on a demand-driven basis”.

2.2     The objective of the Gemi Diriya Phase I – the phase under review-- was to target poor
communities in the Uva and Southern provinces and improve their livelihood and quality of
life by enabling them to build accountable and self-governing local institutions and to manage
sustainable investments.

2.3      With total costs estimated at US$69 million, the project was designed to spend the bulk
of these funds (US$49.5m) on Village Development, which included the development and
strengthening of new participatory and inclusive village organizations (VOs), the funding of
community sub-projects, and the capitalization of Village Savings and Credit Organizations
(VSCOs). An additional US$5.7m was designed to be spent on building the capacity of local
agencies and technical support organizations. Emphasis was placed on introducing social and
public accountability mechanisms to enhance equity and efficiency in the local procurement
of goods and services and to demonstrate the feasibility of this approach for future local
development planning. Overall project management costs were underestimated– at US$2.5
million with actual costs for project coordination management at the national, provincial and
district level totaling US$4.7 million by project close. And a small amount of financing
(US$1.3m) was directed toward the piloting of an Innovation Seed Fund which was designed
to incentivize innovation in the agricultural sector.

2.4     The actual overall project costs were US$58 million as compared to US$69 million as
planned. The IDA grant was fully disbursed, however both the borrower and the community
contributions were less than anticipated. Actual borrower financing was half of the amount
committed at appraisal (US$5.3m versus US$11m) owing to two factors: funds were diverted
after the Tsunami to support recovery operations and later to directly support Gama Neguma
communities that were not part of the Gemi Diriya project. The actual community contribution
                                               3


was also roughly half of what had been anticipated (US$3.6m versus US$7.8) since not all
works had been completed by project close.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.5     A community driven development program, the project placed the village at the center
of its organizational structure: facilitation services were designed to oversee the formation of
healthy village organizations – endowed with elected leadership, inclusive membership, seed
capital and the skills necessary to manage their new found decision-making, savings and
investment capacity.

2.6     The first phase of the project supported the development of 1034 Village Organization
(VOs) which were constituted under the country’s Companies Act and governed by an elected
Board of Directors comprised of members of the village. Each Village Organization was also
endowed with a financial arm, called a Village Savings and Credit Organization (VSCO),
established for the purpose of savings and recurrent investment. The project supported the
federation of the Village Organizations at the district level. Beneficiaries belonging to the VO
also periodically participated in a Maha Sabha, or general assembly meeting.

2.7      Facilitation services were provided by a project financed Foundation – the Gemi Diriya
Foundation – which by project end included 500 skilled and trained young professionals, of
which 350 were social mobilizers (living and working in the villages). Recruitment was
competitive; the recruitment strategy included an offer of relatively high wages to attract young
degree holders eager to work hard and make a difference. Designed as a youth oriented skills
development center, the Foundation was appended to the envisioned twelve year program
whereby staff would acquire skills in all areas of CDD type project implementation, including,
inter alia, participatory appraisal, community contracting and local funds management. Staff
were hired for one year intervals against which point an internal human resource function
would gauge and grade their performance, with poor performers facing a possible non-renewal
of their contract.

Relevance of Objectives
2.8    Was Gemi Diriya’s first phase objective—of enabling the targeted communities of Uva
and Southern Provinces to improve their livelihoods and quality of life by building accountable
and self-governing institutions and to manage sustainable investments – relevant? This
assessment finds that this objective was highly aligned with the country’s strategic vision for
growth, peace, shared prosperity and unity as expressed in the 2001 CAS and its Poverty
Reduction Strategy and as such, was Highly Relevant at the time of Project Design.

2.9     The intensification of ethnic strife in the 1980s, and Tamil separatist demands backed
by militant action, arose in large degree from a sense of being marginalized within Sri Lanka’s
centralized state system accompanied by policies and practices viewed as discriminatory to
Tamils (e.g. public sector employment, business regulations, university admissions, language
policy), making it imperative to devise some form of devolution of power that would be more
successful than past failed initiatives with this intent. After prolonged discussions between the
government and Tamil groups, with India’s intervention, provision was made for a system of
                                               4


elected Provincial Councils and elected local authorities. The 13th Amendment to the
Constitution (1987) and the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 made constitutional and legal
provision for the establishment of elected Provincial Councils. The passage of the Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987 enshrined the role of local governance and associated local
development functions squarely within the unitary constitution.

2.10 Each Pradeshiya Sabha represents a number of villages spread across a large territorial
area. Within each village, several community based organizations have historically performed
various service delivery functions (rural development societies, farmer organizations, youth
organizations, religious societies etc.). Established prior to the above mentioned acts, these
societies remain linked to and registered through the appointed Division and District
Secretaries - rather than the elected representatives - and as such were designed to support the
delivery of centrally supplied services. Their organizational make-up lacks meaningful
representation of women and the poorest and their functions are limited to important, but a
limited number of services (infrastructure and irrigation services). Neither the government nor
the societies are held accountable for the quality of services delivered. The newly elected local
government also lacked female participation: by 2004, women occupied less than two percent
of all local government positions.

2.11 Prior to the project design, Sri Lanka had experienced reasonable economic growth of
around 5 percent, in spite of the prolonged civil conflict and several external shocks. But by
2002, 25 percent of the population was estimated to be living under the national poverty line
and rural areas – home to 90 percent of the then poor – were being left behind. Important
budget categories such as physical and social infrastructure were crowded out by debt
payments linked to heavy domestic deficit financing to cover the costs of the war (public debt
climbed to 100 percent of GDP in 2001).

2.12 The Gemi Diriya objective sought to bridge this gap by helping to develop and
empower local organizations that could represent the needs of the poor to service delivery
providers, oversee the quality of these services and through savings and investment, attract and
sustain access to local investment.

2.13 The objective was rooted in an understanding of the positive outcomes that had been
achieved under previous participatory development schemes. With a 92 percent literacy rate
and consistent investment in human health, the Sri Lankan village had historically provided a
strong springboard to launch self-help groups. The most notable example is the Gal Oya
Irrigation Development Scheme supported by donors other than the World Bank during
decades prior that helped to set the stage for the expansion and adaptation of the model (See
Box 2.1).
                                                  5




 Box 2.1: Learning from Gal Oya
 In 1980, Sri Lanka’s Gal Oya irrigation scheme was reported to be ‘one of the most difficult and
 poorly managed in the country: the main reservoir was only one quarter full, there were crop
 failures, and worsened water conflicts were anticipated (Uphoff, 1996). Visiting scholars and
 water management experts from Cornell, USAID, and Colombo’s Agrarian Research and
 Training Institute determined that the system was suffering just as much from social deterioration
 as it was from physical deterioration. Water allocation suffered from a lack of transparency and
 grievances lodged about water shortages were unresolved. In most areas around the scheme, social
 organizations previously established to support local water management were non-functioning.
 Their proposed solution lied in supporting the formation of cooperative farmer organizations, that
 through a self-help scheme, could reinvigorate the channels downstream while influencing the
 mindset of engineers and officers within Sri Lanka’s agrarian and irrigation departments who
 generally thought negatively about the potential and capacity of the farming communities. A
 chicken and egg game, the goal was to convince these two mistrusting parties to get along.

 Within weeks of implementing the new approach, “90 percent of farmers in a pilot area of over
 2,000 hectares were voluntarily undertaking a program which they helped to develop themselves.
 They cleared channels, some of which had not been cleared for 15 to 20 years, rotated water
 deliveries so that tail enders would get a fair share, and saved water when possible to donate to
 farmers downstream, which included many Sinhalese to Tami exchange” (Uphoff 1996). Fifteen
 years later, a case study on farmer organizations in Gal Oya published in World Development
 showed how investment in social capital could dramatically increase the efficiency and
 productivity of rice farming systems in Sri Lanka

 Source: The box title and content are taken from the book of the same name, “Learning from Gal Oya:
 Possibilities for Participatory Development and Post-Newtonian Social Science Norman Uphoff Ithaca:
 Cornell University Press, 1992.




2.14 The participatory implementation of the Gal Oya Irrigation Scheme located in south-
eastern Sri Lanka demonstrated that sustained investment in human capital could yield high
rates of economic return while contributing to the promotion of the peace dividend. Endowed
with the right combination of roles, rules, norms and values that supported mutually beneficial
collective action, farmers achieved a better-than-average harvest during the 1997 dry season
by engaging in efficient and equitable water distribution. Ethnic cooperation was also
demonstrated by upstream Sinhalese farmers sharing water with downstream Tamil farmers.
The Gemi Diriya project set out to achieve the same effect: endowed with the right combination
of roles, rules, norms and values that, it bet that village organizations could engage in mutually
beneficial collective action to help the poor move out of poverty.

2.15   The PPAR rates the Relevance of Objective as High.
                                                6


Relevance of Project Design
2.16 Relevance of Design to the objective is assessed against four dimensions: (1) the project
assumptions; (2) project feasibility; (3) value added, or additionality; and (4) capacity for
learning and course-correction. Based on the below assessment, this review finds that the
project design was Substantially Relevant in relation to its efforts to identify and target the
poor, but that the design demonstrated some weaknesses linked to an under-estimation of
project risks within a highly changeable political context.

Testing Project Assumptions

2.17 The Gemi Diriya project was designed as a 12 year, three phase poverty reduction
program that would test initial project assumptions in 1,034 villages in the south of Sri Lanka
during the first five year phase. Conditions were then set, that if satisfied, would permit the
program to spread horizontally (geographically) and vertically in a subsequent second and third
phase. By year twelve, the program envisioned covering a total of 4-5,000 village level
communities in about 2,000 Gram Niladhari Divisions (the local administrative unit in Sri
Lanka). To achieve this, the project estimated it would need to secure US$181 million in IDA
finance over the twelve year period.

2.18 As discussed in the previous section, the Gemi Diriya program was anchored in a belief
that the self-help group model offered vast untapped potential-- a lesson that had spread
throughout South Asia by the time of project design. But the specific design of the Gemi Diriya
model (village organizations, savings and credit schemes, and an autonomous implementing
structure) was tested in a socially constructed, organized resettlement scheme and in areas
where participatory development was palatable. This review finds that the risks associated with
expanding this grassroots initiative outside of the boundaries of the majority Sinhalese
inhabited south were under-evaluated at the time of project design and during implementation.
A project that introduced a paradigm shift in the way people identified and selected their village
leadership, the project could have also benefitted from a more proactive engagement strategy
with existing local appointed and elected leaders.

2.19 Designed during a very reform minded period of recent Sri Lankan history, the project
also established and financed a semi-autonomous Foundation - the Gemi Diriya Foundation -
that by project end was employing roughly 600 staff. The project sought to support a
facilitation hub that attracted youth, competitively hired, and that supported skills that were
transferable after the program end. Set up as a company, the project hoped that the Foundation
could implement its activities unfettered from political wrangling – the kind that had
increasingly undermined the effectiveness of the country’s national welfare program, or
Samurdhi (see below).

2.20 This design choice proved to be contentious with typical concerns expressed by
Government employees about the wages and per diems paid to Foundation staff through the
soft loan (IDA financing) that had been taken by the Government. As effective as the
Foundation was, the Government viewed the program as a Cadillac version of the type of
service delivery that was desirable but ultimately unaffordable if the program was to scale
nationally. The Foundation arrangement deviated from the Gal Oya model (Phase 2m 1978 to
                                               7


1986) that did not rely on a special Foundation but on a semi-autonomous agency under the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Agrarian Research and Training Institute, as well as on
“champions” and “converts” among the engineers in the Irrigation Department, on converted
Government Agents (local government), and most importantly, on the farmers themselves.
This “quadrangle” was key to the success of Gal Oya II.

Feasibility of Making an Attributable Contribution to Poverty Reduction/Shared
Prosperity

2.21 Given that the loan was the first phase of a programmatic approach in support of
poverty reduction in Sri Lanka, this assessment reviewed the manner by which the World Bank
and the Government of Sri Lanka identified and selected poor beneficiaries for inclusion in the
project. For the Gemi Diriya Phase I project, poverty was targeted at the District and Village
Level in Sri Lanka. Designed during a period of active conflict in Sri Lanka, the project
identified and selected districts with the highest poverty headcount outside of the then conflict
affected North and Eastern provinces. It used an Unmet Basic Needs Index to determine village
selection based on several criteria such as access to drinking water, sanitation, land, and
participation in the Samurdhi (welfare) program. Additional criteria included presence of
development programs in communities within the past three years. While village entry into the
program was dependent on village consent (80 percent of all households in a village had to
have signed a petition requesting entry), household participation was voluntary. A Wealth
Rank index was then developed to determine the relative level of wealth among participating
households.

2.22 Focus Groups conducted by IEG confirmed that consenting villages participated in a
participatory poverty mapping process which produced a color-coded scheme of relative
household wealth. Villagers reported that they preferred this ranking method to other less
transparent methods (e.g. door-to-door surveys), the latter of which are often conducted by
external consultants who lack a nuanced understanding of the ways that poverty presents itself
and varies from village to village in the southern Sri Lankan context.

2.23 Were the extremely poor included in Gemi Diriya? There is insufficient data available
to determine the extent to which the extremely poor were reached by the Gemi-Diriya Program.
Project design aimed for 100 percent inclusion of all village members in the program –but IEG
found that the poorest households made very considered choices with regard to the perceived
benefits and costs of joining the program. While the ratio of village welfare participants was
one criterion used to determine village selection, IEG learned through focus groups and
interviews that extremely poor villagers did not join the program in some cases for fear of
losing their welfare—or Samurdhi – benefits.

2.24 The project was nonetheless conscientious about the need to differentiate its toolkit to
attract the poorest of the poor. As such, it introduced a “One Time Grant” scheme which was
designed to softly introduce the poorest households to the village savings and credit model.
The Maha Sabhas helped the project to identify 11,918 households that, according to each
village, represented the poorest of the poor. Of this total number of households, 10,648
received a one-time grant, which were used for consumption purchases. While the grant in and
of itself did not yield impacts, the grants were designed to bring the poorest of the poor into
                                                8


the Village Organization Dialogue and to offer them the opportunity to participate in the
savings and credit pools. According to the end line assessment, 42 percent of households that
received a one-time grant went on to participate in the village savings and credit organizations,
although no data is available about the impacts of this group’s investments.

The Value Added of the Program as Compared to other Poverty Reduction Programs in
Sri Lanka

2.25 Gemi Diriya is not the first poverty reduction program to have been implemented in Sri
Lanka. Rather, it builds on decades of investment, implemented through various government
interventions that have demonstrated mixed success in reaching the rural poor in Sri Lanka.
This review assesses the relevance of the design of the Gemi Diriya project against two other
poverty reduction programs in Sri Lanka – the Janasaviya and the Samurdhi Welfare Program
(Figure 2.1). It finds that with regard to beneficiary targeting, the Gemi Diriya poverty mapping
approach is significantly more efficient – and therefore more relevant – than the comparator
programs. The World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies provide some context: with regard
to Samurdhi, the 2003 CAS notes with concern that “social protection programs have become
highly politicized and Samurdhi [was then] available to 60 percent of the population (p. 3). By
2013, the present CAS reflects gains made in pairing down the recipient roster, but in spite of
a decade of donor assisted efforts to support expenditure reform, some 47 percent of all
households were reported to still be receiving benefits from the Samurdhi program. The
Janasaviya program – established in 1989 and financed partially with IDA funds –selected its
beneficiaries on the basis of reported income (less than Rs 2500 a month in 1977), however
targeting in this program was also unduly influenced.

2.26 All three programs made efforts to provide access to savings and credit with Gemi
Diriya modeling aspects of the earlier Janasaviya program but on a more informal, village
group savings and lending basis. Efforts made by Samurdhi to model aspects of the earlier
system have lacked relevance since the program design lacks accountability amongst program
officers and between the officers and members of the community. The efforts by the Janasaviya
program to link the rural poor and youth to formal financial services were highly relevant but
not able to extend these services to the poorest of the poor since the banking model was
incapable of reaching remote rural poor areas. The Gemi Diriya model was relevant in so far
as it sought to promote a savings and credit culture in remote rural poor villages – in areas that
had otherwise been unbanked. But the informal group savings and lending model lacked a
transition strategy to promote access to formal services over time. Other relevant aspects of the
Gemi Diriya program include the introduction of financial and social auditing committees that
promote fund award and management transparency and a sense of pride in creating a
sustainable system of borrowing, investment and repayment at the village level.
                                                    9


Figure 2.1: Characteristics of Sri Lanka’s Poverty Reduction Programs
Poverty       Description                      Beneficiary/Poverty      Features of the Group Savings and
Program                                        Targeting                Credit Models

Janasaviya    Adopted in 1977 alongside        Beneficiaries were       Provision of credit at commercial rates to
(1989)        economic reforms to              selected on basis of     the poor and unemployed youth to start
              protect vulnerable groups        income (< than Rs        micro enterprises. Aimed to create a
              from negative impacts of         2500 per month)          credit culture based on commercial
              transition. Provided a           however targeting        principles. Financed wage payments
              financial package to the         of recipients has        through infrastructure works identified by
              poor to encourage                been an issue owing      beneficiaries which the community
              investment and productive        to undue influence       maintained. Included a Human Resource
              self-employment with             in the selection of      and Institutional Development
              nutrition support. The           beneficiaries.           component to train Human Resource
              program was supported by                                  Development Workers and a social
              an IDA project.                                           mobilization and skills training program.
Samurdhi      Derived from a local term        Samurdhi used a          Savings Groups of 5 persons each lent at
              meaning “prosperity”,            similar income           5%. Reduced dependence on predatory
(1994)        Samurdhi is a national           based selection          credit but unsustainable due to: (1) lack
              welfare program launched         criteria to Janasaviya   of affinity in group formation; (2)
              in 1994 to reduce poverty        (<than Rs 1500)          beneficiaries too poor to save inter-
              and unemployment.                however, poor            seasonally; (3) Savings goals not
                                               targeting of             communicated well by program. Credit
                                               beneficiaries has        made available through state banks for
                                               been a problem,          enterprise development/ expansion (Rs
                                               with some 60% of         2,500 – 100,000) at 10% per annum.
                                               HH recorded              Upside is access to credit, downside is
                                               participating in 2003    lack of transparency, lack of financial
                                               and 47% of all HH        skills (Officer decides who gets credit,
                                               still participating in   manages funds, supervises repayment).
                                               2013.                    Reported allegations of embezzlement
                                                                        and of officers participating without
                                                                        paying interest, causing some members
                                                                        not to save.
Gemi Diriya   A World Bank and GoSL            Recipients selected      Group savings and credit model consisted
Program       financed project piloted         through need based       of small groups that comprised a larger
              through the Village Self-Help    criteria, allowing       group – the VSCO. The small groups were
              Learning Initiative (VISLI) in   little room for          formed based on geography – three to five
              1999 and implemented over        interference since       individuals were formed between
              two consecutive phases           villagers determined     neighbors. After the small groups proved
              (2004-2014) to pilot and test    the village level        solvency they were eligible to take larger
              the effects of pro-poor          wealth index,            loans (as individuals) from the VSCO. One
              participatory rural              including categories     Time Grants for the Poorest of the Poor
              development as a means to        of the poor (poor        were well targeted their value as
              reduce poverty, provide          versus poorest of        compared        other    existing   welfare
              access to savings and credit,    the poor). Recipients    programs is unclear.
              and to finance community         were selected by the
              infrastructure works as          villagers based on
              identified by participating      the ‘most deserving’
              villages. Focuses on a           criteria’ ensured
              bottom-up approach that          that the neediest
              empowers communities to          were selected.
              engage in transparent and
              accountable local
              development activities.
                                                    10


2.27 However Gemi Diriya’s management information system was not designed to share
knowledge horizontally - across villages - during the first phase. The MIS was mainly
unidirectional: data collected at the village level was fed upwards through a system of
community resource
persons,      divisional
                         Box 2.2: When Innovation Requires Explanation: The Failure of the
and district level
                         Innovation Seed Fund
facilitators         –to
Foundation staff at the The Innovation Seed Fund was designed as a US$1.3 million pilot intervention within the Gemi
national level. The Diriya project to promote innovative ideas that could benefit from experimentation before
                         scaling up, including new agricultural processing techniques, value addition items, and
program acted as an information technology. Of the US$1.3 million allocated for this intervention, only US$50,000
incubator for new was disbursed. The effort failed owing to a lack of an understanding of what was expected, what
ideas which at least in was meant by “innovation”, and how to reward it. An interview with Gemi Diriya Phase I staff
the case of the illustrates the confusion: “Was the Bank expecting an Archimedes type innovation, or something
Innovation Seed Fund that the average rural community could conceive and implement? This was never clear.” The
                         concept was foreign to local staff – so much that they suggested that World Bank staff “draw up
appear       to    have lists of potential areas for innovation” – which of course defeats the purpose….
required           more
grounding in the Source: ICR and IEG Interviews with First Phase GD Foundation Staff
cultural context (Box
2.2).



3. Monitoring and Evaluation
M&E Design and Implementation
3.1     Gemi Diriya developed several different monitoring and reporting tools to evaluate its
achievements. Progress reporting was supported by a log-frame, monitoring and evaluation
staff in the national Gemi-Diriya foundation, and a management information system that
evolved over the life of the project. A community driven development project, several aspects
of the monitoring and reporting functions of the project were decentralized, participatory and
innovative and included tools designed to measure and track social accountability (such as
Social Audits and Village Scorecards that were linked to a Village Monitoring Matrix). Social
audit committees were instituted to conduct input and expenditure tracking as a means to assess
behavior of selected village leaders, project staff, and service providers.

3.2     Gemi Diriya developed several different monitoring and reporting tools to evaluate its
achievements. Progress reporting was supported by a log-frame, monitoring and evaluation
staff in the national Gemi-Diriya foundation, and a management information system that
evolved over the life of the project. As is typical for community driven development projects,
several aspects of the monitoring and reporting functions of the project were decentralized,
participatory and innovative, including the incorporation of tools designed to measure and
track social accountability (such as Social Audits and Village Scorecards that were linked to a
Village Monitoring Matrix). Social audit committees were instituted to conduct input and
                                                         11


  expenditure tracking as a means to assess behavior of selected village leaders, project staff,
  and service providers.

                                                         3.3 The project also developed a set of
Box 3.1: Readiness Criteria for Phase II                 Triggers capable of contributing to a
                                                         measurement of some of the more nuanced
At least 60% of VOs established in first two years       aspects of project readiness, such as the role of
At least 30% of women participate in decision            women in decision-making, community
making by holding management positions in the first
two years                                                ownership of the infrastructure investments,
At least 50% of community members have                   and participation of the poorest of the poor
contributed at least 20% toward capital cost of          (Box 3.1).
community infrastructure
At least 50% of members of project villages covered
                                                 3.4 IEG found that Gemi Diriya’s
during the first two years have benefited from   Management Information System supported the
interventions; and at least 60% of these beneficiaries
belong to the poorest of the poor HH.            effective collection, tracking and reporting of
                                                 outputs at the village level that were, in turn,
At least 25% of Divisions covered in the first two
                                                 vertically reported and captured by the project’s
years have established participatory sub-committees
at the local government level with 30% elected   results reporting system. But the Management
representatives and 70% representatives of       Information System was not equipped to
community organizations
                                                 integrate and consider data captured outside of
Source: Gemi Diriya Project Appraisal            the standard reporting frame (e.g. social audits;
                                                 village scorecards, triggers), thus limiting
                                                 reporting to a handful of outputs that were
  inadequate to measure the project’s first phase objective. Key performance indicators
  associated with the project’s first phase measured such outputs as “the number of” or the
  “percentage of” organizations and subprojects that were established and implemented rather
  than their level of accountability, capacity to self-govern, or sustain the village level
  investments. Qualitative measures, in addition to quantitative measures, were needed to assess
  the behavioral change that the program was designed to incentivize. Some of the measures
  could have been derived from the village monitoring tools, but these indices were not
  integrated into the MIS.

  3.5      IEG also found that the absence of agreed upon baselines and the use of inconsistent
  indicators interfered with efforts to assess or validate the project’s overarching poverty
  reduction goals. The project used the US$1.00 a day income metric at appraisal to estimate
  that 50 percent of the targeted population lived below the poverty line – and set a first phase
  goal of reducing poverty (by increasing incomes) by 10 percent. The project’s Mid-Term
  Review used a different metric – the National Poverty Line – which was then US$1.42 a day
  (or RS 1,423 using the project conversion rates of US$1 = 100). Published two years after
  appraisal, the Mid Term Review re-estimated poverty in the project areas to be as high as 70
  percent. The methods used by the Mid-Term Review to report incomes lacked methodological
  rigor. It used a modified version of a full income and expenditure survey and incomes were
  based on self-reporting. Mid-Term reporting was also unaligned with the indicators included
  in the results framework. Whereas the project set out to measure the number of households that
  came out of poverty – or were earning more than US$1.00 a day – the Mid-Term Review was
  designed to measure the number of households that increased their income compared to control
  areas. The MTR reports that a larger percentage of the population in the project areas reported
                                               12


increased incomes as compared to control areas, but does not measure their graduation out of
poverty using either metric.

M&E Implementation

3.6     The project’s monitoring and evaluation system evolved as project implementation
progressed -- from a hand tabulated, paper and spreadsheet system to a web-based,
management information system (MIS). Limited staff capacity to manage and maintain the
large volumes of paper based data was the main reason given for the transition. The inputting
of data was a large task which tended initially to overshadow the output of data and its analysis,
a common problem in new M&E systems. At the time of the ICR mission, staff and trained
community youth were inputting the very substantial amount of information on hand, but had
not yet produced any specific outputs from the MIS. The monitoring and learning system and
MIS were to be further fine-tuned and automated under Phase II.

3.7     Project level activities were monitored and tracked through a Village Monitoring
Matrix and each village organization engaged in their own results reporting. The project
established a system to promote inter-village learning whereby a jurisdictional hub, comprised
of several village organizations, was established to periodically support results sharing and
grievance resolution. As recognized by the ICR and as further explicated above, while there
was considerable emphasis during Phase 1 on monitoring quantitative indicators and tracking
sub-project implementation, the monitoring of livelihoods, qualitative factors and the
identification of good practices proved more difficult.

M&E Utilization

3.8     The use of a decentralized, participatory monitoring system – although fragmented –
allowed for full village coverage, including those villages that were remote and isolated. The
relationships developed between the community professionals and members of the village
organizations allowed the professionals to “probe in a transparent and trustworthy manner”
and to supply timely data to World Bank supervision missions. Well-represented gatherings of
community members and staff were used to design manuals, change procedures and review
project performance. There is no evidence that the suite of community monitoring tools
supported by the project – including the Village Scorecards and the Social audits -- were used
to improve individual village performance. This could have included providing standard but
differentiated guidance for project implementation across the four graded village levels (A-D).

3.9   Overall Monitoring and Evaluation Quality is rated Modest, with evidence on
outcomes mainly derived from the external Mid-Term Review and End line assessment
commissioned by the project.
                                                13


4. Efficacy
The Overall Project Objective was to target poor communities in the Uva and Southern
provinces and improve their livelihood and quality of life by enabling them to build
accountable and self-governing local institutions and to manage sustainable investments.

This will be discussed below as per sub-objective, namely (i) improve livelihood and quality
of life; (ii) build accountable and self-governing local institutions; and (iii) manage sustainable
investments.

POVERTY TARGETING

4.1     For the Gemi Diriya Phase I project, poverty was targeted at the District and Village
Level. Designed during a period of active conflict in Sri Lanka, the project identified and
selected districts with the highest poverty headcount outside of the then conflict affected North
and Eastern provinces. It used an Unmet Basic Needs Index to determine village selection
based on several criteria such as access to drinking water, sanitation, land, and participation in
the Samurdhi (welfare) program. Additional criteria included presence of development
programs in communities within the past three years.

4.2     While village entry into the program was dependent on village consent (80 percent of
all households in a village had to have signed a petition requesting entry), household
participation was voluntary. A Poverty Mapping exercise and a Wealth Rank index was then
developed to determine the relative level of wealth among participating households. Focus
Groups conducted by IEG confirmed that consenting villages participated in a participatory
poverty mapping process which produced a color-coded scheme of relative household wealth.
Villagers reported that they preferred this ranking method to other less transparent methods
(e.g. door-to-door surveys), the latter of which are often conducted by external consultants who
lack a nuanced understanding of the ways that poverty presents itself and varies from village
to village in the southern Sri Lankan context.

4.3    According to the self-reported household wealth rankings reported by the end-line
impact assessment, 67 percent of the project beneficiaries were classified as poor – and six
percent of this group was classified as poorest of the poor.

4.4     IEG’s 2014 Household Survey loosely validated this claim by asking households to
recall their wealth rank under the project and by applying basic household metrics to assess
their current state. Focus Groups carried out in twelve of the fifty villages suggest that the
poorest of the poor may have been reticent to join the program for fear of losing their Samurdhi
(welfare) benefits. IEG was unable to ascertain whether this fear was justified.

OBJECTIVE: LIVELIHOOD IMPROVEMENT AND QUALITY OF LIFE

4.5     The project provided two main vehicles through which project funding was expected
to contribute to enhanced quality of life: the Village Development Fund for Community
Infrastructure and the Village Savings and Credit Organizations (VSCOs).
                                                 14


4.6     The ICR reports that by project completion, 1,415 community infrastructure projects
had been implemented in the 1,034 Gemi Diriya villages. Beneficiaries contributed 30 percent
of the costs, including 10 percent in cash. The end line assessment (2010) reported, that as
compared to the project target of 105,000 households (or 70 percent of the 150,000 households
included in the program), 121,000 households or 81 percent of targeted of project households
benefited from access to new or enhanced infrastructure.

4.7      IEG sought to investigate the link between chosen assets and quality of life by asking
villagers included in the 500 Household Survey to identify and describe the assets chosen by
their village and to report on how the assets affected their quality of life (social and productive).
IEG interviewed both participating and non-participating households to understand the
perceived welfare benefits of the community infrastructure (inter-village roads, community
buildings, and water supply etc). IEG found that 77 percent of participating households
reported that their quality of life had improved (due to the asset) as compared to 42.5 percent
of households that did not participate in project activities– a finding that is statistically
significant at the 1 percent level.

4.8     Rural Road construction or repair was conducted in 40 percent of the villages randomly
sampled by IEG. In these villages, 75 percent of villagers surveyed attested that support for
road construction had improved their quality of life. The most frequent reasons cited were: (1)
improved access between villages and to the main town, (2) improved access to their
cultivation lands (tea and paddy); (3) improved access to markets and middlemen (tea leaves),
and to a lesser extent (4) improved access to schools and health services. For example,
increased village interconnectivity was valued for its ability to bridge the distance between
family and friends. Increased interconnectivity was also valued for its ability to increase access
to local government and government services

4.9     Multi-Purpose Buildings and Community Buildings A third of all villages surveyed
had selected, in addition to other assets, a multi-purpose or community building. A higher
percentage of respondents linked the construction of a multi-purpose building in their village
with an improved quality of life rather than the construction of a community building. Multi-
purpose buildings were reported to have housed the Gemi Diriya supported Village Savings
and Credit Offices and as such, were associated with eased access to much needed finance.
Survey findings also revealed that respondents appreciated eased access to government
services, since in many cases the MPB provided office space for the Gram Nildhari. MPBs
were also reported to have been used to house GD meetings, other village meetings, religious
activities, classes and training, and for providing mobile medical services. Community
Buildings, on the other hand, were single room additions made to existing buildings that were
mainly used to conduct village meetings.

4.10 Access to Water The subproject that most universally solicited positive responses were
the water projects (pumped water, water tanks, and in fewer cases, wells). In the IEG
Household Survey, 90 percent of all respondents that had received a water related asset
indicated that the intervention had improved their quality of life. Respondents reported
receiving access to clean drinking water, including several respondents that had not had access
to safe water before. Most respondents also indicated that the pumped water provided time
savings and that it was used additionally for domestic activities -- including for productive uses
                                                             15


-- such as home gardening and brick making. The IEG survey team spoke with some
respondents that indicated that they were suffering from kidney and gastrointestinal diseases.
The respondents reported improved health as a result of the clean water provided by the project.
The remaining 10 percent of respondents who expressed dissatisfaction with the supported
water projects pointed to (1) poor water quality and (2) insufficient supply, especially during
the dry season.

4.11 Interviews with Gemi Diriya Foundation staff and village focus groups discussions
revealed that a key determinant of subproject success was the presence of a collective-action
dilemma or an unmet commonly felt need (e.g. access to drinking water) in areas where the
village had not been able to gain access to government finance for the activities. Analysis
conducted at project appraisal showed that public expenditures were mainly contributing to
agricultural and transport related investments whereas water supply, for example, was critically
needed but under-funded. IEG’s Focus Group discussions lend support to this finding.
According to discussants, subproject success was often associated with gaining access to
finance for a mutually felt development challenge. Less successful subprojects, on the other
hand, were associated with the selection of a subproject from a menu of choices that did not
reflect commonly felt needs (See Box 4.1).

 Box 4.1: Working Together to Bring Clean Water to Dangamuwe Village
 Villages in Badulla District in Sri Lanka’s Uva Province suffer from problems of accessibility and non-connectivity in part
 owing to its hilly terrain, low and long dry spells and an absence of an internal road network. Social infrastructure, at
 the time of project appraisal, was wholly unsatisfactory. Focus Group Discussions held in the Village of Dangamuwe
 revealed that the Gemi Diriya project provided the community with a means to efficiently deliver a much need public
 asset to villagers in extreme need. Access to finance for public infrastructure enabled the Village Organization of
 Dangamuwe to identify and respond to the needs of the isolated rural poor in their village. Aware that several isolated
 households within the village were accessing drinking water from a nearby river, the village voted for and helped to
 install a pumped water system. Eight of the ten randomly sampled households in the village included in IEG’s
 Household Survey indicated that the intervention had improved their quality of life, by saving time and energy but also
 owing to the use of the water for other productive purposes (such as a home garden).
 Other key determinants of project success, as borne out by the Focus Group Discussions, include technical competence
 and skilled leadership. Cognizant that access to water was one of the main challenges faced by the village, villagers
 opted to put the Head of the Village Water Society on the Gemi Diriya Board. This was a practical choice owing to the
 understanding that the Board member had access to contractors and well-priced goods. Separate focus groups with
 the Board of Directors and Women Groups confirmed the relevance of the need and the relevance of the means by
 which the project empowered the community to act. Lastly, , Focus Group discussion in the village pointed to the
 critical component of ownership and support from the elected Pradeshiya Sabha, appointed Grama Nilhadari, elders
 and the village priest.
 Source: IEG 2014 Household Survey, Focus Group Discussions in Dangamuwe Village




4.12 The second funding vehicle supported by the project provided seed finding for village
savings and credit organizations. As compared to its target of 400 such organizations, the
project helped to develop 1,034 organizations in each of the villages supported. According to
the ICR, 96,853 or 65 percent of the 150,000 participating households accessed loans from the
VSCOs. And women especially benefitted. The ICR reported that 71 percent of VSCO
membership was comprised of women that their leadership included women, and for these
reasons, loans were mainly taken by women. Of the twelve VSCOs visited as part of the Focus
                                                            16


Group Discussion, all but one was chaired by a female representative. Of the 500 individuals
interviewed by IEG, 208 indicated that they had taken a loan from the VSCO, of which 141 or
68 percent were female.

4.13 In Focus Group Discussion convened with women, IEG learned that there was a
tendency for women to take loans out either for the benefit of the household or for her husband
however indicating that more research is needed on household level decision making with
regard to the perceived and actual benefits of women’s participation in VSCOs (or similar rural
based credit and savings models).

4.14 The end line assessment found that poor households that took a loan from the village
savings and credit organization experienced, on average, an incremental increase of 41 percent
as compared to the incremental increase in incomes observed in control villages.1 The
assessment also found that the complementarity of subprojects and VSCO loans - especially
increased access to roads and water – was found to contribute to this effect. The IEG Household
Survey confirmed the substantial level of participation in the Village Savings and Credit
Organizations as reported by the ICR. Sixty percent of all households surveyed by IEG
reported having accessed a VSCO for savings and loans.

4.15 According to the End line assessment, 78 percent of households that took a loan used
the loan finance to initiate or expand an agricultural income generating activity, with the
remaining investing in non-farm income generating activities. IEG’s Household Survey found
that only half of the loans were taken for productive purposes however, with the other half
borrowed to finance domestic expenses or to refinance debt. The half that financed productive
investments mainly did so in the agricultural sector. Investments supported purchases of inputs
most often for paddy cultivation, maize, tea and bananas. Only five percent of this group
reported being able to afford diversification or expansion into commercial crops (cinnamon,
cashews, sugarcane). Most VSCO loans ranged from RS 5,000 to 50,000 (US$40 to US$400)
with variation between villages. Investments in non-farm activities included the expansion of
inventory for grocery stores, the start-up or expansion of a brick-making enterprise (made
possible because of expanded water supply), and sewing operations. While few households
started a new business, the entrepreneurial spirit observed in Sri Lanka is noteworthy, with
households engaging in several types of new business activities including the production of
curry paste (by purchasing grinding mills), sweet and flower shops, toys and trinket production
for tourists, beauty centers and ice cream parlors.

4.16 Focus Group Discussions were very useful in deriving perceptions about the relative
features and utility of the VSCOs. Focus Group discussants most often cited distance and time
as barriers to accessing rural finance – and that these barriers were addressed by placing the
VSCOs in the village center. A second constraint cited was entry. Compared to traditional
financial institutions, villagers reported that it was easier to access VSCO funds. The VSCO
allowed villagers – on a small group basis organized by geographic proximity – to start small
(with small loans and small membership fees) and then to graduate to larger loans based on a

1
  The average income for poor households that took loans in Batches 0 and 1 of the project area increased from RS 2,727 at
mid-term to RS4802 at the time of the endline assessment. The average income of poor households in control villages
increased from Rs2,926 to RS3949.
                                                       17


proof of repayment. This model, unlike traditional financing institutions, did not require
collateral and had a less formal and more easily accessed application process. Anecdotally,
focus group participants reported that participation in the VSCOs led to enhanced financial
literacy, confidence with regard to the use of money, and greater unity owing to the
transparency of the process about who received funds and their intended purposes. In eleven
of the twelve Focus Group villages visited, information was publicly available about the VSCO
current account balances, outstanding loans and other financial information. – this information
was often displayed on the wall of the Multi-Purpose Building housing the VSCO.

SUB-OBJECTIVE: ACCOUNTABLE AND SELF-GOVERNING VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS

4.17 The project’s sub-objective of enabling these communities to build accountable and
self-governing local institutions was Substantially Achieved. The project surpassed every
quantitative target that it set out to achieve at appraisal (Table 5.1). It supported the
establishment of 1,034 village organizations compared to a target of 650 village organizations.
One hundred percent of the 1.034 village organizations set up a Village and Savings Credit
Organization (as compared to the 400 planned). An end line assessment validated the
establishment of these organizations in 2010.

 Table 4.1 The Project Exceeded its Quantitative Targets
               INDICATOR                        TARGET                             REPORTED RESULTS
   % of VO formally registered,        A 65 percent target, or 650      100 percent of the 1,034 village
   receiving funds, and effectively    of the 1000 Village              organizations had been registered, had
   implementing village priorities     Organizations whose              received funds, and at the time of project
                                       establishment were planned       close, were effectively implementing village
                                                                        priorities.
   % of sub-projects operated and      With a baseline of 0, a target   1,415 community infrastructure projects had
   maintained by VOs and ratified by   was set at 60 percent.           been implemented in the 1,034 Gemi Diriya
   Maha Sabha.                                                          villages

   % of VOs with viable savings and    40 percent of all Village        100 percent of the 1,034 Village
   credit organizations                organizations would              organizations established were reported to
                                       establish Village Savings and    have also established viable village savings
                                       Credit Organizations             and credit organizations

   % of VOs working in partnership     A target of 30 percent was       Reported Actual is 43% of 1.034 VOs formed
   with Private Sector Organization    set.                             have increased Private Sector investments.



4.18 The indicators utilized by the project were at the output level. They did not measure
outcomes that would have reflected attainment of the first phase objective--whether the
organizations established were accountable and self-governing and able to manage investments
that could be sustained over time.

4.19 An end line assessment (2010) commissioned by the project utilized several proxy
indicators that were better equipped to measure achievement at the outcome level, i.e., the
quality of the governance of the organizations supported by the project. Five years after project
close, IEG adopted and adapted several of these metrics and tools to assess the qualitative
outcomes of the project. As per the project logic, IEG utilized a household survey, focus
groups, and interviews to better understand perceptions about the past and present strength of
                                                           18


the village organizations by assessing their composition, membership, attendance, decision-
making processes, investments and links to the overall programmatic goal of enhancing
villagers’ quality of life.

Social Inclusion and Social Accountability: Metrics of Good Governance

4.20     The end line assessment posited that accountable organizations would promote social
                                                               inclusion, by facilitating wide-
                                                               scale participation in decision-
  Figure 4.1: Tracking Perceptions about Budget                making and priority setting, and
  Transparency (2010, 2014)                                    ensuring that project benefits
                                                               were distributed equally. The
      40
  Percentage of Respondents




                                                               ICR indicated that a core feature
      35
                                                               of the Gemi Diriya model was
      30
                                                               the inclusive involvement and
      25
                                                               ownership by the whole village
      20                                                       in decision-making, especially
      15                                                       the poor and disadvantaged
      10                                                       groups. 2    The     end     line
       5                                                       assessment did not measure the
       0                                                       total level of household
           Strongly  Agree    Slightly    Slightly  Completely
            Agree              Agree      Disagree   Disagree  participation in the village
                    2010 (n=1040)      2014 (n=500)            organizations – since it only
                                                               visited households in Gemi
                                                               Diriya villages that participated
in the Gemi Diriya program. However, the IEG Household Survey included a question
intended to measure household participation in village organizations. The results indicated that
the Gemi Dirya program had achieved a high level of total village participation. Based on self-
reporting at the household level, IEG estimates that, on average, 70 percent of the targeted
village population participated in Village Organization activities (Figure 4.1).

4.21 Gemi Diriya was designed to promote social accountability. Village Organizations
received a Village Development Fund intended to support investments in village infrastructure.
The Village Development Fund was also designed to provide seed money to establish a Village
Savings and Credit Organization. The Village Development and VSCO funds were governed
by a set of rules, regulations and systems developed to ensure transparency and accountability.
Social Audit sub-committees were established and trained to conduct input and expenditure
tracking, and through a report card system, to report performance within and between Village
Organizations, community and service providers, and between the Foundation and the
communities. The project actively promoted transparency by openly displaying all financial
and physical information in accessible format on the walls of the Village Savings and Credit
Organization Buildings.




2 During the layer part of the project cycle, the Gemi Diriya first phase project made progressive efforts to include
marginalized communities, especially disadvantaged ethnic minority communities in the estates.
                                                 19


4.22 The end line assessment found that, at the time of project close, 93 percent of the Gemi
Dirya village households surveyed agreed (with varying levels of confidence) with the
statement that: “People are informed about how development funds are spent on village
development.” Less than 1 percent of this population, at the time of project close completely
disagreed with this statement. In 2014, IEG revisited 50 of the 74 villages surveyed by the End
line assessment. Based on a smaller sample size, but supported by the random sampling method
that was utilized in three-quarters of the villages visited by the Independent Assessment, IEG
found that almost half (48 percent) of all households in Gemidirya villages surveyed in 2014
disagreed that people were [still] being informed about how development funds are spent on
development. Thirty-five percent of all households surveyed completely disagreed with this
statement reintroduced in the 2014 IEG Household Survey.

4.23 The decline in perception is, in part, intuitive. Villages visited are no longer receiving
Gemi Diriya project support and more than half of all respondents interviewed no longer
participate in activities. The level of disagreement – the 35 percent of households that
completely disagreed regarding budget transparency – may be reflective of raised expectations
or a certain level of disappointment in relation to the deterioration of the transparent budgeting
processes that had been adopted by village organizations during the project cycle.

4.24 IEG hypothesized that better performing villages - as graded by the Gemi Diriya
Foundation based on a set of project parameters - maintained some of the processes, for
example (negotiated deliberation, sharing of information, social audits - tracking and reporting
etc.). Or, conversely, better performing villages may express the highest level of disagreement
with the above statement owing to a high level of expectations. However, IEG was not able to
identify a relationship between these factors as shown in Table 4.2.

Table 4.2: Measuring Perceptions about Budget Transparency across Village Grades

  Level of agreement
  with the statement:
 "People are informed
 about how funds are                                                   Slightly      Completely
                        Strongly agree   Agree        Slightly agree
   spent on village                                                    disagree       Disagree
     development"

     Last VO Grade
          A                      16%         16%               20%            9%            40%
          B                      24%         22%               10%           19%            25%
          C                      15%         16%               16%           11%            43%
          D                      12%         15%               28%           15%            30%



SUB-OBJECTIVE: MANAGING SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS

4.25 The project’s sub-objective of enabling these communities to manage sustainable
investments was Highly Achieved. Five years after project close, IEG found that, on average,
roughly one out of every two village households in the former Gemi Diriya villages (46
percent) still participate in Gemi Diriya activities (mainly the Village Savings and Credit
Organization). The emphasis placed on transparency and accountability is one of the
                                                      20


explanatory factors as to why the revolving funds have been maintained. Information on
current funding levels, allocations and loan recovery was publicly available in eleven of the
twelve Focus Group villages visited by IEG.

4.26 IEG does not have access to nor was it able to collect reliable information on loan
repayment. The ICR indicated that at the time of project close, the loan recovery rate was 92
percent and that all 1,034 VSCOs were able to cover their own operational costs. At the time
of project close, the amount of portfolio at risk was greater than 10 percent for 60 days for over
30 percent of VSCOs which is considered below financial sector levels for sustainability. This
was in part due to the unique manner by which the Foundation staff managed risk, by
discerning “willful” non-payers from “unable” payers and managing each accordingly – the
former with support from law enforcement and the latter with a special Loan Security Fund,
which covers loans made to people who die and are unable to repay.

4.27 Focus group participants reported that participation in the VSCOs supported enhanced
financial literacy, confidence with regard to the use of money, and greater unity owing to the
transparency of the process about who received funds and their intended purposes. Since 71
percent of VSCO membership was comprised of women – including key leadership roles – the
aforementioned results are especially noteworthy given the otherwise low participation rates
of women in governance functions in Sri Lanka as compared to other countries in South Asia.
Of the twelve VSCOs visited as part of the Focus Group Discussion, all but one were chaired
by a female representative.

4.28 Based on self-reporting, IEG also found that the community infrastructure developed
under the project was, for the most part, being maintained. Mechanisms for cost recovery were
built into the water supply schemes. Similar mechanisms were not developed for roads
however. Generally, village organizations have been reluctant to invest their savings in
infrastructure repair, with some exceptions. In Sri Lanka, communities utilize a caretaker
system which provides a nominal payment for operations and maintenance of infrastructure
which varies across village organizations.



5. Efficiency
5.1    Considering a range of infrastructure types in different areas, and comparing them to
equivalent government contracted works, the project reports an average relative savings of 36
percent for local infrastructure works. Local government officials interviewed by the project
estimated that the quality of completed works was high and likely to give an approximately 25
percent longer lifespan than equivalent government works. This finding was confirmed
through the Focus Group Discussions convened by IEG. 3


3
  In Localizing Development, authors Rao and Mansuri asked whether local provision of infrastructure tends to
be better designed, constructed and maintained than centrally provided infrastructure (Mansuri and Rao, 2013).
Based on a comprehensive review of participatory projects, the authors find that, on balance, greater community
involvement tends to improve resource sustainability and the quality of infrastructure, with some caveats
                                                           21


5.2     Data compiled by the Infrastructure unit of the GemiDiriya Foundation and verified
by the end line assessment found that the unit costs of government constructed roads far
exceeded those of the project’s: the average unit cost for a government constructed concrete
road across Ratnapura, Badulla and Matara districts was 3295 rupees per km as compared to
1863 per km rupees for a Gemi Diriya procured concrete road, although this cost does not
include the 30 percent community contribution.

5.3     Social and public accountability mechanisms, including participatory budgeting, report
cards, social audits and expenditure tracking increased the efficiency of the procurement of
goods and services. These features also contributed to the resilience of the infrastructure.

5.4      The mechanisms for the operations and maintenance of project supported infrastructure
were less efficiently designed than other parts of the Gemi Dirya program however. By project
close, the long-term maintenance of inter-village infrastructure was still to be considered –
including the development of a maintenance fund and linkages with line agencies would
facilitate such maintenance activities and obtain necessary technical support to ensure the long
term sustainability. Through its focus group discussions, IEG found that in villages visited, a
portion of the profits from the VSCO loans were being used for operations and maintenance
of the village infrastructure projects. In addition, the community tradition of service (voluntary
works) was also used to support upkeep of project infrastructure asset. 4

5.5     Economic Rate of Return/Financial Rate of Return. The project did not conduct an
economic rate of return analysis at appraisal and IEG was not able to obtain the original
analysis conducted for the project to validate the methodology utilized to arrive at the ex-post
rate of 30.5 percent.

5.6      Overall, Efficiency is rated Modest.



6. Risk to Development Outcomes
6.1     Risk to Development Outcomes is rated Significant. The authorizing environment in Sri
Lanka for inclusive, participatory rural development has waned significantly since the Gemi
Diriya program was designed, owing to a retrenchment of centralized authority following the
breakdown of the cease fire agreement in 2005. This section discusses the observed trajectory
of the organizations and activities that were supported by the project and assesses the effects
that these changes are having on rural development outcomes over time.

6.2    The Gemi Dirya Phase One project was developed during a relatively peaceful period
of Sri Lanka’s history. It was developed just following the internationally mediated 2002

4
  The Sarvodaya Movement that began in the late 1950s as a work camp program advocates a concept of development based
on generosity, non-violence, and wisdom, a holistic progression toward coexistence. This process of development is
described as “awakening,” which enables the individual to overcome greed, hatred and ignorance. Its key strategy of
mobilizing mass support for development works, such as building roads, schools and community clinics, is “Shramadana’ or
gift of labor. The Sarvodaya Movement’s approach to development is evident in its most famous slogan: “we build the road,
and the road builds us.” See http://somahewa.wordpress.com/2010/09/14/sri-lanka%E2%80%99s-vibrant-civil-society/.
                                                22


ceasefire agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka and the LTTE and became effective
just weeks prior to the December 2004 Tsunami. Implementation, on the other hand, was
affected by two of the largest disasters –both natural and manmade – to ever have affected Sri
Lankan society. Hopes that the country could be unified in response to the devastating effects
of the 2005 Tsunami were dashed after hostilities resumed in 2006. And, as recognized by the
2006 CAS Progress Report, “the political ‘co-habitation’ [against which the strategy had been
cast] – which paired for the first time in Sri Lankan history a President and Prime Minister
from different parties – did not work. “ Within the increasingly unstable political environment-
that included elections at all levels, and the formation and failure of this coalition, -the Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS) was discarded, and the pace and depth of the reform efforts were
severely curtailed’ (CASPR 2006 p.1). In 2006, the Bank reported that while average growth
had remained at about 5 percent, this was not adequate for significant poverty reduction beyond
urban areas; that there were vast differences among regions and sectors and between the rich
and the poor; and that-inequality had risen sharply.

6.3     While Gemi Diriya had been progressing favorably, both the Tsunami and, to a more
significant extent, the changed political landscape put pressure on the program to alter its
design in mid-stream. In response to post Tsunami needs, the project diverted 16 percent of its
IDA financing away from the planned village investments towards humanitarian relief. The
diversion of funds does not appear to have affected the establishment or the resilience of the
village organizations supported: the project surpassed all of its targets both in terms of the
number of VOs created and the number of VSCOs that were supported.

6.4      The resumption of conflict however in 2006 -- accompanied by organizational and
political shifts to consolidate the writ of the newly elected national government during a tense
time in Sri Lanka’s history – had observable adverse effects on the sustainability of the citizen-
centered service delivery model adopted by the Government prior to the war, especially in the
North and the East, and between the first and second phases of the project approach. A country
that has never been included in the Bank’s Fragile and Conflict Affected State List – the
transition between the first and second phase of this project approach could have benefited
from a fragility assessment or a sector political economy analysis, especially given the role of
the second phase in supporting federated organizations in a decentralized context.

Convergence with the National Village Development Program

6.5     In 2007, as part of a ministerial reorganization, the Government of Sri Lanka
consolidated its rural infrastructure and livelihood portfolios within a newly created Ministry
of Nation Building and Estate Infrastructure Development (MNB) headed by the President and
supported by five non-Cabinet Ministers. As part of the reorganization, the MNB announced
the intention to expand its own village development program, referred to as Gama Naguma,
nationwide. To achieve this aim, the Government of Sri Lanka requested that the World Bank
fold Gemi Diriya into the national program, a move that would include moving away from the
Foundation model. Borrower finance for the project was halved as funds were directed towards
the national program. One of the key factors of the project’s success was the training and use
of experienced community leaders who were held accountable by the community.
                                                     23


6.6     At project close, the World Bank pointed with some concern to the speed at which the
Gama Naguma program was being scaled up (or rolled out) with regard to the sensitization,
training and capacity building that is needed to develop an inclusive, participatory poverty
reduction local service delivery model. By 2014, the Gama Naguma model had morphed into
the “Devinaguma” program whose operating modalities and terms of reference were yet to be
clarified at the time of the IEG mission. Some 15,000 recent graduates had been hired as
economic development officers to support Devinaguma at the local level, but training as
observed was inadequate, remuneration is low (10,000 Rs monthly) and the rotating nature of
the service undermines the model’s ability to support well-informed, pro-poor community
assistance.

6.7     To assess the level at which the Gemi Diriya supported organizations and activities
were still being utilized by the first phase villages, IEG included questions on institutional
residence, participation, and the quality of participation in its Household Survey. IEG also
utilized Focus Group Discussions and Interviews to probe further about the risks to the
development outcomes. The results are reported below:

INSTITUTIONAL RESILIENCE AND QUALITY OF PARTICIPATION

6.8     Findings from the IEG Household Survey reveal that five years after project close, on
average, roughly one out of every two village households in former Gemi Diriya villages (46%)
participate in what they refer to as ongoing Gemi Diriya activities (VO meetings, accessing
the VSCO) as compared to 70 percent that reported participating during implementation.

     Figure 6.1 HH Participation in Gemi Diriya Remains Strong, but is in Decline

                                                                               Percentage of
                                  Households in GD
                                                                               Households
                                 (2004-2010), as
                                                                               Currentlyin
                                 reported in 2014
                                                                               GD, 2014
      30.50%                     (n=500)
                                                                     46%       (n=500)

                69.50%                                    54%
                                                                               Percentage of
                                 Households Not in
                                                                               Households
                                 GD (2004-2010) as
                                                                               Currently not
                                 reported in 2014
                                                                               in GD, 2014
                                 (n=500)
                                                                               (n=500)



6.9     Overall, household welfare does not appear to have impacted households’ decisions to
stop participating in program activities, although middle income households reported facing
                                Percentage
                                 households, including the opportunity cost of travelling to and
different constraints than poor of
participating in village meetings.    Table 6.1 provides an exhaustive list of the explanations
                                Households
                                in GD, A
submitted through the IEG Survey.         quarter of the respondents that characterize themselves
                                       2014
                    46%
as middle class indicated       (n=500)
                           that ‘a  lack of time’ was the main constraint. The poor who left the
program,54%on the  other hand,   seemed
                                Percentage to have suffered from a lack of continued support,
including from a breakdown ofof   the village organization and its functions after project close. In
                                Households
                                not in GD,
                                2014 (n=500)
                                                            24


a program designed to target the poor, the self-selection by the better off to exit the program
can be considered one indicator of success

Table 6.1: Reasons for Leaving Gemi Diriya Activities by Wealth Rank
  WEALTH STATUS AS REPORTED BY       WELL OFF              MIDDLE INCOME                     POOR             EXTREMELY
          RESPONDENT                                                                                            POOR
 % of Persons Survyed (n=500)           6%                       50%                          40%                4%
 % of HH surveyed that                  5%                       44%                          47%                4%
 particpated during
 Implementarion
 % of HHs that reported no              5%                       40%                          49%                6%
 longer partipcating in 2014
 Reasons for Leaving,              No Time,       VO non- funcitoning/no more          Non-Functioning      BOD not
                                   No             activities, meetings, lack of        Village              honest (1);
                                   Activities,    continued support from GD            Organization;        VO not
                                   Death in       Foundation (25%); No time            Disputes (63%); No   Fucntioning”
                                   HH, “Road      (work, household or family           Time (work,          (`1); Have to
                                   that was       obligations , mostly applies to      children) (13%);     Work (1)
                                   requested      women ) (25%); Member left           Illness/Old Age
                                   was not        Village (marriage,                   (13%); Moved Away
                                   completed”,    employment) (14%);                   for work (7%);
                                                  Illness/Old Age (10%);               Meetings are Too
                                                  Disaastifaction with the             Far Away (6%)
                                                  Functioning of the VO
                                                  (corruption, change in BoD,
                                                  Political party issues, etc), (7%)
Source; IEG Gemi Diriya Household Survey (2014)

6.10 To further probe the extent to which villagers were participating in village organization
meetings – to assess the quality in addition to the quantity of household participation – IEG
asked Household Survey respondents if the village organization supported by Gemi Diriya still
existed and if so, to indicate if they knew when the last meeting was held. IEG found that 75
percent of all households (based on the random sample selected) answered positively that the
village organization was still functioning. However, two-thirds of this group could not recall
when the last village organization meeting took place.
                                                 25



 Figure 6.2: Does the VO supported by GD Still Exist? If Yes, when was the last
 meeting?


                                                                              Don't Know
                                  No, the Vo               1%   1%
                                  Does not Still      3%
                  10%                                                         Past month
                                  Exist
                        15%       I don’t Know
                                                       32%                    Within Past 6
                                                                              months
          75%                                                        63%      Within past
                                  Yes, the VO
                                                                              year
                                  Still Exists
                                                                              More than a
                                                                              year ago




6.11 The individual desire, or conviction, that villagers should be responsible for the
development of their village – on the other hand- was significantly higher at the time of the
IEG Survey in 2014 than at project close. Recognizing the methodological pitfalls of
administering repeat questions in a follow-on survey, IEG notes with interest that 80 percent
of all households visited in 2014 (compared to 33 percent of all households in the end line)
strongly agreed with the statement that “villagers should be in charge of their village
development.”
                                              26




 Figure 6.2 Responses to question, “Villagers should be Responsible for the
 Development of a Village”? 2010 - 2014

  90%       80.50%
  80%
  70%
  60%                                                     2010 Endline Impact
                                                          Assessment (n = 1040)
  50%
                                                          n=1040 HH
  40%      33%                 35%
                     26%                                  2014 IEG Household
  30%
                                                          Beneficiary Assessment
  20%                   13%                               Survey (n = 500) n=500 HH
  10%                             5%     5%
                                                    1%
    0%




7. The World Bank’s Safeguards Policies: Environmental
and Social Sustainability
7.1     Gemi Diriya Phase I was classified as a category B project for the Bank’s Environment
Safeguard. Village level investments were expected to be small, very localized, and labor
intensive. The project was not expected to have any significant impact on critical ecosystem,
culturally or socially sensitive areas The GOSL carried out an Environmental Assessment and
developed an Environmental Management Framework. Designed fifteen years ago, the project
adopted a “wait-and-see approach” which provided Village Organizations with a tool to screen
and reject investments that would potentially cause significant harm. Since the main types of
interventions were generally understood at design, however, a more comprehensive approach
would have been to develop a series of fit-to-purpose frameworks and mitigation plans for the
different expected sub-project types. These could have then been adapted during
implementation at the village and site levels, with the support of the Gemi Diriya Foundation
and Bank safeguard staff.

7.2    While capacity risks were recognized early on in the project cycle, both a lack of
capacity and a failure to prioritize environmental management issues resulted in a significant
number of environmental management plans not being implemented. During supervision, the
Gemi Diriya Foundation and the Bank found that only about 60 percent of all environmental
management plans were being implemented. This was especially the case for infrastructure
and agricultural livelihoods sub-projects (e.g. lack of drainage, minor erosion) where no
                                             27


corrective actions were taken. The Independent Assessment (2010) attributed this to the
project’s turning its attention to the second phase, which sought to support inter-village
activities as it began to fold itself into the national Gama Neguma program.

Land

7.3     Involuntary Land Acquisition (OP4.12) was not triggered at appraisal since it was
determined that most of the village sub-project activities needed very little or no land
acquisition, that land needed for income generation through private enterprise would be
procured at market rates, and that minor areas of land needed for uprading of common
infrastructure were already available.

7.4    Although the project did not acquire private lands, it attempted to make use of
government lands or lands obtained through voluntary donations from community or
individuals who offered such lands for broader notion of ‘community wellbeing’. The project
has developed a comprehensive database on land use for various project purposes with details
of ownership, size of the land, method of procurement (acquisition, direct purchase,
government or through donations).

Indigenous Peoples

7.5     The Social Assessment determined that the Bank’s Indigenous People’s Policy did not
apply to GD I even though a group of indigenous persons – the Veddas- were located in project
areas in Uva Province. The decision was based on a perception that this group had already been
integrated “into the mainstream” under the Mahaweli Development Program. Implementation
experience confirmed that there were no groups of traditional tribals (Veddas) in the Phase I
project villages.



8. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

8.1     Project preparation was informed by lessons drawn from the “Village Self Help
Learning Initiative (VSHLI)”- a pilot scheme tested in Sri Lanka’s North Central Province as
part of the IDA financed Mahaweli Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project. The concept for
Gemi Diriya (and the preceding pilot) emerged from the Village Immersion Program –a World
Bank Management training program that placed staff in village settings for up to a month at a
time. The pilot was designed to test a community-driven development model in response to
perceived weaknesses of earlier World Bank financed programs in Sri Lanka that lacked of
ownership at the local level, inclusion of the poorest of the poor, ant that demonstrated
insufficient sustainability of investments
                                               28


8.2     A seminar was organized in June 2002 to disseminate key lessons from the pilot to
national level policy makers, and a series of interactive workshops were organized to design
the Gemi Diriya program. VHSLI was incorporated as a separate component of the first phase
of Gemi Diriya. The pilot demonstrated the feasibility of a direct funding model leading to
village-wide planning, community contribution (cash and labor) for infrastructure and their
involvement in implementation, operation and maintenance. It also successfully demonstrated
that, within a participatory framework, communities could articulate their needs and priorities
and take responsibility for implementing and monitoring village development.

8.3     The model also tested and demonstrated the village company model as being an
appropriate institutional arrangement, due to its flexibility with regard to fostering a range of
business options, and its independence from political influence and bureaucracy. The design
of both VSHLI and Gemi Diriya itself also drew on a range of World Bank and other agencies’
CDD experiences and good practices, with regards to: community ownership and
contributions, direct financing to communities, accountability and transparency mechanisms,
and intensive supervision. Under VSHLI, in 2001, local level and Ministry officials went on
an exposure visits to Indonesia and Andhra Pradesh in India to learn from best practice CDD
experiences.

8.4     During Project preparation, 30 pilot villages were selected in considerably different
geographical settings compared to the irrigated areas of Polonnaruwa where VSHLI was being
implemented. These villages in the uplands of Badulla and drier areas such as Moneragala
engaged in intense monitoring and learning activities to fine tune the Gemi Diriya model, and
they sustained their piloting role throughout the life of the Project. This helped to reduce risks
identified in the PAD, such as potential weakness in VOs, low women’s participation and low
community willingness to contribute to costs.

8.5     The quality of design of the project could have been strengthened by identifying and
engaging reform minded elected officials who had a priori won the support of their
communities. Project design could have also been strengthened through the development and
implementation of a more inclusive communication strategy to foster good working
relationships with the Divisional Secretaries, the Graham Nildharis (appointed officials) and
the Pradeshi Sabhas (elected local official). Through interviews with these stakeholders, for
example, IEG learned that mid-way through the project, Pradeshi Ssabha members petitioned
the district governments owing to the felt concern that they had been left out of the project

8.6     IEG recognizes that, on average, the level of trust between communities (especially the
poorest members) and local authorities was low at the time of project design and that the overall
program design was geared towards addressing this constraint. As the targeted beneficiaries
were the poor and were therefore, owing to cultural norms prevalent at the time, more likely
to be subdued by authority or persons with influence, the project sought to level the playing
field for those that lacked voice, or agency. The expectation was that eventually, with
knowledge and an increased level of confidence, these marginalized individuals would begin
to interact with authorities and other service providers, and to hold them accountable.
                                               29


QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

8.7      The Bank applied valuable skills to supervision. There were regular supervision
missions, including workshops and cross-country visits. Missions appear to have been well
staffed with appropriate skills. At the technical level, there is evidence of a high level of
innovation and the creative use of experience from elsewhere and the sharing of the project
experience. As discussed in the previous section on risk, in response to post Tsunami needs,
the project diverted financing away from the planned village investments towards humanitarian
relief. The decision demonstrated flexibility and a willingness to support the client’s priority
needs. The Bank was able support the effective implementation of activities in spite of this
loss of funding.

8.8     The Bank helped to recruit and train hundreds of young foundation employees. Trained
in various aspects of community driven development, the Bank oversaw an effective and well
performing implementing agency, who though innovative new tools introduced by the Bank,
were taught about responsible and accountable service delivery. The foundation- designed as
a relatively autonomous implementing agency - allowed greater flexibility than a line agency
and was willing to try new participatory models or pro-poor local development. However, as
also discussed in the project documentation, a roadmap was needed for its evolution towards
sustainable institutionalization which could have been adapted within the changing political
context.

8.9    Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. Supervision is rated as Satisfactory. Overall Bank
Performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

8.10 The Government of Sri Lanka exhibited strong commitment to the Community Driven
Development, or Participatory Rural Development model. It provided adequate and timely
counterpart funds and ensured compliance with all credit covenants. In spite of some start-up
delays with regard to staffing, the Government respected the technical criteria for Foundation
staff selection, ensured continuity both of GDF staff and management through the life of the
project, and was respectful of its agreed autonomous status. The fact that the foundation
effectively supported the development of 1,037 villages and an equal number of village savings
and loan organizations is a testament to the Government’s commitment to the recognized
poverty reduction potential of the project.

8.11 The project introduced new governance innovations at the village level that had not
been tested before in the Sri Lankan context. The Government fully supported the project aims
of enhancing transparency and accountability between communities and their service providers
–an innovation that was absent from many of the Government supported village societies.
These innovations were, in parallel, receiving support at the policy level. The Government of
Sri Lanka put in place a set of Guidelines and Rules for Public Procurement in 1997 (supported
by the World Bank through the VHSLI) which subsequently revised in 2003/2004. The
                                               30


guidelines have reportedly supported marked improvements in the transparency of government
procurement processes at all levels (Provincial Councils, Local Governments).

8.12 Following the 2007 national elections, project responsibility was transferred from the
Ministry of Samurdhi and Poverty Alleviation to the Ministry of Nation Building and Estate
Infrastructure Development. This move brought the Gemi Diriya program within the ambit of
a more powerful Ministry (the President of Sri Lanka was also the Minister in charge), making
it possible to strengthen the mainstreaming/integration of some of Gemi Diriya’s principles
and service delivery strategy into other national poverty programs. By 2008, the Bank began
to test ways to mainstream the Gemi Diriya institutional and financial model into the
Government’s national village development, or “Gama Naguma” program. The Bank’s aim
was to maintain the Gemi Diriya principles, particularly participation and accountability, at the
inter-village – or the Pradeshiya Sabha – level. Although originally planned for the second
phase, the project agreed to begin to support larger scale inter-village infrastructure and
connectivity investments at the zonal and regional level.

8.13 Designing and implementing this revised component presented several challenges. It
took some time initially to overcome community skepticism that they would be given
responsibility over such larger amounts of money (compared with Gemi Diriya’s smaller intra-
sub-projects) on the one hand, and from local officials on the other that communities would be
able to handle this responsibility.

8.14 It also shed light on areas of divergence would eventually impact the implementation
of Phase II with regard the project’s goal of integrating the Gemi Diriya approach into the
emerging national platform. While the Government of Sri Lanka exhibited strong commitment
to the Community Driven Development, or Participatory Rural Development model during the
early stages of project implementation, as it began to develop its own national village
development program ( “Gama Naguma”, or “Devi Naguma” as it has since come to be
known) it abandoned some of the core principles and practices that had contributed to the
successful implementation of the project– including participatory poverty mapping, intense
attention to inclusive group formation, strong facilitation, and the social accountability tools.

8.15 Borrower finance for the project was halved mid-way through implementation as funds
were directed towards the national program and a decision was taken to disband the GD
Foundation. The decision has resulted in an erosion of the significant investment that was made
in the corps of (mainly) youth facilitators supported by the project, who were trained in
participatory rural development – including community mobilization, support for financial
literacy and services, etc.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY

8.16 The project was implemented by the Gemi Diriya Foundation. The Foundation
effectively oversaw and implemented village development activities in 1037 villages in three
provinces in Sri Lanka. Recruited and trained in various aspects of community driven
development by the World Bank, Foundation staff proved capable of providing support for
inclusive and participatory institutional development and technical assistance in the areas of
infrastructure development, financial services, and other livelihood activities. The Foundation
                                              31


- as service provider - was held accountable by a village scorecard system. Its active
participation in this system served as a first proof of concept of the contribution that social
accountability mechanisms can play in facilitating the accurate and efficient transfer and use
of village funds. As reported in the Focus Group Discussions, all issues concerning the
questionable use of funds were reported to have been effectively managed by the Foundation,
when and where they occurred.

Financial Management and Procurement

8.17 Financial management and Procurement were rated Satisfactory throughout the life
of the project. Systems and capacity for sound financial management and procurement were
largely in place from an early stage, and were supported by transparent and clear procedures
that were rigorously implemented and monitored by the communities themselves. VOs as
companies performed annual audits and most of them have done this. Although Governance
and Accountability Action Plans (GAAPs) had not yet been introduced by IDA at the time
when the Project was being prepared, in the design of the Gemi Diriya program the task team
paid very close attention to the issues that GAAPs would later address. A GAAP review in
2008 concluded that “good governance principles have been infused in its [Gemi Diriya’s] core
values and embedded in project policies and procedures”.

8.18 Monitoring and Evaluation should have been strengthened. The Foundation provided
support for both the Mid-Term Review and the End Line Assessment (conducted by an external
agent) and, as reported in interviews with the first phase Foundation staff, were also asked to
report on village implementation through frequent, less formal interactions with the World
Bank TTL and members of the team. Nevertheless, streamlining information flow between
different levels of the Foundation was a recurring issue.

8.19 A moderate shortcoming was that clear mechanisms for greater linkage and
convergence with line department programs and local development coordination could have
been developed earlier. Similarly, engaging local politicians in policy discussions and exposing
them to good examples of the village development process was inadequate until the latter half
of the Project. Similarly more emphasis could have been placed on policy oriented studies to
accelerate political support and engagement.

8.20 Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The performance of the
Implementing Agency is Rated Satisfactory. Overall Borrower Performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.



9. Lessons
9.1     Programmatic Approaches that involve multiple stages of lending require
iterative analysis of national priorities which can be interpreted through political
economy analyses. This iterative analysis is especially critical in areas or countries that
are affected by fragility or conflict. In the case of Gemi Diriya, sensitivities increased
alongside efforts to scale-up a village empowerment model as the proposed federated system
                                              32


began to resemble too closely a parallel structure of Government. Hostilities increased
sensitivities towards the composition of locally elected bodies endowed with decision-making
power (and funding) designed to more effectively identify and respond to village development
priorities.

9.2     A relatively autonomous implementing agency allowing greater flexibility than a
line agency may be very valuable for testing new participatory models but the roadmap
of its evolution towards sustainable institutionalization, i.e. folding it back into a
government institution, needs to be planned in advance and then later, if necessary,
adapted as the political and economic environment evolves. The use of a semi-autonomous
implementing agency was effective in implementing an innovative new approach to rural
development in Sri Lanka, but the approach lacked a transition plan and a strategy for
communicating the tested merits of the new model to policy makers. Staff trained in
community driven development principles ultimately found their skills to be “unsellable”
within the national rural service delivery model The per unit staffing costs of the model also
would have required some reconfiguration in order to bring it to scale.

9.3    Continuity of community support up to a defined point of graduation - that
includes mechanisms for involvement of the poor and the marginalized - is important for
longer term sustainability of participatory community development processes. The Gemi
Diriya model was designed as a self-selecting vehicle for poverty reduction whose activities
would gradually lose appeal to households moving up the income ladder. Household
graduation could generate and free up resources for the remaining poor. But sustained outreach
and support for inclusive participation in local decision-making across several rounds would
be needed to reach the poorest of the poor.

9.4      Synergies between the provision of financial services and complementary
infrastructure investments, carefully designed, can offer compounded community
welfare benefits. In the case of Gemi Diriya, water supply projects provided an additional
critical input needed to complement the financial investments made in agricultural (irrigation)
and non-farm (brick-making) activities. The improvement of rural roads further supported an
enhanced return on investments by improving market access.
                                                   33


References
Bebbington, A. et al. The Search for Empowerment. Social Capital as Idea and Practice at the World Bank.
        Kumarian Press Inc. 2006.
Binswanger-Mkhize, Hans P. et al. Local and Community Driven Development. Moving to Scale in Theory
       and Practice. The World Bank. 2010.
Dani, Anis and Arjan de Haan. Inclusive States. Social Policy and Structural Inequalities. The World Bank.
        2008
Gootaert, Christian and Thierry Van Bastelaer. Understanding and Measuring Social Capital. Directions in
        Development. The World Bank. 2002.
Independent Evaluation Group. The World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy Completion Report Review
        FY09-FY12. May 10, 2012.
Mansuri, Ghazala and Vijayendra Rao. Localizing Development: Does Participation Work? The World
        Bank. Washington DC 2013.
Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Assistance Evaluation. January
        23, 2001
Uphoff, Norman and C. M. Wijayaratna. Demonstrated Benefits from Social Capital: The Productivity of
        Farmer Organizations in Gal Oya, Sri Lanka. World Development 28:11 November 2000.
Uphoff, Norman. Learning from Gal Oya: Possibilities for Participatory Development and Post-Newtonian
        Social Science Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1992.
World Bank. South Asia Sustainable Development Department. The Gemidiriya Program, Sri Lanka:
       Plotting the Community Assessment Process. Social Accountability Series. Note No. 2. August
       2007.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Community Driven Development and Livelihood Improvement
       “Gemi Diriya” Project. March 5, 2004.
World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. Community Driven Development and Livelihood
       Improvement “Gemi Diriya” Project. December 31, 2010.
World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Assistance Strategy. 2003
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report. 2006.
World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Partnership Strategy. 2012.
                                       35                                     ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Investing in Social Capital: Lessons from Two Decades of Village
Development in Sri Lanka - An Assessment of the Gemi Dirya Project in Sri Lanka
(2004-2010)


Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                      Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                      estimate      current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                     69.8              58.1                83.3
Loan amount                             51.0             52.2                 102.4
Cofinancing                              n/a              n/a                  n/a
Cancellation                             n/a              n/a                  n/a


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                        FY05   FY06    FY07       FY08       FY09      FY10          FY11
Appraisal estimate       2.8   8.1     21.9       41.8          51.0   51.0           51.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            1.5   6.6     22.4       33.3          48.4   51.0           52.2
Actual as % of          53.6   81.4    102.3      79.7          94.9   100           102.4
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:


Project Dates
                                             Original                    Actual
Initiating memorandum                       02/25/2003                 02/25/2003
Negotiations                                02/18/2004                 02/18/2004
Appraisal                                   12/04/2003                 12/04/2003
Board approval                              03/30/2004                 03/30/2004
Signing                                     07/29/2004                 07/29/2004
Effectiveness                               10/28/2004                 10/28/2004
Mid-term Review                             05/14/2007                 06/15/2007
Closing date                                03/31/2009                 03/31/2009
ANNEX A                                          36


Task Team members

          Name               Title (at time of appraisal       Unit           Responsibility/
                             and closure, respectively)                         Specialty
Lending
 Meena Munshi                Task Team Leader                 SASRD                 TTL
 Terrence Abeysekera         Sr. Econ./Co-Task Leader         SASRD            Team member
 Anne Ritchie                Consultant                                Commun. Fin./micro fin.
 Samantha De Silva           Sr. Soc. Protection Specialist    SASED       Community developmt
 Surendra Govinda Joshi      Sr. Transport Specialist         SASDT           Rural Infra. Spec.
 Wahida Huq                  Sr. Operations Officer           SASDA    Community Organizat.
                                                                          and Operational Aspects
  Barbara Verardo           Social Development Specialist     SASRD       Social, gender and youth
  R.R. Mohan                Sr. Social Development Spec.      SASDS           Social safeguards
  Sumith Pilapitiya         Lead Environmental Specialist     SASDI        Environmental Aspects
  Yoshiko Ishihara          FAO, Social/Gender Aspects                         Gender Aspects
 Ghazali Raheem             FAO, M&E Aspects                                         MIS
 Deborah Ricks              Program Assistant                 SASRD            Team Assistant
 Gajan Pathmanathan         Sector Manager                    SASRD     Sector Manager (until 2007)
Adolfo Brizi                Sector Manager                    SASRD       Sector Manager 2008-09
Harini Wijesundara          Program Assistant
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe   Financial Management Spec.        SARFM        Financial Management
Manvinder Mamak             Sr. Financial Specialist          SARFM        Financial Management
Parmesh Shah                Participatory/CDD Aspects                  CDD/Commty Report Card
Suzanne F. Morris                                             LOAGS             Disbursement
Tashi Tenzing               Sr. Sanitation Engineer                             Infrastructure
Vikram Raghavan             Counsel                            LEG                  Legal
Vinayak Narayan Ghatate     Consultant                        SASDA    Business Linkages/Priv. Sector
Gajan Pathmanathan          Sector Manager                    SASDA            Sector Manager

Supervision/ICR
Terrence Abeysekera         Consultant                        SASDA          Economic Aspects
Henry K Bagazonzya          Sr Financial Sector Spec.         SASFP         Community Financing
Vijaya Bharathi             Consultant                                       Social Mobilization
Dhimant Jayendraray Baxi    Sr Procurement Spec.              SARPS             Procurement
Vinay K. Bhargava           Consultant                         SDV              Governance
Darshani De Silva           Environmental Spec.               SASDI             Environment
Vinayak Narayan Ghatate     Consultant                        SASDA             Partnerships
Vichitrani Liyana           Rural Development Specialist      SASDA          Livelihood Aspects
Gunawardene
Priyantha Jayasuriya        Team Assistant                    SASDO            Team Assistant
Arachchi
Sitaramachandra Machiraju   E T Consultant                    SASDA    Bus. Promotion & Microenterp.
Manvinder Mamak             Sr Financial Management Spec.     SARFM         Financial Management
Seenithamby Manoharan       Sr Rural Development Spec.        SASDA             Infrastructure
Ramachandran R. Mohan       Sr Social Development Spec        SASDS           Social Safeguards
Sumith Pilapitiya           Lead Environmental Specialist     SASDI             Environment
Ghazali Raheem              Consultant                        SASHD                  MIS
Eashwary Ramachandran       Operations Analyst                SASDI             Environment
 CS Renjit                  Consultant                         SASDA      Local Governments, and
                                                                                CDD aspects
 Anne Ritchie                Consultant                                      Community Finance
                                                       37                                     ANNEX A


Brenda Lee Scott               Information Assistant               SASDO           Team Assistant
Parmesh Shah                   Lead Rural Development Spec.        SASDA      Community Organizations
Meera Shenoy                   Consultant                          SASDA       Employment and Youth
Mio Takada                     Rural Development Specialist        SASDA            Economic and
                                                                                     Operational
Tashi Tenzing                  Sr Sanitary Engineer                SASDU            Infrastructure
Barbara Verardo                Sr Rural Development Spec.          SASDA        Inclusion, Gender and
                                                                                Youth and Operations
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe      Sr Financial Management Spec.       SARFM       Financial Management
Enoka Wijegunawardene          Financial Management Spec.          SARFM       Financial Management
Miriam Witana                  Procurement Specialist              EAPPR             Procurement
Samantha de Silva              Sr Social Protection Specialist     SASED                 CDD
S. Selvarajan                  Economist/Consultant                 FAO        Economic and Financial
                                                                                 Analysis/ICR Team
Luis Coirolo                   Lead Sector Spec./Consultant                   CDD Advisor/ICR Team
Jim Hancock                    Monitoring and                        FAO       Lead ICR Author/Team
                               Evaluation/Livelihood                                    Leader




    Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
               Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$ 000s (including travel and
                                                   Staff Weeks (number)
                                                                                     consultant costs)
    Lending
      FY03                                                    48                         125.86
      FY04                                                    78                         262.45
      FY05                                                                                  0.00
      FY06                                                                                  0.00
      FY07                                                                                  0.00
      FY08                                                                                  0.00
                                        Total:              126                           388.31
    Supervision/ICR
      FY03                                                                                  0.00
      FY04                                                    10                           12.61
      FY05                                                    65                         145.47
      FY06                                                    84                         238.59
      FY07                                                    57                         165.66
      FY08                                                    56                         220.66
      FY09                                                    17                         171.34

      FY11                                                    7.65                         59.20
                                        Total:              289                          954.33
ANNEX B                                               38


Annex B. IEG Household Survey Methodology

Beneficiary Survey. The purpose of the IEG household survey was to examine the extent to
which Gemi Diryia’s project objectives were achieved by determining: (i) whether the project
supported the development of accountable and self-governing local institutions; (ii) their
function during the project period; and (iii) the extent to which these village organizations
remain able to manage sustainable investments in an accountable way. To track performance
over time, IEG reinserted questions related to the health of the village organizations that were
asked        in      2010        as       part       of        the        end-line       survey.

Beneficiary Selection. IEG surveyed a sample of 50 randomly selected treatment villages that
were used for an end-line assessment conducted by the Sri Lankan Business Center in 2010.
The survey questionnaire is reproduced in Annex B. The 2010 end-line assessment collected
data from a random sample of 72 of the 1,034 Villages included in the project, and compared
these against 21 non Gemi Diriya villages (used as a control). 5

In order to select 50 villages from the 76 villages used in the impact evaluation, IEG devised
a proportional random sample with weights that corresponded to the number of villages from
each of the three provinces according to the weighting/coverage given in the impact evaluation.
The sample was then split evenly between early batches (1 and 2) and later batches (3 and 4),
(see Table 1). Within the villages, at the household level, households were randomly selected
using voter registration lists provided by the village administrator. The field team visited the
select households and spoke with whichever adult answered the door. If there was no one
home at the randomly selected household, the team interviewed a respondent from the nearest
household.


    Table 9.1: Proportional Sample Allocation
    PROVINCE/BATCH              EARLY BATCHES              LATE BATCHES (3&4)                    TOTAL
                                    (1&2)
    Uva                                  12                            12                          24
    Southern                             7                             7                           14
    Sabaragamuya                         6                             6                           12
    Total                                25                            25                          50



5
  The sampling methodology employed by the external end line assessment included the following: (1) The
projects were clustered by sequential batches according to when the project intervention was given to a village
(pilot, batch 1 – 4); (2) Weights were then assigned according to maturity level of the project and number of
villages in each batch and villages were randomly selected. The rationale behind a preference for the earlier
batches was that some of the villages that received the project at later phases had yet to make it past certain
milestones set by the project office at the time of the end line assessment and therefore had not been fully exposed
to the program; (3) Twenty households per village were randomly selected and these households were
administered the survey.
                                             39                                         ANNEX B


Table 2 provides general descriptive statistics for the beneficiary sample and Table 3 lists the
districts and the randomly selected villages that were visited by the IEG assessment.


  Table 9.2: Sample Composition of the PPAR Assessment (n=502)
  Sex                             302 Female (60%), 200 Male (40%)
  Age                             18-25: 34 (6.7%)
                                  26-45: 210 (41.8%)
                                  46-65: 211 (42%)
                                  66 + : 47 (9.3%)
  Gemi-Diriya Status              349 (69.5%) of respondents indicated that someone in their HH
                                  was at one point in time a member of Gemi Diriya.
  Self-reported HH Wealth Level   Very Poor: 23 (4.5%)
                                  Poor: 199 (29.6%)
                                  Neither Rich nor Poor: 251 (49.8%)
                                  Well Off: 29 (6.2%)
 Source: IEG




  Table 9.3: Divisions selected
  District                        Division
  Uva                             Badalkabura, Hali Ela, Kandeketiya, Madagama, Madulla,
                                  Mahiyanganaya, Meegahakiula, Moneragala, Passara,
                                  Redeemaliyadda, Siyambalanduwa, Soranatota, Uvaparanagama,
                                  Welimada, Wellawaya
  Southern                        Agunukolapelessa, Beliatta, Hakmana, Katuwana, Mulatiyana,
                                  Thangalla, Walasmulla, Weerakatiya, Yakkalamulla
  Sabaragamuya                    Godakawela, Kalawana, Kolonna, Kuruwita, Pelmadulla,
                                  Rathnapura, Welgiepola
Source: IEG
ANNEX B                                      40


  Table 9.4: Villages Randomly Selected for Semi-Structured Interviews
  District                        Village (Division)
  Uva                             Dangamuwe (Uvaparenagama), Hidikiula Rathmalgama
                                  (Moneragala) Welaoya (Kandeketiya)
  Southern                        Adupelena (Tangalle), Konkarahena (Walasmulla), Dikewawe
                                  (Agunakolapelessa), Gahalakoladeniya (Yakkalamulla),
                                  Radaniara (Walasmulla)
  Sabaragamuya                    Eratna (Kuruwita), Panagama (Pelmadulla), Mawethalanda
                                  (Godakawela), Kotakethanna (Godakwela)



Assessment Limitations
The assessment was not intended to provide a comparative analysis between control and
treatment groups. The assessment was designed to collect beneficiary feedback in a systematic
manner, which allowed IEG to validate the ICR findings (which were drawn from an end line
assessment), as well as determine additional perceptions about the project and its sustainability
five years after project close.
                                                      41                                        ANNEX C


Annex C. Persons Consulted*
               Name                                   Title                            Location
Government of Sri Lanka (National)

Dr. P.B. Jayasundera                 Secretary to the Treasury             Ministry of Finance & Planning

Mr. Priyantha Ratnayake              Director General, Head of the         Department of External Resources,
                                     Department of External Resources      Ministry of Finance & Planning


Mrs. Darshana Senanayake             Director General                      Department of Project Management
                                                                           and Monitoring, Ministry of Finance
                                                                           & Planning

Ms. Ayanthi de Silva                 Additional Director General           Department of Project Management
                                                                           and Monitoring, Ministry of Finance
                                                                           & Planning

Mr. Ajith Abeysekara                 Additional Director General           Department of External Resources,
                                                                           Ministry of Finance & Planning

Ms. Arunasalam Kavitha               Assistant Director                    Department of External Resources,
                                                                           Ministry of Finance & Planning

Udayangani Kumarihami                Development Officer (WB Division)     Department of External Resources,
                                                                           Ministry of Finance & Planning

Mr. S. K. Liyanage                   Project Director , Gamaneguma         Ministry of Economic Development
                                     Second Community Development &
                                     Livelihood Improvement Project

World Bank

Doina Petrescu                       Program Leader                        Africa Country Director Groups, WB
                                                                           Office: Yaoundé - Central Africa,
                                                                           World Bank

Meena Munshi                         Senior Economist                      Agriculture Department- Global
                                                                           Practice, World Bank

Seenithamby Manoharan                Senior Rural Development Specialist   Agriculture Department- Global
                                                                           Practice, World Bank

Donor and Research Partners

Mr. Anura Herath                     Country Program Office                IFAD

Ms. Beth Crawford                    Representative                        FAO

Golom Abbas                          Representative                        UNHCR

Mr. Guiseppe Crocetti                Chief of Mission                      IOM

Sri Widowati                         Country Director                      ADB
ANNEX C                                               42


Ahsan Tayyab                           Unit Head, Portfolio Management   ADB

Nelun Gunasekera                       Social Development and Gender     ADB
                                       Specialist

Mr. Subinay Nandy                      Resident Representative           United Nations (One UN)

Ms. Lovita Ramguttee to                Deputy Country Director           UNDP

Dr. Herath Manthrithilake              Head                              Sri Lanka Development Initiative

                                                                         International Water Management
                                                                         Institute

Provincial, District, GN, and Local Officials (Appointed, Elected)

Mr. D.M.P. Bandara                     Government Agent                  Ritigahawatta GN Division,
                                                                         Moneragala, Uva

Mrs. E.P. Swarna Athugala              Government Agent                  Hidikiula Rathmalgama, Moneragala,
                                                                         Uva

Mr. H.P. Kularathne                    Chief Secretary                   Sabaragamuwa Province

Mr. Weerasooriya                       (Acting) Graham Nildhari          Ratnapura district, Sabragamuwa

Mr. Rohan Keerthi Dissanayake          District Secretary                Badulla

D C Samaraweera                        Graham Nildhari                   Uvaparanagama, Badulla, Uva

Mrs. Nirosha Jayarathna                Graham Nildhari                   Palugamaella GN Division, Badulla,
                                                                         Uva

Mrs. Upali Rathnayake                  Graham Nildhari                   Matiwela Landa GN Division,
                                                                         Badulla, Uva

M S S Kumari                           Graham Nildhari                   Welaoya, Badulla, Uva

Ms Atukorala                           Chief Secretary                   Southern Province


Ravindra Hewawitharana                 District Secretary                Galle, Southern Province




J.N.Shamalee                           Graham Nildhari                   Walasmulla, Hambantota. Southern


P. Prasad Chaminda                     Graham Nildhari                   Agunukolapelassa, Hambantota.
                                                                         Southern

W.N.P. Susantha                        Graham Nildhari                   Thangalla, Hambantota. Southern

Mr. RC DeZoysa                          Graham Nildhari                  Walasmulla, Hambantota, Southern

Mr. Wimaladasa                         Graham Nildhari                   Pelmadulla, Ratnapura, Sabragamuwa
                                                43                                   ANNEX C


 MDS Nilmini Kumari              Graham Nildhari               Godakawela, Ratnapura,
                                                               Sabragamuwa

 DKN Gunesekera                  Graham Nildhari               Godakawela, Ratnapura,
                                                               Sabragamuwa,


 Mr. Darmesana-                  Pradeshya Sabha Member        Ratnapura District, Sabragamuwa

 Mr. Sunil Kanngara              District Secretary            Ratnapura District, Sabragamuwa

 Pradeshiya Sabha Member         Pradeshiya Sabha Member       Galle District, Southern

                                 Chair, Pradeshya Sabha        Madulla

 Ms. Samanthi Ranasinghe         Divisional Secretary          Ella

 Mr. Rohan Keerthi Dissanayake   District Secretary            Badulla

 Mr. H.P. Kularathne             Chief Secretary               Sabaragamuwa Province

 K.E. Rohana                     Graham Nildhari               Katuwana, Hambantota. Southern

 Mr. Hewavitharane               Graham Nildhari               Galle District

 H.D.S. Thilakarathne            Graham Nildhari               Weeraketiya, Hambantota. Southern

 M. Chandradasa                  Graham Nildhari               Weeraketiya, Hambantota, Southern

 A.K. Daglus                     Graham Nildhari               Beliatta, Hambantota, Southern

 H.P.Bandula                     Graham Nildhari               Yakkalamulla, Galle, Southern




*Other Persons consulted include (1) 216 villagers in the 12 Villages selected for Focus
Groups, (2) 500 persons residing in Gemi Diriya Phase I Villages that took part in IEG’s
Household Survey.
ANNEX D               44


Annex D. Borrower Comments
45   ANNEX D
