                                                                                                      92819
                                                                                                      June 26, 2007

                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in Sri Lanka


                                                                 More on Sri Lanka:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




About 50 percent of the population in the project area (three southern provinces in Sri Lanka) live
below poverty line (on less than $1 a day) compared to about 7 percent of the population
nationally; and about 60 percent of the population lack basic services, such as drinking water,
sanitation, credit, markets, etc. Although various poverty reduction initiatives have been launched
over the years in these areas, they have tended mostly either to be unsustainable or not suitable
for replication on a large enough scale to have a significant impact on the problems, or have not
reached the poorest and most vulnerable households.




- The project - known as Gemi Diriya - builds on a successful pilot called Village Self-help
Learning Initiative (VSHLI) that was introduced in 2000.
- The objective of the 12-year program (in three phases) is to enable rural communities improve
their livelihoods and quality of life.
- The objective of phase 1 is to enable the communities in three southern provinces to build
accountable and self-governing local institutions and to manage sustainable investments by: (i)
devolving decision-making power and resources to community organizations; (ii) strengthening
selected local governments which demonstrate responsiveness and accountability to rural
communities; and (iii) working with federations of village organizations, the private sector and
NGOs on economic empowerment to increase the size and diversity of livelihood options.
- The strategy adopted involves direct resource transfer and participatory decision-making
involving all community members using a Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach.




Some 100,000 households (about 500,000 people) in the poorest districts of Sri Lanka
have benefited from community infrastructure and productive investments (drinking
water, access roads and bridges, ICT centers, access to credit, markets, skills and income
generation).


Highlights:
- About 500,000 people through 535 village organizations (registered under the Company’s Act)
have gained confidence and voice in deciding and implementing their development priorities and
have benefited from infrastructure and income generation activities.
- Before the project, about 70 percent of households in the project villages had no access to
credit and marketing facilities. Now, about 14,000 self-organized savings and production groups
have been set up and are actively mobilizing savings. Savings groups have used their
cumulative savings of US$4 million to leverage credit equal to about ten times that amount, and
have invested this savings in more than 125 types of income generating activities. They have
also attracted Foreign Direct Investment of US$ 10 million.
- Investments in local infrastructure have allowed for partnerships between communities and the
private sector, better market linkages and access to basic services. For example, in village
Madumasgulla, the construction of a bridge allowed safe crossing of a stream which in turn
provided access to school, increased trade and increased land value. In village Pitakanda, the
construction of a village access road allowed for a five-fold increase of trading vehicles entering
the village.
- Youth and women have been primary beneficiaries. Their role in decision making, employment
and income generation has increased from about 20 percent to 50 percent.
- Community infrastructure and services are now delivered through a mechanism that is cost-
effective, as investments of equal or better quality than those executed through traditional
programs cost about 30 to 40 percent less.
- Through skills development trainings and off-farm employment, poor women and unemployed
youth are contributing substantially to the welfare of the household. About 22,000 people have
benefited from skills development activities. Their services, as Community Professionals, are
being demanded by other village communities and programs, and have led to setting up of 4
district and one national Community Professional Learning and Training Centers, that are self-
sustaining.
- The project households have been weaned away from dependency on subsistence agriculture
and wage labor. As the project intentionally targets both young and old, households now benefit
from a diversified stream of income, both from on-farm and off-farm livelihood opportunities.
- The participatory nature of the decision making process has led to better targeting of the poor
and improved governance, transparency and accountability at the village level.




- Total project cost is US$69.8 million; out of which IDA grant contribution is US$51.0 million; the
government of Sri Lanka contribution is $11.0 million. The communities are themselves
contributing about 30 percent of the capital cost of infrastructure investments.
- IDA has introduced a new approach that has led government of Sri Lanka to revise its own
policies, shifting from a welfare-oriented to an empowerment-oriented approach to poverty
reduction.
- Evidence from the field shows that this is an effective mechanism to make poverty reduction
efforts more demand responsive, equal and sustainable, complementing market and government
agencies by achieving immediate and lasting results at grassroots level.
- The field experience has also shown that this approach can improve cost-effectiveness and
efficiency of services like physical and social infrastructure and microfinance, and improve
significantly local governance and accountability.
- IDA contribution has been instrumental in testing of this innovative approach, disseminating its
lessons of cost-effectiveness, inclusion, accountability and sustainability among key policy
makers and local level officials. As a result, this approach is now being scaled up nationally
through the government’s own programs.




The project is expected to benefit some 1,000 villages including 1 million people by end 2007.
The second phase of APL, starting in 2008, will expand the geographical coverage to additional
2,000 villages in the poorest divisions while also focusing on institutional change of local
governments and on linkages with other governmental programs. The project will continue
monitoring sustainability and viability of investments and ensuring that graduating communities
are managing and operating their village activities after they exit from the program. However,
scaling up quickly and linking the Gemi Diriya project to a national program known as Gama
Neguma, without building necessary capacity and understanding at the local level, may pose a
challenge in the future.




Community Development and Livelihood Improvement Project— Gemi Diriya (2004-09)
Project documents
- Project Website
