Report No. 1726-SU                                                                         &  m
Sudan                                                                        FILE CUPY
Livestock Marketing Project
Appraisal Report
Volume 11
February 24, 1978
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =     Sudanese Pound (LSd);
I LSd = 100 piastres (pt)
US$2.50 1/                 =     LSd 1.00
US$1.00                    =     LSd 0.40
US$2.5 million             =     LSd 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AID MEASURES
I hectare (ha)             =     10,000 m  - 2.47 acre (ac)
I feddan (fed)             =     1.04 ac   - 0.42 ha
I ha                                          2.38 fed
I ha                   2         1.67 makhomas
1 square kilometer (km ) =       100 ha
1 kilometer                =     1,000 meters (m)
ABBREVIATIONS
DG                          Director General
LM11C                       Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation
ODM                         Ministry of Overseas Development,
United Kingdom
PLIMO                       Provincial Livestock Marketing
Officer
RMEA                        Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
(World Bank)
RTC                         River Transport Corporation
SRC                         Sudan Railways Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   The effective parity relationship for the US dollar is LSd 1 -
US$2.87156. An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied
to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from
exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 -
US$2.871 continues to apply, as a result of the application of exchange
taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per US dollar (i.e. 15%) to the
rate of LSd 1 - US$2.87.



TABLE OF CONTENTS               FOR OFFICIAL USt ONLY
ANNEXES                                                                     VOLUME
1.  Livestock Marketing                                                      II 1/
Table I - Number of Livestock by Province
Figure 1.1 - Marketing Flows of Livestock in the
Producing Areas
2.   Railway Transport of Livestock                                          II
Appendix 1 - Basic Assumptions Used in the Calculation of
Railway Operating Costs
Table I - Projection of Livestock Traffic Railed by LMMC:
Actual Estimated Traffic and Full Capacity
Table 2 - Projection of Livestock Traffic Railed by LMMC:
Wagons Loaded at Each Station
Table 3 - Projected Seasonality of LMMC Rail Traffic
3.   Project Market and Transport Infrastructure                             II
Table 1 - Secondary and Terminal Markets - Market Capacities
Figure 3.1 - Livestock Flows - Khartoum Market
Figure 3.2 - Livestock Flows - Soba Railway terminal
Charts - Primary Market (World Bank 17705)
- Secondary Market - El Obeid (World Bank 17694)
- Khartoum Terminal Market (World Bank 17695)
- Railway Holding Yard - El Obeid (World Bank 17708)
- Railway Transit Yard - Er Rahad (World Bank 17706)
- Soba Railway Terminal Yard (World Bank 17707)
4.   Project Costs
Table  1 - Project Cost Summary
Table  2 - Project Cost Including Contingencies                   II
Table  3 - Railway Transport
Table  4 - Transport Infrastructure - Summary
Table  5 - Transport Infrastructure - Aweil Railway
Holding Yard
Table 6 -  Transport Infrastructure - Babanusa Railway
Holding Yard
Table 7 - Transport Infrastructure - Ed Da'ein Railway
Holding Yard
Table 8 -  Transport Infrastructure - El Obeid Railway
Holding Yard
Table 9 - Transport Infrastructure - Meiram Railway
Holding Yard
Table 10-  Transport Infrastructure - Nyala Railway
Holding Yard
1/   Volume II will not be circulated but will be available on request
from the Eastern Africa, Northern Agriculture Division.
This documnlt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES                                                                       VOLUME
Table 11 - Transport Infrastructure - Er Rahad, Kosti and
Sennar Railway Transit Yards
Table 12 - Transport Infrastructure - Soba Railway
Terminal Yard
Table 13 - Market Infrastructure - Summary
Table 14 - Market Infrastructure - Terminal Markets - Summary
Table 15 - Market Infrastructure - Khartoum Terminal Market
Table 16 - Market Infrastructure - Soba Terminal Market
Table 17 - Market Infrastructure - Secondary Markets - Summary
Table 18 - Market Infrastructure - Aweil Secondary Market
Table 19 - Market Infrastructure - Babanusa Secondary Market
Table 20 - Market Infrastructure - El Da'ein Secondary Market
Table 21 - Market Infrastructure - El Fasher Secondary Market
Table 22 - Market Infrastructure - El Obeid Secondary Market
Table 23 - Market Infrastructure - Kadugli Secondary Market
Table 24 - Market Infrastructure - Kosti Secondary Market
Table 25 - Market Infrastructure - Meiram Secondary Market
Table 26 - Market Infrastructure - Nyala Secondary Market
Table 27 - Market Infrastructure - Sennar Secondary Market
Table 28 - Market Infrastructure - Wad Medani Secondary Market
Table 29 - Market Infrastructure - Thirty Primary Markets
Table 30 - LMMC Headquarters - Capital and Operating Costs
Table 31 - LMMC Headquarters - Staff Operating Costs
Table 32 - Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
5.   Disbursement and Project Implementation                               I
Table I - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Chart - Project Implementation Schedule (World Bank 17693)
6.   Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC)                       I
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference for Internationally             II
Recruited Staff
Appendix 2 - Training Program for Senior LMMC Staff
Appendix 3 - Livestock and Meat Marketing Studies
Appendix 4 - Order of Establishment for LMMC
Charts - LMMC Organization (World Bank 17620)                    I
- LNMC Communications (World Bank 17682)                II
7.   Markets and Prices                                                   II
Table 1 - Recorded Export of Livestock and Chilled
Meat by Main Importing Countries



ANNEXES                                                                      VOLUME
Table 2 -  Surplus of Cattle and Sheep and the Flow of
Trade Estimate for Base Year 1977
Table 3  -  Projections of Cattle and Sheep Surpluses
from Six Western Provinces and Demand for
Rail Transport
Table 4  -  Projection of Provincial Surplus of
Cattle and Sheep Destined for Consumption,
Fattening/Processing for Export and Live
Export and the Resulting Demand for Rail
Transport
Appendix 1 - An Estimate of Inter-Provincial Market Flows
and National Export Potential
Table I    - Inter-Provincial Market Flows and National
Export Potential
Table 2    - Estimated Population of Townships not
Included in Aerial Survey
8.   Financial Benefits of Railing vs Trekking                            II
Table I     -  Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Sheep
Table 2     -  Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Cattle
9.   Financial Analysis                                                    I
Appendix  I - LMMC Financial Assumptions
Appendix  2 -  SRC Financial Assumptions with Project
Appendix  3 -  SRC Financial Assumptions without Project
Table  1   -  Operating Assumptions to Financial Projections          I
Table  2    -  LMMC Projection of Marketing Revenue
Table  3    -  LMMC Railway Transport of Livestock, Pro-forma
Profit and Loss Statement
Table  4    - LMMC - Railway Transport of Livestock, Pro-forma
Cash Flow
Table  5    - LMMC - Pro-forma Consolidated Profit and Loss
Statement
Table  6    - LMMC - Pro-forma Consolidated Cash Flow
Table  7    -  SRC Pro-forma Incremental Statement of Profit
and Loss
Table  8    -  SRC Pro-forma Balance Sheet With Project
Table  9    -  SRC - Pro-forma Incremental Cash Flow With
Project
Table 10    -  SRC - Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Table 11    -  SRC - Financial Internal Rate of Return
Table 12    -  SRC - Pro-forma Statement of Profit and Loss
Without Project



ANNEXES                                                                        VOLUME
Table 13    -  SRC - Pro-forma Balance Sheet Without Project
Table 14    -  SRC - Pro-forma Cash Flow Without Project
Table 15    -  SRC - Comparative Balance Sheets
Table 16    -  SRC - Statement of Profit and Loss
10.   Government Cash Flow                                                   I
11.   Project Benefits and Economic Analysis                                 I
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2 - Cattle Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
Table 3 - Sheep Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
Table 4 - Financial and Economic Prices
Table 5 - Project Effect on Livestock Marketing and Export
12.   Livestock and the Economy                                             II
Appendix I - Proposed Private Sector Investments
MAPS
Stock Routes, IBRD 12986                                                    I
Market and Railway Infrastructure, IBRD 12987                               I



ANNEX I
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock Marketing
A. General
Livestock Numbers
1.        It is exceedingly difficult to obtain reliable estimates of the
livestock population of most African countries. The majority of these
estimates are currently based on vaccination records, slaughterhouse figures,
total market sales, and returns made by field officers or rural authorities.
Due to the general inadequacy of the records available, as well as the un-
willingness of the producers to give an accurate count of the numbers they
own (in order to minimize the level of taxes owed), these figures are
notoriously suspect, and give use to widely varying estimates depending on
the method used. Recognizing the importance of the livestock industry and
the crucial need for accurate herd estimates, the Sudan Government commis-
sioned a comprehensive livestock census which was carried out by consultants
(Resource Management and Research, Nairobi) over the period 1975/76 - 1976/77.
The census was based on an aerial survey, supported by extensive ground
investigations. The results of this census are presented in Table 1; a
summary of the total numbers of livestock by category is given below:
Cattle          Sheep       Goats       Camels
…mi--------------mllion--------------------
15.36           16.23       11.29         2.36
2.        These animals are owned almost exclusively by traditional producers;
some 60% of the cattle and 80% of the sheep and goats, and almost all the
camels are owned by migratory pastoralist, with the remaining animals in
these categories owned mostly by small sedentary cultivators (see Annex 1).
Four western provinces - Northern and Southern Darfur and Northern and
Southern Kordofan - contain about 40% of the cattle, 37% of the sheep, 42% of
the goats and 52% of the camels.
Offtake
3.        Present estimates of total offtake vary widely; these range from
6-15% for cattle, and 20-35% for sheep and goats. Figures for marketed
offtake are generally agreed to be about 5% for cattle, 20% for sheep, 25% for
goats and 4% for camels.   The above offtake rates, and particularly that for
cattle are fairly low. Sale of animals is constrained by custom, a high
incidence of disease, a shortage of finance, and a marketing mechanism which
cannot respond to expanding opportunities in an adequate manner.



ANNEX I
Page 2
B. The Livestock Marketing System
4.        All marketing of livestock is financed and managed by the private
sector. The system is dominated by a small number of merchants who through
a network of agents, traders and middlemen finance and organize the movement
of livestock from the rural areas. Although these merchants have been
reasonably successful in assuring the functioning of the market system,
several important constraints have limited the expansion of total marketed
production; these include:
(a) the difficulty in channelling a widely scattered
supply of animals through the official markets; it
is estimated that only about half of the trade
stock pass through official markets.
(b) the inefficiency of the present markets, due both to the
low level of physical investment and to the excessive
number of middlemen who participate in virtually every
sale; and
(c) the absence of adequate transport facilities necessitating
the long and costly trekking of animals from the producing
areas (mainly in the west) to the Khartoum area.
Livestock Markets
5.        There are basically three types of livestock markets in the Sudan:
primary markets, secondary markets and terminal markets. The primary markets
are located in the smaller and more remote villages in the livestock pro-
ducing areas. The markets generally lack even the most basic physical
infrastructure, and are often no more than a place where livestock are
traded. Stock are brought to the markets by the producers and by bush
traders who visit the nomad camps in the outlying areas; markets may be held
weekly, every two weeks, or in remote areas, even once a month. Almost all
sales are arranged by brokers who operate as middlemen between the sellers
and the agents and traders interested in purchasing stock. Secondary markets
are located in the larger towns in the producing areas. Although many lack
even rudimentary facilities, others may have a walled enclosure with some
interior divisions, an office, and on occasion a small covered stand for
buyers and a sales ring. Although some producers visit these markets, the
majority of sales are between the bush traders on the one hand, and agents
and small independent traders on the other. Auction markets have been tried
in several areas, but due to the concerted opposition of the brokers, these
have proven largely unsuccessful. A terminal market is simply a very large
secondary market located in a major urban center; the Omdurman and the Wad Medani
markets are probably the only markets in the country which would fall in this
category. Despite the large network of established markets it is estimated
that, quite apart from the direct producer-consumer sales which it is impos-
sible to regulate, some one-third to one-half of all the animals moving out of



ANNEX I
Page 3
the producing areas do not pass through an official market. This can be
attributed to the fact that at the present time there is little incentive for
the producer to bring his animals the often long distances to a market. It is
generally far easier for him to sell his stock to the bush traders, for while
the prices received in these transactions are often below market prices, the
producer is spared the trouble and the time involved in an often fruitless
trek to the market; given the fact that as many as 50% of all animals offered
for sale at a given market may fail to find willing buyers, it is difficult to
convince the producer to go out of his way to utilize these facilities.
6.        The markets are administered by the local Rural Council, which
regulates sales and collects the relevant taxes. The most important market tax
is the livestock sales tax. This tax is levied at a fixed rate which is set
annually for the whole province, and is paid by the buyer. At Ed Da'ein for
example, the tax represents just over .5 percent of the value of animals
traded. (In some markets, a local "self-help" contribution tax has recently
been added to the basic tax by the Rural Council). At the main markets the
sale tax is collected by clerks of the Rural Council; a legal sales receipt
cannot be obtained unless the tax has been paid. In a number of smaller
markets the rights to collect the sales tax and to issue legal sales receipts
are leased to private individuals. The value of tax receipts sold may be two
or three times the lease value of the market, and thus the council loses a
certain amount of potential tax revenues by utilizing this procedure. On the
other hand, however, it saves money which would otherwise have to be spent
mobilizing clerks to attend the markets. As markets grow in size, they are
often taken over and controlled by the Rural Council. An estimate of the
average sales taxes imposed in Southern Darfur is given below. These rates
may be taken as roughly typical of rates in the major producing area.
Livestock Sales Tax Rates
Southern Darfur 1975
Sales Tax
(ESd per head)
Cattle (mature)                                 0.50
Calves                                          0.20
Sheep                                           0.10
Goats                                           0.06
Camels                                          0.375
Horses                                          0.625
Donkeys                                         0.125
It is clear that a large number of transactions go untaxed.



kNNEX I
Page 4
The Trading Process
7.        One of the most important characteristics of the livestock market-
ing system is the number of extremely complex functional relationships which
exist between individuals engaged in the livestock trade. A thorough under-
standing of the network of inter-relationships, why they exist and the
implications of upsetting them, is essential if realistic proposals for
improvement of the marketing system are to be formulated. The marketing
network involves physical supply links, financial links and, most important,
bonds of kin and friendship (an overview of the process can be seen in
Figure 2.1).
8.        Brokers (Sebabi).  A producer wishing to sell some of his animals
has relatively few outlets available. The majority, especially those selling
cattle, go to a livestock market where they sell through a broker (sebabi)
who acts as an intermediary between the producer and the buyer. It is very
simple to become a broker since there are no barriers to entry and licencing
is not enforced; a minimal amount of capital is required and the only
costs are those of travelling to various markets. Professional qualifications
include a thorough knowledge of the local market situation and current prices
and self-confidence in dealing with merchants. The broker has a range of
functions from acting simply as intermediaries to trading. He does not
handle money on behalf of the buyer or the seller, but sells his expertise
as a negotiator and his knowledge of current prices to the producer. At
most markets it is almost impossible for a producer to deal directly with a
merchant. As he approaches the market he may be intercepted by several
brokers, each offering to act on his behalf at the market and promising good
prices in return for a small commission. Eventually the producer succumbs,
and from that moment the broker is continuously active, approaching merchants
and buying agents and consulting with the producer. Eventually, a price is
agreed upon and he receives his commission from the seller. Sometimes the
broker may extend his activities, visiting adjacent ferigs or settlements a
few days before a major market to collect animals to take to the market.
In some cases he may be promised a commission by a merchant for every animal
he brings to the market or, if he is well-known and trusted in the ferig,
he may simply sell the animals on behalf of the nomads. It is not always
easy to tell whether a broker is working as an agent for a merchant or as
a broker and whether his primary responsibility is to the buyer or the seller.
Without exception, the brokers as a group see themselves as performing a
valuable service for the nomads by protecting them from exploitation by
merchants. In terms of class, tribe and income, they are closest to the
producers. However, they also perform a valauble service for the merchants
by spreading market information in the ferigs and, by collecting animals,
enabling them to buy large numbers in a short time. Clearly, there are
opportunities for the unscrupulous to obtain commissions from both sides
in a deal and to cheat over prices. However, the broker depends on his
good reputation, and if he loses this by deceiving either buyer or seller,
his opportunities for business will disappear. A respected broker does
not have to pursue commissions, but is approached by buyers and sellers
alike.



ANNEX I
Page 5
9.        Traders (Gelaia).  The traders are distinguished from the brokers
in that they use their own capital to finance purchases rather than relying
on trust and credit. The gelaja, a small-scale local trader, specializes
in short-distance and short-term buying and selling. His principal activity
is travelling to the camps (ferigs), paying cash on the spot for animals and,
having collected together a herd of say 10-15 cdttle, selling them at a local
market. During the peak marketing period, gelajas may also be able to profit
from buying at a market where there happen to be few large merchants and
consequently prices are low, and then selling just a few days later at an
adjacent market where prices are high. During the dry season many gelaias who
may well have their own herds, travel to the southern pastures where they are
able to profit from "hardship" sales of stock. These animals they may trek
periodically to supply butchers in the urban centers such as Ed Da'ein and
Babanusa; alternatively they may hold the animals and run them with their own
herds until the following rainy season when prices rise. It is impossible to
be precise about the number of gelajas operating or their share of the market.
However, on the basis of information from merchants, brokers and market clerks
at Ed Da'ein, it is estimated that gelajas handle somewhat less than 10
percent of all cattle purchased by merchants.
10.       Agents (Wakils).  The agent acts as a buying agent for a merchant;
in this capacity he functions much as does a trader. The only difference is
that whereas the trader uses his own working capital, the agent is financed by
someone else. It is not uncommon however, to find an agent simultaneously
active in the capacity of both a trader and an agent. The agents are generally
financed either by local merchants or by large merchants and exporters in
Omdurman. They receive their working capital from the sponsoring merchant
along with precise instructions on the number of animals to be bought and
prices to be paid. His qualifications for the responsible task of buying
animals are primarily that he has a thorough knowledge of the livestock trade
and that he is trusted by the merchant. Throughout the period he is buying
animals, he exchanges market information with Omdurman and other centers by
telegraph, letters and word of mouth to help him gauge prices and trends
accurately; the return to the capital invested by the merchant depends entirely
upon his agent's ability to do this successfully.
11.       In addition to the major agents who are given considerable re-
sponsibility and autonomy in the buying and transporting of animals, there are
also minor agents who perform functions very similar to those of the brokers
and traders; indeed, some may also act in those capacities when not engaged by
a merchant. These minor agents are usually employed on a commission basis to
act on behalf of the merchant or his main agent in the market place itself.
They handle little or no cash, but simply collect together small numbers of
animals for the merchant (or his agent) to purchase. In effect, the role
of the minor agent, as with that of the broker engaged by a merchant, is to
enable purchases of large numbers of cattle (100 or more) to be accomplished
in the few hours that the market lasts. In view of the protracted haggling
over price which takes place, a merchant would be unable to conduct individual
transactions for each animal. Speed is essential when it is remembered
that in some areas at least, more than three-quarters of all cattle sales
take place in four months of the year.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
12.       Merchants (Jellabas).  The definitive character of the merchant is
the control of capital.  In fact, it is the merchant who, by supplying
millions of pounds every year in working capital, ensures that the marketing
system continues to function. Unlike the trader who operates with small
amounts of working capital over a limited time, the merchant may have his
money tied up in purchases of stock for six months or more, financing the
movement of animals from the producing areas through to the domestic consumer
or the export markets. Besides capital, the main contribution of merchants to
livestock marketing is expertise. Provincial merchants may personally parti-
cipate in purchasing animals and may spend considerable time and money in
following their animals as they are trekked east. City merchants rarely go to
the producing areas themselves but rely on experienced agents to do the
buying.   However, they maintain a close watch on local and world market
prices and send out a stream of advice and orders to their agents. A trend
which has been observed in the west (but which cannot be quantified) is a
growth in the number of small independent traders and merchants. This trend
should increase competitiveness to the benefit of the producer. One reason
for this trend is possibly the shift by city merchants away from financing the
purchase of herds in the west, which ties up capital for 6-9 months, to
purchasing in Omdurman and reconditioning (or even fattening) for export. The
result has been fewer large agents in the west, greater reliance on local
capital in the trade, and the emergence of small merchants. In this way the
city merchants transfer the substantial risks in trekking livestock to their
provincial counterparts and concentrate their capital in the lucrative export
trade. At the present time there are between 15 and 20 large merchants who
dominate the domestic trade, and some 6-7 merchants who control the livestock
export market.
13.       Guarantors (Damins).  The guarantor guarantees all livestock sales.
His stamp or signature is required on each tax receipt issued; this signature
testifies to the ownership of the animal and the seller's right to be selling
it. In order to be able to do this, the guarantor must know all the families
within the tribe for which he acts as damin. For this reason mature men
are generally appointed to this quite lucrative post. If an animal which
has been certified by a damin is found to have been stolen, either the owner
or the buyer can sue the damin for the value of the animal. For this service
the damin receives in some cases 2 percent of the market value, in others a
sum of 15-25 piasters (pt) for cattle and 5 pt for sheep from the seller. At
major markets (such as Nyala and Ed D'ein) there are 20 or more damins, one
for each community in the area; they are also present in reduced numbers
at the smaller markets. The damin, therefore, has a very important'role to
play, especially in areas near frontiers where stealing and smuggling of
cattle is a hazard. He provides informal insurance for the buyer (usually a
merchant) against the risk of producers selling stolen stock.
14.       Financial and Personal Relationships.  Livestock marketing in
the Sudan is organized on the basis of an extensive network of informal
financial and personal relationship. Services vital to the operation of
the system, including credit, market information, and transport, which in all
developed and many developing countries are provided by Government, are all



ANNEX I
Page 7
provided here by this privately organized informal institutional infrastruc-
ture. For most purposes, personal and financial relationships go together;
business is, wherever possible, conducted with members of the extended family
and close friends. Credit is customarily made available to members of the
extended family and to trusted friends, but it is extended only on very
extortionate terms to others. Limited access to starting capital and credit
has ensured that trading in general has remained in the hands of the merchants
for generations. The major part of the working capital for the livestock
marketing system is concentrated in the hands of a relatively small number of
merchants based in Omdurman. This capital is distributed through the system
by the network of agents and sub-agents. This crucial relationship between
the merchant, his agent and the sub-agents, is based on trust. On the one
hand, trust that the thousands of pounds entrusted to the agent will not be
embezzled, and on the other that the merchant will acknowledge a job well done
by offering his agent opportunities to expand and grow richer. For this
reason only kin or long-established friends are chosen as agents. Similarly,
the ability to obtain such things as an export licence or priority for a stock
wagon on the railway depends largely on the extent of the merchants's contacts
or wastas. The creation and maintenance of a network of obligations among
people strategically located in the economy is essential for any large-scale
trader.
15.       Market information concerning prices and  numbers of animals enter-
ing different markets is provided by the network of agents and relatives. An
individual who sustains a trading loss will be supported by gifts and credit
from relatives and friends. Working credit on an informal personal basis
extends throughout the marketing system from butchers who slaughter and sell
on credit from merchants to traders who purchase on credit from producers.
Indeed, an agent or trader can only make maximum use of his working capital by
using his position of trust in the community. It is not uncommon for locally
well-known and respected traders to purchase livestock, especially sheep on
15-30 day credit, paying approximately 50 percent of the agreed price to the
producer or other supplier in cash and the balance after the stock has
been subsequently sold to a large-scale merchant. In this way the trader
can double his turn-over. Since most capital is in the hands of large mer-
chants, individual progress in the trade is largely dependent upon the
establishment and maintenance of a position of personal trust with the
immediate supplier of capital. Thus, the financial relationships based on
trust which are essential to the continued operation of the marketing system
are very stable, and it is in the interests of individuals who need capital to
maintain them.
Movement of Stock
16.       At present the great majority of trade stock are trekked from the
rural areas to Omdurman; it is estimated that some 150,000 cattle (in groups
of around 100) and around 400,000 sheep (in groups of about 300) make the trek
to Omdurman each year. Most of the movement takes place during and immediately
after the rains when ample feed and water is available throughout the trek;
peak periods of trekking occur between October and January when mortality and
weight losses are minimal.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
17.       Animals destined for the east, whether bought by merchants or agents
are usually held in the area until they can be trekked. Cattle bought during
the rainy season are usually held for only short periods near the major
markets and, as each merchant completes his trekking herd (say, 2-3 herds of
approximately 50 cattle each), they move off for the 40-60 day trek. Cattle
bought between February and June in the dry season grazing areas are not
usually moved immediately unless the previous rainy season was so good that
grazing is still available, or unless prices are so high that the merchant is
able to cover the high risk of loss on a quick trek to the east.  Merchants
buying cattle at this time of year are playing off the low buying prices and
the chance of trekking a herd eastwards early in the rainy season when prices
in the city are at peak, against the constant struggle to find pasture and
water, and the high risk of loss. Trade herds have played a major part in the
overgrazing that has occurred in the vicinity of the major markets, as
they are held in these areas waiting for the trek to begin.
18.       Livestock trekking eastward along broadly defined stockroutes,
average about 20 km per day. The two main stock routes emerge from points
about 200 km apart in western Sudan, one at El Fasher in Northern Darfur and
the other at Nyala, the railhead in Southern Darfur. (Map, IBRD 12986).
These two routes continue on a parallel course north of the railway, ultimate-
ly converging at Fatasha, about 40 km from Omdurman. The El Fasher-Omdurman
route covers a distance of some 900 km, and the Nyala-Omdurman route a
distance of about 1,400 km. A number of feeder routes, some involving a trek
of over 400 km, connect other producing areas in the west with the two main
stockroutes. Livestock using the feeder routes are mostly small mobs obtained
from primary markets and bush trader collections purchased outside of the
markets (the latter are mostly disposed of at the secondary markets situated
on or near the main stockroutes). The stockroutes were administered by the
Animal Resources Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, but are now the
responsibility of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corportaion (LMMC). All
livestock entering the stockroutes must be vaccinated by the Veterinary
Officers before they can receive movement permits. Proof of vaccination must
also be shown in order to gain admittance to the established water points
along the route. Water yards 1/ have been established by the Rural Water
Corporation along the stockroutes (most of them are now operated by the Rural
Councils). Wells have also been dug at numerous other locations along the
routes. One or the other type of water point is generally found at intervals
of roughly one day's trek. Thus, in the rainy season stock are usually
watered every day; in the dry season, however, because of the limited supplies
of water and the high charges often imposed for the use of water points, stock
are watered only every two days. Although the construction of new water yards
has alleviated the difficulties of trekking over these long distances, serious
problems remain. Maintenance of borehole facilities, lack of fuel for pumps,
absence of fodder and poor communications all contribute to the difficulties
of travel.
1/   A water yard uslally consists of a fully equipped borehole, an elevated
reservoir (50 m ), fountains for the human population, and metal2watering
troughs. These are located in a fenced area of 3,000 to 4,000 m .



ANNEX 1
Page 9
19.       The difficulty of moving livestock from the producing areas in the
west to the main markets in the east is undoubtedly the principal constraint
upon the development of the livestock sector. The present system whereby
most of the livestock cover these long distances entirely on foot, does -
in spite of the fact that it is a relatively low cost method of transporting
stock - have several serious disadvantages. First, it produces a very
pronounced seasonality of supply, with a consequent impact upon prices in
Omdurman. Second, animals trekked during the dry season when pasture
and water are scarce, usually suffer severe weight losses enroute, and
costly reconditioning is required to prepare the animals for either local
consumption or for export. Third, mortality is much higher during the
dry trek than is the case in the rainy season.
20.       In addition to those animals trekked to Omdurman, smaller number of
both cattle and sheep are transported to Khartowm by rail. In 1974 it is
estimated that some 10,000 cattle and 40-50,000 sheep were transported from
the west by Sudan Railways. The number of animals (particularly cattle)
transported was low due mainly to the lack of cattle wagons and the unreliabi-
lity of service. A comparison of costs (including the cost of reconditioning)
shows however, that if these constraints can be overcome, transport by rail
would be much the preferred alternative.
Transport Costs - 1974
Trekking                      Railway
Oct-Jan   Feb-June           Oct-Jan    Feb-June
…i-----------------ISd/head--------------------
Cattle                 3           22                 5            6
Sheep                  I    not possible              1            1
Omdurman Market (Zariba)
21.       Omdurman is the hub of the livestock marketing system.  Not only
does it attract the major share of all marketed livestock, but it is also the
financial and organizational center. It provides much of the working capital
for the system in the producing areas, credit for the butchers in the domestic
market, and capital and expertise for finding and supplying markets abroad. A
simple model of the flow of livestock from the producing areas to the consumer
or the export market is shown in Figure 2.1..
22.       The livestock market at Omdurman is really no different from
any of the large markets in the producing areas except that it is much
bigger. During the peak months, 200-250 cattle on average may be sold



ANNEX I
Page 10
per day and 600-650 sheep; the animals actually brought to the market may
well total over 1,000 cattle and 2,000 sheep. The market is operated by
the Municipal Council and is located in the center of Omdurman near the
veterinary station and the municipal abattoir. The location of the Omdurman
market is undoubtedly convenient for both traders and butchers and geo-
graphically well placed in relation to the abattoir, but the massive and
constant movement of animals through the town to the market presents ever
increasing problems, especially with regard to sanitation and disease out-
breaks. In spite of its size the market is unable to handle the large number
of transactions which take place each day, and a considerable number of sales
are carried out in the open space around the market. Any physical expansion
of the facilities would be impossible, however, as the space is badly needed
for the construction of housing. As in most markets a large proportion of all
the transactions (especially of sheep) are conducted outside the market itself
where control of vaccination and tax is impossible. Many animals, especially
the small stock, do not come to the market to be sold, but go direct to the
multitude of small butchers; no systematic attempt is made to control this
illegal marketing.
23.       Omdurman Holding Grounds.  The principal constraint on the system
at Omdurman is that practically all the animals have to be held in the vici-
nity for between 3 weeks and 3 months. This is due to the fact that over a
6-12 week period, all the cattle and most sheep have had to walk between 500
and 1,000 miles from the producing area to Omdurman; consequently they are
rarely in a condition to be slaughtered or exported immediately. The need to
hold animals for reconditioning (that is, putting back the weight lost in
trekking) adds considerably to the cost of marketing, directly in terms of the
feedstuffs and labor involved and indirectly in terms of the additional time
during which working capital is employed. An estimate of the daily direct
cost of reconditioning bulls is 35 pt. per head per day. The ration most
commonly used consists of cotton seed cake (sometimes groundnut cake and
wheat bran), or occasionally forage sorghum (Abu 70), sorghum stover or
groundnut husks and salt. In addition, as a result of the relatively short
season during which trekking is possible, a large stock of animals to supply
meat for the Three Towns has to be built up. Even if the animals require only
little reconditioning, they must be supplied at least with maintenance rations
until they can be finally sold. The greatest number of animals is to be found
in the holding areas during November and December, that is, immediately after
the rainy season. The principal holding areas are Wadi Seidna and Hassaya
(north of Omdurman along the Nile), Zagalona, Thowra and Um Badr (west of
Omdurman and close to the market) and Fiteihab (south of Omdurman just below
the confluence of the Niles). A census carried out in November 1975 found
more than 7,000 cattle and 10,000 sheep held within a radius of 10 km of
Omdurman (see Table below). The average herd size was 101 cattle and 145
sheep, although the actual herds ranged from 10 to 500 cattle and up to 1,000
sheep. Both cattle herds and sheep flocks had been in the holding area for an
average of 3 weeks, but some had been there for as long as three and a half
months.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Livestock in Holding Areas near Omdurman, November 1975
Area                     Bulls    Cows  Calves   Total    %   Sheep    %
Zagalona                    5,603      77       96     5,776   79   5,618    55
Fiteihab                       455      -       10       465    6      248      2
Hassaya                        995      4        -       999   14      592      6
Fatasha                        -        -        -        -      -   2,281    22
Other                           16      -        16       32    1   1,538    15
Total                       7,069      81       122    7,272  100  10,277   100
Since there are no pastures whatever in the areas, the herds remain all
the time at small camps, usually tended by the herders (khabeers) who have
trekked them from the west. They are watered daily from the Nile or, in
the area west of Omdurman, from standpipes and troughs. Feed is supplied by
lorry from Omdurman oil mills and Gezira farms and presented to the animals in
cut-down oil drums.
24.       During and shortly after the rainy season, merchants try to delay as
long as possible the movement of herds into the final holding grounds and may
hold and graze the herds up to 150 miles away, in the vicinity of Um Inderaba,
Fatasha or Esh Sheik es Sediq (in Gezira and White Nile Provinces), or even
beyond El Obeid, until the time when prices are right to bring them into
Omdurman. During the dry season this option is not open and the herds must
traverse the difficult El Obeid - Omdurman section of the stockroute as
quickly as possible in order to reach the supplies of fodder available there.
Sometimes merchants may even truck forage to stock on this section. As a
result of this, and the inevitably greater loss of weight during the dry
season, animals are held much longer during the dry than the rainy season.
25.       The fact that most livestock coming from the west must be recon-
ditioned before being sold for export or slaughter, means that most small-
scale provincial merchants are forced to sell "thin" animals immeditely upon
arrival at Omdurman. They have neither the additional working capital to
finance the reconditioning, nor the agents or expertise in Omdurman tco
organize it. Consequently, many herds reaching Omdurman are sold to the large
domestic/export merhants or to small specialist "reconditioning" merchants.
Reconditioning merchants maintain feedlot camps in the holding areas, buying
in cattle direct from the trek in batches of 10-15 and selling fat cattle as
they are ready. Being close to Omdurman, they are in an excellent position to



ANNEX I
Page 12
gauge the right time to buy and sell and to secure buyers, either wholesale
butchers or exporters for their fat cattle. Generally these merchants are
financed independently, and may even have to provide short-term credit (10-15
days) if they sell to small butchers. Their profit depends upon knowing when
Their profit depends upon knowing when to buy and sell, avoiding sick animals
and being able to buy supplies of forage at reasonable prices. In some cases,
these merchants also buy cows with calves, marketing fresh milk in nearby
Omdurman and fattening the calves to sell to quality butchers.
26.       Large-Scale Export and Domestic Market Merchants.  The large-scale
merchants who engage in the export trade and supply much of the domestic
market have their own holding and reconditioning grounds; these all have
constant throughput of animals. They trek their own herds from the west and
also buy in Omdurman market. Any cattle they believe are not suitable for the
export are sold to butchers or small reconditioning merchants for the domestic
market. With specific markets in mind and possibly even signed contracts,
these large merchants are able to direct their agents in the west and buyers
in Omdurman, to the types of animal required. These are then reconditioned
and possibly fattened in order to reach target live or carcass weights.
C. Meat Processing
Livestock Slaughter for the Domestic Market
27.       The central municipal abattoir for the Three Towns is located at
Omdurman, a short distance from the livestock market. It was constructed in
1952 and at that time was considered the most modern and hygienic of its kind.
It is owned and operated by the Municipality as a service for the local
wholesale and retail meat trade, and until the 1974 ban on exports, served
also the considerable and increasing trade in chilled carcasses for export
(now handled by the Kadero abattoir, see below). The plant was designed to
achieve a daily throughput of 150 cattle and 500 small stock. Given a con-
stant operation, this would allow an annual throughput of 54,750 cattle and
182,250 sheep and goats. In practice these numbers have been well and con-
sistently overtaken as is indicated in the table below.
Total Annual Slaughter at the Central Abattoir
Cattle     Sheep and Goats       Camels
1970/71                          90,303        253,224               791
1971/72                          85,877        256,083              473
1972/73                          71,823        307,007              913
1973/74                          77,734        185,903             1,071
1974/75                          63,394        147,205              486
1975/76                          65,623        254,880                20



ANNEX 1
Page 13
This increased throughput has put somewhat of a strain on the abattoir
facilities; very often delays are encountered due to mechanical breakdown,
hygiene problems or other difficulties. The machinery and equipment have
given good service over 25 years of continuous use, particularly considering
the limited opportunities for a general overhaul or preventive maintenance.
However, replacement with up-to-date plant must be considered soon if the
abattoir is to continue the present rate of production under desired hygienic
standards. Moreover, given the expanded consumption requirements of the
Three Towns, the construction of a second abattoir is now necessary.
28.       Butchers.  At present, some 65 wholesale butchers make use of the
central abattoir. Of these, 30 are from Omdurman, 20 from Khartoum and 15
from Khartoum North. The charges for slaughter and dressing are: Cattle
ESd 1, calves and immatures LSd 0.60, sheep and goats [Sd 0.25, and camels
ESd 1.25. The butchers operate a fund as an insurance against condemnations
of cattle, paying ESd 1/head as a premium. Compensation is paid on condemned
carcass weignt at a rate of ESd 0.3/kilo. The fund at present has a reserve
of ISd 20,000. Condemnations for the 12 months ending December 1976 were:
Cattle      Calves/Immatures    Sheep
Carcasses                1.3%              0.58%         0.05%
Livers                  12.23%             NA            8.47%
Processed by-products (except blood meal) produced mainly from condemned
materials, brought a return of over ISd 30,000 in 1976.  The present prices
obtained are meat meal, ESd 200/ton; bone meal, LSd 175/ton; and blood meal
ESd 30/ton. The price of blood meal is exceptionally low. In addition,
nearly ISd 10,000 were obtained from the sale of feet.
29.       As a result of the climate and the lack of refrigerated storage,
there are a large number of retail butchers serving the Three Towns. The
majority of these operate on an extremely small scale, selling only half
or even a quarter carcass and 2-3 sheep per day. Supplies are received
each day from the wholesale butchers who arrange for the slaughter. The
wholesale butchers are mostly concerned with supplying the smaller retailers,
although many of them have their own retail outlets. As they need to ensure a
regular supply of slaughter stock every day, they have holding areas where
cattle are reconditioned and held on maintenance rations until ready for
slaughter. Apart from convenience, the obvious advantage of this procedure is
that they are able to purchase animals where prices are low (i.e. during the
peak trekking period October-January) and hold them until prices for fat
cattle and meat rise at the end of the dry season.
30.       Meat Supply to the Three Towns.  The total meat supply for the Three
Towns from the central abattoir at Omdurman is set out below. It shows that



ANNEX 1
Page 14
the supply fell considerably between 1971 and 1975; beef, veal, goat and
camel meat continued to fall during 1976, but the supply of mutton increased
in that year by 42% above the 1975 figure. This change could have been
precipitated in part by the lifting of the ban on exports in October of
1976.
Estimated Meat Supply of Three Towns-
Khartoum, Khartoum North, Omdurman 1/
(Tons)
1971/72     1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76
Beef               10,258.8      8,545.5    6,747.0    6,530.6    6,072.4
Veal                2,430.1      2,222.2    2,294.8    2,607.7    1,724.8
Mutton              4,635.2      5,042.1    4,993.6    2,181.2    3,113.8
Goat                  152.4        125.5       190.3       169.4      100.1
Camel                  48.6        104.0       232.0      175.6        15.2
Total              17,525.1    16,039.3   14,457.7   11,664.5   11,927.2
I/   Combined population is 800,000 persons.
31.       Actual consumption of meat in the Three Towns is difficult to
assess with any degree of accuracy due to the unrecorded slaughtering which
takes place outside of the Omdurman slaughterhouse. It is extremely unlikely
that any appreciable numbers of cattle could be disposed of in this way, but
the numbers of sheep and goats slaughtered in family compounds and by small,
unregistered butchers would be considerable.
32.       In the outskirts of the Three Towns and within Khartoum Province,
there are six small slaughterhouses where meat inspection is carried out and
for which the veterinary department keeps records. The combined throughput of
these six slaughterhouses is set out below. The figures reveal a remarkable
increase in throughput in the years 1974/75 over those of 1973/74. In terms
of meat, the increase in 1974/75 is 2,238 tons or 28%, and for 1975/1976 the
increase is 1,819 tons or 252%. It is possible that all or part of this
striking increase could have been disposed of in the Three Towns and would
thus account for the reduced supply from the central abattoir.
Throughput of 6 Small Slaughterhouses in Khartoum Province
Cattle             Sheep               Goats            Camels
No. of     Meat    No. of    Meat       No. of   Meat    No. of   Meat
Head     (Tons)    Head    (Tons)       Head   (Tons)    Head   (Tons)
1973/74   6,334        950   13,556       244      1,163     14        72      14
1974/75  16,171      2,426   55,909    1,066      3,149      38      401       80
1975/76  10,979      1,647   75,863    1,366      2,085      25         7       1.4



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Livestock Slaughter for Export
33.       The export abattoir at Kadero, north of Khartoum, is located within
the Disease Free Zone and adjacent to the quarantine station. Situated within
a fenced site of 15 feddans, the slaughterhouse was constructed with Danish
aid by the Danish contractors (Intercool). The daily capacity of the plant is
given as 250 cattle and 1,000 sheep over a 10 hour working day. However, the
excellent "on rail" layout and equipment on the killing floors indicate that
with slight modification and trained staff these numbers could be significant-
ly expanded.
34.       The buildings are well designed and constructed but lack a wide
concrete apron or tarmac surrounds to prevent dirt and sand being carried into
the slaughterhouse. Service installations (water, steam and electricity) have
been well carried out. Water is obtained from a borehole on the site and
pumped to a head tank which, given a capacity slaughter, would hold not much
more than one hour's supply. Generally, under conditions such as those which
prevail at Kadero, a reserve supply of water to cover at least one day's full
kill is desirable; this would require the construction of a reservoir to
contain about 170,000 gallons.
35.       The holding pens for both cattle and sheep are a model for any
slaughterhouse - well laid out and fully shaded. The race leading to the
stunning pen is however poorly designed, being far too wide to be functional.
Cattle turn back in the race, and in spite of electric prodders it requires
three time the usual number of staff to rope and drag the animals into the
stunning pen. Inevitable delays follow on the slaying and dressing floors.
The troubles can be overcome simply by narrowing the race to about 15 inches
at floor level and opening up to about 30 inches at the top, sufficient to
allow large horned cattle to pass. The stunning pen is the large revolving
wheel, ritual type, stunning is carried out by means of the captive bolt
pistol. To cope with the throughput envisaged for Kadero, the standard box
type stunning pen with drop bottom and rising side would be required. Electric
stunning would also speed up the rate of kill.
36.       The by-products plant consists of one small dryer/melter, a small
cenfrifuge, one small disintegrator and two tallow refining vessels. The
plant and building appear unbalanced in relation to the size and capacity of
the slaughterhouse. Although tripes, intestines, lungs, etc. are disposed
of as edible products, the machinery installed is far too small and will be
totally inadequate to cope with the bones when the boneless beef section comes
into production. The one boiler is surprisingly small and unlikely to produce
sufficient steam for the full requirements of Kadero. The building containing
the by-products plant and boiler is small in keeping with the size of the
machinery. To accommodate additional plant it would seem that eventually
the by-products building must be combined with the boiler section by removing
the dividing wall and construct a new and larger boiler house.



ANNEX I
Page 16
37.       Kadero began operations in October 1976, at slow pace in order
to train staff and eliminate teething troubles associated with a new plant.
Between start up and the year-end, production was limited to the slaughter and
chilling of some 1,439 goats which were dispatched to the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR). Production for the first two months of 1977 was:
Cattle                Sheep                 Goats
Slaughter  Export    Slaughter  Export    Slaughter   Export
January           281      231        1,888      1,830         713       709
February          160      128        6,082      5,985         448       445
Most of the carcasses were destined for Saudi Arabia and with a small amount
going to YAR. Average carcass weights for January were: cattle, 180 kg;
sheep, 20 kg; and goats, 11 kg. Yields, carcass weight to liveweight, are
not available, as the liveweight scales installed are not used for the daily
slaughter.
38.       Meat inspection records for January show the following:
Cattle         Sheep      Goats
Totally condemned                0.71%           0.79%      0.14%
Conditionally Passed             2.63%           2.22%      0.42%
Totally condemned offals include:
Cattle        Sheep       Goats
Livers                           4.98%          31.78%     10.38%
Lungs                            3.20%           1.17%      0.70%
Intestines                       1.07%          18.17%        -
Heads                            7.12%             -          -
Condemnations for cattle carcasses are comparable with the figures for
indigenous herds in East Africa but the condemnation for offals, particularly
livers appear to be low. Unlike Omdurdam, there is no insurance scheme
operating to compensate for condemnations. No figures were available for the
production of processed by-products from condemned materials or inedible
offals. The Kadero slaughterhouse is controlled and operated by the Animal
Resources Department, who have apparently introduced an element of grading for
export quality; consequently, the "conditionally passed" carcasses are di-
verted for sale on the local market. In January, 40 head of export grade were
also sold on the local market when the charter transport plane failed to
appear.
1/   Average carcass weights for January are:  cattle 180 kg, sheep 20 kg, and
goats 11 kgs. Yields, carcass weight to liveweight, are not available,
unfortunately the liveweight scales already installed are not used for the
dairy slaughter.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
S,r ict- feer, c1.argedl it Kadero rt( ctver slaughter, dressing and
chilling are: cattle ESd 6, sheep ESd 2.50, and goats ESd 1. The slaughter
house retains only feet, blood and condemned meat and offals. Charges are
'.evied for cold storage at the rate of ESd 5 per ton per day for carcasses
remaining after 24 hours. Up to the end of February only two merchants had
made use of the slaughterhouse facilities. Thereafter, a small group of
merchants responded to a Government request to supply 15,000 beef and 20,000
sheep carcasses to Egypt.
40.       Extensions to the buildings are already in progress, a large de-
boning department is under construction and additional cold rooms are planned.
When completed it is intended to supply the export market with selected
boneless cuts.  These will attract a premium price and should allow the
sub-standard cuts and remainder of the carcasses to be marketed locally at
lower than prevailing prices.  The development of the export trade in
carcass or boneless beef will have a marked impact on prices of beef and
offals to the low income groups of the Three Towns. Indeed at the time
wher exports reached their peak in 1974 the wholesale prices of offals
from the central slaughterhouse fell by about 50 percent.
41.       Export Quotas.  In 1974, the Government of Sudan imposed a ban
on all exports of cattle and sheep; the ban was lifted in October 1976, and
replaced by a quota on sheep exports only. The quota allowed exports equiv-
alent to 250,000 head of sheep; of these, 100,000 head could be exported live
by traders under special export permits,50,000 could be exported by the
"special projects" (fattening enterprises, etc.) and 100,000 could be exported
in the form of meat. The quota was restricted to sheep, as the high prices
offered in the Jeddah market made such exports an extremely profitable pro-
position; Government feared that without these controls, domestic sheep prices
would rise substantially, possibly putting mutton beyond the reach of many
urban consumers. Given the large size of the domestic cattle herd, and less
attractive export prices, Government had little fear that expanded cattle
exports would have a corresponding effect on domestic market prices. This
quota was a temporary regulation designed to test its effect on the domestic
market; it is now being reviewed by Government.
Hides and Skins
42.       Prices paid to butchers for hides and skins may vary from place to
place. In many towns hide and skin merchants will buy the hide or skin at
an advantageous price, before the animals are slaughtered. Other merchants
will finance the butcher operations and take hides and skins as interest.
Hides are usually bought "green", that is ex-slaughterhouse by weight; prices
vary from MSd 0.7 - 0.11 per kilo in a weight range of 15 to 27 kilos. Skins,
both sheep and goat, are bought by the piece at ESd 0.70 to ESd 1.25 per
piece. Sub-standard skins fetch ESd 0.25. These prices appear low in rela-
tion to world market prices which, however, are very sensitive and subject to
constant fluctuations. There is little accurate information regarding hide
and skin production, and consequently the above estimates are at best to be
viewed with caution.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
43.       It is estimated that over 50 percent of the hides produced in the
Sudan have been damaged by cuts and gouging due to poor flaying further
damage often has resulted from improper curing. The value of hides and skins
downgraded to seconds and thirds is only 50 percent and 35 percent respec-
tively of the first grade product. On a national basis the loss to the
economy is appreciable, involving as it does a considerable reduction in
possible foreign exchange from the export business. Improved flaying methods
using suitable tools followed by washing and immediate dry salting (using
adequate salt) would increase substantially the value of a considerable volume
of the hides and skins now produced.   The value of exported hides and skins
from 1970 to 1974 is shown below:
1970      1971        1972       1973        1974
---------------------tSd-----------------------
1,698     1,938       3,315      6,073       3,776
D. Future Development of the Livestock Marketing System
44.       The livestock industry is of significant importance to the Sudanese
economy, as it is one of the principal sources of food and employment for the
population as well as an important source of foreign exchange. The expansion
of total marketed offtake has been given high priority by the Sudanese Govern-
ment; such as expansion is of vital importance as it would:
(a) ease grazing pressure on the heavily overstocked
rangelands;
(b) increase the volume of meat available for the country's
growing urban population;
(c) allow a significant expansion of exports of livestock and
meat, thus providing the country with badly needed foreign
exchange; and
(d) permit the stratification of the livestock industry, thus
enabling the marketing of higher quality animals and animal
products.
45.       The weakness of the marketing system is perhaps one of the most
important constraints on the expansion of total marketed production. This
weakness is the product of several inter-related characteristics which include:
(a) the general absence of basic physical infrastructure;



ANNEX I
Page 19
(b) lack of organization and control of the trading
process;
(c) the excessive number of middlemen who participate
in almost every sale;
(d) the limited amount of capital available to the small
independent traders for purchase of animals and the long
delays involved in the return of capital to the traders,
both of which result in substantial numbers of animals
remaining unsold after every market day (see Table 2);
(e) the necessity of trekking the majority of animals
from the rural areas to the Omdurman market which results,
particularly in the dry season, in relatively high weight
losses and increased mortality.
The solution of these problems will require increased Government interven-
tion in the marketing system. Thus far, Government efforts have been focused
on the development of stockroutes through the provision of water, veterinary
services and sometimes feed. Although these efforts may well have helped
to extend the trekking season somewhat, the severe limitations of trekking
livestock over long distances drastically limits the improvement which can
be achieved along these lines. Likewise, efforts have been made to move
increased numbers of animals by rail from the west to Khartoum; however, these
efforts have been largely doomed by the poor quality of the rail service
(shortages of wagons, inordinate delays in obtaining wagons, and inefficient
service resulting in unacceptably long journeys). It is hoped that with the
creation of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Commission (LMMC) in 1976 (see
Annex 6), Government will be able to implement a comprehensive upgrading of
the entire marketing system.
46.       Two important areas will require immediate attention: first, the
required infrastructure must be provided in the local markets, and regulations
issued to facilitate and control the sale of animals; and secondly, the
transport of livestock from the producing areas to the Omdurman market must
be expedited through investments in improved transport services (rail, truck,
barge, etc.) These improvements would eliminate unnecessary confusion and
delays and reduce the number of middlemen operating in a market, thereby
encouraging producers to bring their animals into the market. At the same
time they would provide a faster capital turnover for the traders, thus
allowing them to re-enter the market sooner than would otherwise have been
possible. Overall it is expected that, together with the anticipated new
investments in the livestock sub-sector, they would result in a significant
expansion in total marketed production.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Number of Livestock by Province 1/
(Head)
Province                     Cattle        Sheep        Goats       Camels
Blue Nile                    899,558      1,079,000    594,499        37,787
White Nile                 1,563,568      2,207,686    657,336        77,877
El Gezira                    503,916      1,216,321  1,143,711      146,051
Khartoum                      56,871        296,965    429,969       13,740
Kassala                      642,883      1,589,532    925,009      567,949
Red Sea                       36,488        223,923  . 444,981        95,479
Nile                          43,717        272,488    263,030        59,058
Northern                      14,198        212,070    138,096      108,265
Upper Nile                 1,428,092      1,047,465    375,866         4,922
Junglei                    1,404,553        174,619    460,900         -
Eastern Equatoria            797,774        914,824    240,485        28,430
Western Equatoria                 229         1,269      20,055        -
Southern Kordofan          1,467,367        830,053    696,030        1,798
Northern Kordofan            937,127      2,470,580  1,683,647       851,587
Northern Darfur              907,081      1,409,531  1,193,613       226,103
Southern Darfur            2,735,360      1,232,024  1,117,220      142,083
El Buheyrat                  700,719        333,130    303,946        -
Bahr El Ghazal             1,227,707        718,238    604,099        -
Total               15,367,208    16,229,718 11,292,492   2,361,129
1/ Estimates based on an aerial survey and ground investigations carried
out by Murray Watson (consultant to the Sudan Government).



ANNEX 1
Figure 1.1
MARKETING FLOWS OF LIVESTOCK IN PRODUCING AREAS
PRODUCER
GUARANTOR -K->                                            ER
SUB-AGENT'- -7L                O              BUTCHER
CIY  EOLECAL MERCHAT 
CITY MERCHANT/EXPORTER                              WHOLESALE BUTCHER



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock Transport
A. Railway Transport
Existing Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) Service
1.        During the last decade, SRC's livestock transport service has
proven increasingly unreliable and inefficient (considerably more inefficient
in fact than SRC's overall service). One of the main reasons for this poor
performance is that SRC has been required by Government to carry livestock
at rates below the actual cost of transport; this has meant that it prefers
to use its wagons to transport commodities such as groundnuts rather than
livestock. Under this system SRC has no incentive to use the limited
number of livestock   wagons in its fleet for livestock transport; these
wagons consequently are mainly used to carry more lucrative items. This,
combined with the fact that the available number of livestock wagons is
totally inadequate for the existing demand, has created an extreme (if
somewhat artificial) shortage of wagons. These shortages have discouraged
most traders from even attempting to ship their livestock by rail.
2.        SRC livestock transport service (as with its overall operations) has
also been hampered by poor maintenance procedures, leading to a very poor
history of reliability for locomotives. Locomotive maintenance problems have
proven particularly difficult to resolve, and have had the most serious effect
on the railroad's overall operating efficiency.  When changing over from steam
traction to diesel, SRC adapted the relatively simple maintenance procedures
of steam locomotives for use in maintaining its diesel fleet; when these
proved totally unsuited to the more complex requirements of the diesel en-
gines, the inevitable result was an unacceptably low locomotive availability
and many lost train hours due to locomotive breakdowns on the line. The
availability of locomotives averaged 64% in 1975/76, as compared with the
80% availability percentage considered acceptable under Sudanese conditions.
Train delays due to locomotive failure for the period 1975/76 was an aver-
age of nine hours per train on the line between Sennar and Nyala; however,
many of these delays were actually far longer, particularly on the more re-
mote sections of the network.
3.        These two interrelated problems have contributed to the tremendous
decline in the numbers of livestock transported by rail; present estimates
show that numbers carried dropped from 580,000 head in 1970/71 to 387,000
head in 1973/74. This decrease continued over the life of the export ban
(which virtually halted the Khartoum - Port Sudan livestock traffic). Traders
increasingly preferred to trek their animals rather than expose them to the
vagaries of the present service, where it is impossible to guarantee either
how long it will take to ship stock between two points or in what condition
they will arrive.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The Fourth Railway Project (IDA) will eventually help to improve
SRC's overall operating efficiency; particular attention will be paid to
improved locomotive availability and upgraded maintenance operations. How-
ever, given the present situation, these improvements will take some time to
make themselves felt. Moreover, any effort to upgrade livestock transport
within the present system would necessarily have to include significant addi-
tional investments in locomotives and livestock wagons, as existing equipment
is clearly unable to handle an expansion in the present volume of traffic. As
the SRC's overall operating efficiency can offer only limited guarantees of
reliability, it is clearly essential that some type of special scheduled ser-
vice be offered in order to ensure the efficiency and reliability of service
necessary to attract an expanded volume of trade and to remove the obstacles
to the smooth functioning of the main surface export channel via Port Sudan to
the Saudi Arabian market. Presently the transport of live animals from
Khartoum to Jeddah may take as much as 12 days due to: (i) an initial dlelay in
the provision of wagons at Khartoum (3-5 days); (ii) waiting for ship space at
Port Sudan for up to one week, (because of the unscheduled arrival of trains,
it is impossible for the special livestock ships to schedule their services).
A reasonable time-frame for a well organized transport service from Khartoum
to Jeddah would be in the order of 3-5 days; this would ensure the arrival of
animals in good condition and would give traders the guarantee of reliability
necessary for them to enter into regular supply contracts.
LMMC Block Train Service
5.        The Project would support the establishment of a livestock block
train service between Nyala and Khartoum and between Khartoum and Port Sudan.
These block trains would be organized by LMMC and SRC and operated by SRC;
they would be exclusively devoted to the transport of livestock. Each train
would be drawn by two locomotives (para 8), and would be comprised of up to
27 livestock wagons, a guard van and a brake van. The livestock wagons would
be of two types - double-deck sheep wagons (procured under the Project to be
used exclusively by the block trains), and single-deck cattle wagons (leased
from SRC in the required numbers). The exact make-up of each train and its
capacity utilization would vary significantly from one season to the next
according to demand (which would depend on the comparative costs and effi-
ciency of trekking the stock). Train schedules and capacity would be ad-
justed regularly to most efficiently meet the projected demand.
6.        Trains would be operated by SRC personnel, but their scheduling,
loading and unloading would be the responsibility of the LMMC Transport
Office located at LMMC headquarters in Khartoum. This office, under an in-
ternationally recruited Transport Officer, would coordinate all movements
with the SRC according to a tentative schedule established every six months;
day-to-day traffic would be supervised through direct contact (by radio) be-
tween LMMC's headquarters and the Project Railway Holding Yards (RHY) and
Railway Transit Yards (RTY). Passages would be booked by the owner (itrader)
through LMMC's Provincial Livestock Marketing Officers or directly at the
RHY's or RTY's from which the animals were to be loaded. Request for



ANNEX 2
Page 3
transport would be passed to the Transport Office which would reserve space
and confirm date of loading. In preparation for transport the animals would
be inspected and vaccinated by veterinary assistants. From this point on all
livestock would be subject to strict quarantine regulations (which would be
enforced by district veterinary staff). All animals would be held outside the
loading areas for five days to ensure that the vaccinations had taken; they
would then be moved into the LMMC holding pens to await the next train depar-
ture. It is estimated that on arrival in Khartoum the animals would have
served nearly half of their required quarantine (thus reducing the time spent
in Khartoum before export and the risk of disease outbreaks in that area).
During the quarantine the owner/trader or herdsmen accompanying the animals
would be responsible for their feeding; water would be provided by the LMMC.
7.        Projected Traffic.  Projections of the estimated numbers of animals
or carloads to be handled by the LMMC block trains are given in Tables 1 and
2. The block train service would be initiated in Project Year 3, and would
build gradually over four years. In order to provide service which would be
attractive to users, train service from all stations (except for Aweil and
Meiram, where due to the limited numbers expected the service has been based
on only 20 trains during the year) was planned for a minimum of one de-
parture per week.  The length of passing loops (sidings) on certain sections
of the SRC lines limits the train length to 27 livestock cars plus two vans
and locomotives. When volumes are too high for a weekly 27-car train (such
as at El Obeid during the peak months), additional trains would be scheduled.
En developing traffic estimates, the build-up of demand for block train
service was projected on a conservative basis. However, it is expected that
in Years 5 and 6 demand for transport will exceed the capacity of the block
trains. This excess would be met by regular SRC livestock trains. It is
expected that SRC would continue serving stations on the western line not
serviced by the LMMC block trains, and would also continue to transport
livestock between Khartoum and Port Sudan. The block trains would essentially
handle incremental traffic from surplus areas, and would only carry animals
under quarantine.
8.        Type of Locomotives Required.  Grade and track limitations do not
permit operation of a single type of locomotive over all SRC routes to be
used by the block trains. West of Babanusa 50 lb rail limits the use of this
line to light locomotives (maximum load per axle to 13.5 tons) while on the
route between Khartoum and Port Sudan, steep grades on certain sections of
the line require larger locomotives for fully loaded trains. These two re-
strictions require either that LMHC use two different types of locomotives
or use two of the lighter weight units on a train on at least certain seg-
ments of the railroad. Several considerations dictated the recommendation
that each of the LMMC block trains be hauled by two locomotives on all
sections of the planned routes; the most important of these were:
(a) the need for reliability in meeting train schedules,
both in order to convince potential customers of



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the benefits of the service and to keep mortality,
weight losses etc. to a minimum on the long journey
from the west;
(b)  the need to be able to operate the block trains inde-
pendently, since SRC at present would not be able to
provide replacement engines in the case of a breakdown
without unacceptably long delays;
(c)  the fact that in the case of breakdown of one of the
lighter engines, the second engine would be able to con-
tinue moving the train (except on the Haiya-Port Sudan
section) until a replacement engine from Sennar could
meet the train.
The need for reliability of service was an important consideration in the re-
commendation for the establishment of the block train service. Livestock,
unlike other types of freight, cannot be allowed to stand unattended for
long periods of time far from any station while train crews endeavor to find
a substitute locomotive. With double-headed trains, the failure of one loco-
motive would still allow the train to be moved by the remaining engine.
Agreement would be reached with SRC that no locomotive could be detached
from a LMMC block train. In an emergency, a disabled train blocking the
track would be moved to the nearst siding to allow the block train to pass.
9.        On this basis it was recommended that the locomotive provided for
the block trains be 1,600 hp with 6 axles, and with a maximum axle-load of
13.5 tons. As far as possible efforts would be made to purchase a type of
locomotive already being used by SRC. All locomotives and wagons purchased
under the Project would be reserved solely for the use of LMMC; however,
should it appear that this equipment would not be fully employed in the early
Project years, LMMC would allow SRC to use the equipment for a specified
period under agreed conditions.
10.       Livestock Wagons.  All livestock wagons purchased for LMMC would
be double-deck sheep wagons.  These wagons would allow greater transport
economy, since they would be able to haul double the number of sheep (the
animal for which transport demand is the greatest) than could be carried
in the single deck wagons now used by SRC. Since the carrying capacity of
the train is limited by its maximum length (para 7), the additional number
of animals per wagon would substantially reduce the transport cost per
animal (and hence the LMMC transport charge). SRC at the present time has
only three double-deck wagons; experience gained in the use of these wagons
will be used in the design of the double-deck wagons to be purchased under
the Project. At present, height constraints would not allow cattle to be



ANNEX 2
Page 5
transported in double-deck wagons, and therefore single deck wagons would
also be required for the block trains. LMMC would require a maximum of 54
such wagons at any one time, and SRC should be able to meet this demand
from its existing fleet. It was agreed during appraisal that SRC would
construct at its workshop at Atbara an experimental double deck wagon de-
signed to carry cattle on the lower deck-and small stock on the top deck.
If such a design proves successful, this type of wagon would eventually be-
come the preferred type in the future.  There are however too many unre-
solved issues to permit the provision of such wagons under the Project.
11.       Block Train Schedules.  A study was made to determine the numbers
of locomotives and wagons needed to move the expected volume of livestock.
Operation of a fleet of wagons and locomotives was simulated. Trial sche-
dules were devised which are considered within the ability of SRC to meet
in all but the most extreme cases. Time was built into these schedules to
cover loading, enroute stops to pick up additional carloads or to feed and
water animals, and the servicing of the locomotives. At the end of each
round trip, time was added to allow for cleaning the wagons.
12.       It was found that four trains would be required to handle the
expected traffic. A brief description of the traffic handled and operations
of the four trains in Year 6 is given below: I/
Train A. Would operate 60 round trips per year between
Khartoum and Port Sudan. During certain peak
periods this train would also be required to
make occasional trips between El Obeid (or Er
Rahad) and Khartoum.
Train B. Would operate 60 round trips per year between El
Obeid and Khartoum. Every second or third week
the empty train on its westbound trip would leave
part of its empty cars at Er Rahad and continue
on to Aweil. This train would then bring animals
from Aweil and Meiram back to the railway transit
yard at Er Rahad. While these animals were rest-
ing at Er Rahad the train would run to El Obeid
and return with animals loaded there; leaving Er
Rahad, the train would then carry animals from
Aweil, Meiram and El Obeid to Khartoum.
1/   The movements from Kosti are fairly small and would be heaviest during
the third quarter when quantities from other origins are down in num-
ber. There would be two to four trains passing this station weekly,
and this traffic has not been allocated to a specific train. The wagon
requirements for Kosti have been based on a one-week turnaround time,
although in some cases it may be possible to obtain two round-trips
per week from wagons on the Kosti to Khartoum service.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Train C.  Would operate weekly between Nyala and Khartoum
with an enroute rest stop at one of the three
railway transit yards (Er Rahad, Kosti or Sennar).
Train D.  Would operate weekly between Ed Da'ein and
Khartoum with an enroute rest stop at one of
the three railway transit yeards. This train
would be required only during the peak months of
November, December, January, February and March.
During the remainder of the year, Train C would
have sufficient capacity to pick up animals at
Ed Da'ein and Babanusa. Train D would consist
solely of single-deck livestock wagons leased
from SRC, as it was not considered economic to
purchase additional double-deck cars for use in
such a restricted period.
13.       During the third year of the Project (first year of block train
service), only three trains would be required on a year round basis. The
fourth train would be required for two months in the fourth year of the
project (second year of service), three months in the fifth year, and five
months in the sixth year. Each of these trains would require two locomlotives,
an additional two would be required in stand-by service and for maintenance
purposes. Ten locomotives would therefore be required for the Project. The
two locomotives allocated to Train D would be available for use by the SRC when
they are not needed by LMMC; the contract between SRC and LMMC should have
a provision that SRC could use these locomotives in its own service. The
lease should specify that these locomotives would be returned to LMMC service
upon reasonable notice (not less than 15 days).
14.       An operating scheme, based on the projected demand, was devised in
order to determine Project equipment requirements and operating costs. It
should not be regarded as the unique or optimal solution. The final schedule
would be worked out by LMMC's Transport Officer in cooperation with SRC
staff. The trial schedules were based on the following considerations:
(a) Average speed west of Rahad (light rail) and east of
Haiya (heavy grades and congestion) of 25 km per
hour loaded, 20 km per hour empty. On all other routes
speeds of 35 km/hr (loaded) and 30 km/hr (empty) were
used.
(b) Additional time was added enroute for the following items:
(i) to set out or pick up wagons without loading or
unloading animals - 1 hour;
(ii) to load or unload animals - 3 hours;



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(iii) trains from Babanusa and stations west would
make one stop at a railway transit yard to
unload, feed, water, rest and reload animals
unto the same wagons - 8 hours; 1/ and
(iv) wagon cleaning at the end of trip - 20 hours
(includes time waiting for daybreak).
(c) Additional slack time to compensate for possible delays:
(i) from stations west of Er Rahad to Khartoum -
6 hours; and
(ii) between all other stations - 3 hours.
Using the criteria above, the following turn-around times were estimated:
Calculated   Allowed 2/
(hours)       (days)
Nyala - Khartoum                       146           7
Ed Da'ein - Khartoum                   128          6
Aweil - Er Rahad                        74           4
Khartoum - Port Sudan                   72           4
El Obeid - Khartoum                     72          3
In most cases a train would have one or more additional days lay-over before
further use (as for example: Train D will make only one round trip every 168
hour week on a schedule that can be completed in 126 hours). These schedules
allow time at all stations enroute for picking up animals or setting out empty
wagons. In many cases stops would not be made at the intermediate railway
holding yards. For example, during the period of the year that Train D is
operating, it is contemplated that Train C would load at Nyala and operate
through to Khartoum with a stop at a transit yard to rest animals enroute,
and stops at Babanusa and Sennar to service the locomotive.
1/   It was assumed that animals from stations beyond Er Rahad would have
one eight hour rest stop enroute at one of the railway transit yards.
From the standpoint of overall schedules it makes little difference
whether this is done at Er Rahad, Kosti or Sennar, as the total running
plus stopping time is the same.
2/   For scheduling repeated loadings of the same wagons, the already generous
round-trip cycle times were increased to the next whole day (24 hours)
figure.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Project Investment
15.       The four block trains would req0re 10 locomotives, 69 double-deck
sheep wagons, 54 single-deck cattle wagons and 9 vans. The number of wagons
required in service, for maintenance, and to provide for unforeseen peaks in
the loadings is shown below. Only the single-deck wagons actually required
are included in the tabulation; no allowance has been made for maintenance,
as it is expected that the lease terms will require SRC to provide serviceable
wagons (and to replace those that are not fit for service). A summary of
equipment required for the Project is given below:
Type of Equipment             Source             Number
Locomotives:  In service    Purchased new          8
Maintenance                         2
Total                              10
Double-deck
Wagons:     In service    Purchased new         60
Maintenance                         3
Variations
in loadings                       6
Total                              69
Single-deck
Wagons:     In service    Leased from SRC    48
Variations
in loadings                       6
Total                              54
Vans:          In service    Purchased new         8
Maintenance                         1
Total                               9
Locomotives and double-deck wagons would be procured through international
competitive bidding. Single-deck wagons would be leased from the SRC. Vans
would be built in the SRC workshop.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
16.       Total investment costs are:
LSd
10 locomotives                           3,360,000
69 double-deck wagons                    1,228,000
9 vans                                    162,000
spare parts                             378,000
Total                             5.128,000
The total investment cost if trains were drawn by only one engine would be ESd
4,892,000. Estimates of f.o.b. prices for rolling stock were obtained from
wagon and locomotive builders; freight costs and Sudanese custom duties were
added to determine the total investment required. The single-deck wagons
would be leased by LMMC from SRC's fleet. The majority of SRC's livestock
wagons are between 10 and 19 years old. It is assumed that these wagons have
a present value of ESd 5,000 and a remaining life of ten years, which implies
a rental charge of ESd 63 per wagon per month.
17.       Purchase of rolling stock can be done in one batch or spread out
through the Project period. In view of the small size of Project requirements
(relative to normal railway wagon and locomotive orders), a single purchase
is recommended. Based on information supplied from builders, ESd 101,000
(US$250,000) would be added to locomotive costs and ESd 61,000 (US$150,000)
would be added to wagon costs if the order were split in two equal parts.
Additional amounts would have to be paid if the order were to be split into
three or four parts. SRC at the present time has a major problem in the
number of locomotive types they have in their fleet. Splitting the order
might incur a risk that the remaining part of the order might be cancelled or
changed. Finally, the acquisition of all the equipment during an early stage
would give LMMC additional flexibility during its start-up period, should
estimates of demand prove too conservative.
Operating Costs (Appendix 1)
18.       The operating costs for the LMMC trains were estimated using
existing SRC costs as published in their financial statement for 1975/76.
The applicability of these estimates will depend upon the payment terms set
out in the contract between SRC and LMMC. The costs used herein represent
the most likely estimates.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Basis of
Annual Cost ESd   Cost Allocation
Locomotive maintenance        404,000       Locomotive km
Wagon maintenance              49,300       Wagon months
Fuel and lubricants           188,300       Gross ton km
Wages                          20,G00       Train hours
Track maintenance             148,600       Gross ton km
Total   810,200
Actual operating costs to be paid by LMMC would be based on separate accounts
kept for this purpose by SRC. The operating cost for single-headed trains
would be ESd 642,700 (Appendix 1). While these are somewhat lower than the
above estimates, it is believed that the added expense is well -justifltd by
the improved reliability and efficiency of the double-headed trains.
Rates
19.       The rate LMMC has to pay for livestock transport should be
based upon SRC's actual cost for the service. The costs are of two kinds:
(a) capital cost; and (b) operating cost. The rate should consequently
be of two kinds, one fixed portion reflecting SRC's capital cost plus
interest, and one variable portion reflecting SRC's direct cost. To the
direct cost should be added overhead and profit.
20.       The fixed portion of the rate should be based upon the economic
life of the locomotives (20 years) and the wagons (25 years). The interest
rate would be 8.5%. The variable portion should cover SRC's direct costs.
For this reaon SRC has to keep separate accounts of the costs of transport of
the Project. The rate should be paid monthly in advance and then reviewed at
regular intervals. For the review LMMC should have access to SRC's accounts.
B. Highway Transport
21.       The growth of the network of hard-surfaced roads and a feedlot
industry is likely to increase the derand for transport of live animals in
the Khartoum-Wad Medani-Gaderef area. Most of the need will probably be
met by the private sector. At the present time lorry owners can engage
in for-hire transport of goods between any points in the Sudan without obtain-
ing any type of route certificate. Although in the past the trucking industry
has been restricted by the poor nature of the road system, as the roads are
extended, private operators can be expected to meet the transport needs of
the area.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
22.       The two lorry-trailer combinations included in LNMC headquarters
would provide, on a demonstration basis, shuttle service in the Khartoum
area and over the roads between Gedaref, Sennar, Wad Medani and Khartoum.
The actual distance travelled will depend on the length of run, whether
or not they are used at night, loading time constraint, etc. The operation
of these lorries by LMMC would be carried out on an experimental basis, and
expansion is not envisioned. LMMC pricing for this service should be on a
commercial basis, and the LMMC should not plan on expanding the operation
beyond the life of the equipment.
23.       At Port Sudan.  Animals are trekked through the city from the
quarantine yard to the port. This trek is unacceptable for quarantined
animals since they have contact with other animals and humans in the
congested city area. Ships with a capacity of 2,500 sheep are loaded in 8
hours, or an average rate of 312 sheep per hour; cattle are loaded at the
rate of 20 head per hour. In order to avoid delays it is necessary for a
shuttle transport system to have the capacity to bring at least 312 sheep
or 20 cattle each hour to the port. If the vehicles used to supply the
transport can complete a round trip in 2 hours and 40 minutes (1 hour each
way in transit, 20 minutes loading, 20 minutes unloading) then the vehicles
used must have a carrying capacity corresponding to the animals loaded into
ships in 2 hours and 40 minutes (834 sheep or 53 cattle).
24.       The Project would therefore include provision for the purchase
of two tractor-trailer combinations (plus two spare trailers) to haul
livestock from the quarantine yards to the port. Single deck trailers
would be used for both cattle and sheep; they would be augmented by double
deck trailers designed to haul sheep only.
25.       A Port Project has been appraised by IDA.  This Project would
provide a Ro-Ro berth at the south end of the port. Since such a.berth
would change livestock loading from a sling to a walk-on operation, a
livestock holding facility would be constructed in the port area near the
Ro-Ro berth. The provision of walk-on facilities would change the basic
considerations which led to the trailer component, since loading times
would be much less and the railroad could be used to transport animals from
the Port Sudan quarantine yard; furthermore, animals quarantined in the
block trains would be unloaded in the port holding yards directly, without
stopping at the quarantine yard. The holdings pens would be constructed
under the Port Project. The truck method of livestock transportation
would be retained for two reasons, however; first the livestock facilities
within the port would not be completed as soon as needed by LMMC, and
secondly the increase in livestock traffic within the port would require
the additional capacity made possible by the tractor-trailers.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
C. River Transport
26.       The eventual establishment of scheduled transport of livestock
by barge on the White and Blue Nile and the lower part of the Bahr El
Ghazal would be most important to achieve proper economic exploitation of
the large surplus of cattle in Jonglei Province and the southern part of
the Upper Nile Province. The River Transport Corporation (RTC) is respon-
sible for providing passenger and freight service along the major rivers in
Sudan. The majority of freight arrives by rail in Kosti where it then
moves on barges upstream along the White Nile to Malakal and Juba. There
is also a less important wet-season operation on the Blue Nile upstream
from Singa to Er Roseires. There is always empty space on the return
movement to Kosti. This space could be used for the transport of livestock
into Kosti where it could connect with LMMC livestock block trains.
27.       The RTC fleet consists of almost 200 barges.  These barges range
in condition from fairly good to many which appear to be beyond repair.
Some are converted passenger vessels with flat decks covered by a roof.
Other are more modern barges that require the use of a crane to lift
freight into or out of the hold. The exact make-up of barge tows is
determined by traffic, which moves predominantly upstream. Some of the
barges can be used for animals while others are completely unsuited to this
traffic. Vessels designed specially for livestock might be placed on this
run and operated on schedules to suit the livestock traffic and timed to
connect with trains at Kosti. During Project implementation LMMC would
work closely with the RTC to identify the potential movements and attempt
to have a more regular schedule followed with barges that are suited to
handling animals.
D. Ocean Shipping
28.       With improvements in the livestock transport within Sudan greater
exports of live animnals can be expected in the short and medium term.
Saudi Arabia is currently the largest buyer of livestock from Sudan, and
should continue in this role for the near future. Travel time is only
eight hours by ship across the Red Sea from Port Sudan, and there are
several private operators who provide ship service for animals railed into
Port Sudan. Regular arrivals of animals by train would provide the shipping
companies with an incentive to have their ships offer scheduled services.
At the present time the port is subject to congestion but this is allegedly
not a problem to scheduling of livestock movements, as ships handling
livestock have priority. The improvement in loading facilities and the
provision of efficient transport between the quarantine yards and the port
would be major steps in resolving the present delays.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
E. Air Shipments
29.       Air shipments of live animals have taken place between Khartoum
and the Near East, predominantly to Jeddah. Transport cost is about three
times that of the current rail-sea combination. Air shipment is attractive in
that it can offer immediate service between two points; as there is a
substantial price difference in value of live sheep in the two locations, air
shipment thus permits traders to take advantage of price spot markets.
Scheduled improvements of block train service and a more regular sea operation
would likely reduce the demand for air transport, however.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Basic Assumption Used in the Calculation of
Railway Operating Costs
(in ESd)
Locomotive Maintenance
Base = cost per locomotive km
Total 1976 cost excluding superintendence and depreciation = 4,004,425
Total locomotive km = 8,283,000
Cost per km = 0.483451
Cost per year = 0.483451 x 781,120 = 377,633 - for double headed trains
Cost per year = 0.483451 x 485,000 = 234,475 - for single headed trains
Cost increase from 1975 to 1976 = 4.6%
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 404,000 - double heading
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 251,000 - single heading
Wagon Maintenance
Base = cost per wagon month
Total cost 1976 excluding superintendence and depreciation = 3,107,207
Total number of wagons and coaches = 7,367
Cost per wagon and month = 35.15
Double deck wagon months = 69 x 12             =   828
Single deck wagon months = 27 x 12 + 27 x 5 =   359
Vans wagon months         =  6 x 12 + 2  x 5 =    82
Total wagon months        =                      1,269
Cost per year =  1,269 x 35.15                 = 44,605 - double heading
Cost per year = (1,269 + 27 x 12) x 35.15   = 55,994 - single heading
Cost increase from 1975 to 1976 = 6.7%
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 49,333 - double heading
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 62,863 - single heading
Fuel and Lubricants
Base = cost per gross ton-km
Total 1976 cost = 4,152,862
Total gross ton-km = 5,831,875,890
Cost per 1,000 gross ton-km = 0.7221
Total annual cost for LMMC trains = 0.7221 x 240,399.260 = 171,188 -
doubling heading
Total annual cost for LMMC trains = 0.7221 x 216,561.6 = 156,379 -
single heading
Estimated cost increase = 10%



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 188,307 - double heading
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 172,017 - single heading
Wages
Base = cost per train hours
Cost per train hour in 1976 (according to SRC) = ESd 1
Trips               Hours per             Hours
To Rahad               No.               Round Trips            Total
From:  Nyala           52                    74                 3,848
Ed Da'ein      18                    61                  1,098
Aweil          20                    76                  1,520
To Khartoum
From:  El Obeid        60                    53                 3,180
Er Rahad       76                    47                  3,572
To Port Sudan
From:  Khartoum        60                    60                 3,600
Subtotal             16,818
Add 10% for delays    1,682
Total train hours    18,500
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 20,000 - double heading
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 23,000 - single heading
Track Maintenance
Base = cost per gross ton-km
Total cost 1976 = 3,247,919
Total gross ton-km = 5,831,875,890
Cost per 1,000 gross ton-km = 0.5569
Cost per year = 0.5569 x 240,399,260 = 133,878 - double heading
Cost  per year = 0.5569 x 216,561.6 = 120,603 - single heading
Cost increase from 1975 to 1976 = 11%
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 148,600 - double heading
Estimated annual cost February 1978 = 133,900 - single heading



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 3
Summary of Operating Cost
Double Heading       Single Heading
LSd                  ISd
Locomotive maintenance                  404,000              251,000
Wagon maintenance                        49,300               62,800
Fuel and lubricants                     188,300              172,000
Wages                                    20,000               23,000
Track maintenance                       148,600              133,900
Total                             810,200              642,700
Difference                      + 167,500
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 2
SUDAN                                            Table 1
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
ProJection of Livestock Traffic Railed by EMMC
Actual Estimated Traffic and Fu1l Capacity
(Number of Animals)
Project Year
------------------------------- Years ----------------------------
1            2             3             4             5             6               7 - 22
SHEEP I/
Full Capacity
From                      To
Western Provinces 21    Khartoum                        -            -          217,000      259,000      345,000      432,000             540,000
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                     -            -          106,000      127,000      170,000      212,000             267,oo0
Total FPll Capacity                                                   323,000      386,000      515,000       644,000            807,000
Actual Estimated Traffic
From                      To
Western Provinces 2/    Khartoum                        -                       130,000      181,000      276,000       367,000            486,000
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                     -            -           64,000       89,000      136,000       180,000            240.000
Total Actual Estinated Traffic                -             -          194,000     270,000      412,000       547,000            726,000
Unused Capacity                                         -            -          129,000      116,000     103,000        97 000              81,000
CATTLE 3/
Ful   Capacitv
Prom                      To
Western Provinces 4/   Khartoum                         -            -           19,000       22,000       31,000       38,000              48.000
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                     -            -            5,000        6,000        7,000       9,000               i2,000
Total FPll Capacity                                                     24,000      28,000       38,000       47,000              60,000
Acteal Estimated Traffic
From                      To
Western Provinces 4/    Khartoum                        -            -           11,000       16,000       24,000      32,000              43.000
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                     -            -            3,000        4,000        6,000       8,000               11,000
Total Actual Estimated Traffic                                          14,000      20,000       30,000       40,000              54 000
Unused Capacity                                         -            -           10.000        8,000        8,000       7,000                6,000
1/   200 sheep per car load
2/   From the following stations:  Meiram, Nyala,
Ed Dacein, Babanusa, El Obeid, Kosti
3!   25 cattle per car load
4/   From the following stations: Meiram, Nyala,
Ed Dacein, Baanusa, El Obeid Kosti. A.eil
August lI, 1977



SUDAN
ANNEX 2
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT                                        Table 2
Project of Livestock Traffic Railed by LMMC
Wagons Loaded from Each Station
Project Year
Distance           -         ----------    Years ------------------
km.              1              2             3             4            5             6            7 - 22
CARLOADS OF SHEEP
From                To
Meiram                   Khartoum                     1.115               -             -            14             18           28           36               80
Nyala                       "                         1,318               -             -           126            178          270          360             500
Ed Da'ein                   "                         1,168               -             -            64             90          136          180             260
Babanusa                    "                           983               -             -            64             90          136          180             250
El Obeid                    "                           689               -             -           286           400           610          810           1,042
Kosti                       "                           382               -             -            94            130          202          270              300
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                     787               -             -           318           444           678          900           1,200
Total Carloads of Sheep                                                                         966         1,350        2,060        2,736            3,632
CARLOADS OF CATTLE
From                To
Meiram                   Khartoum                     1,115               -             -            10             14           22           28               70
Nyala                       "                         1,318               -             -           110            156          238          316             406
Ed Dacein                   "                         1,168               -             -            46             66          100          132             174
Babanusa                    "                           983               -             -            44             62           94          126             166
El Obeid                    "                           689               -             -           150            210          320          426             564
Kosti                                                    382              -             -            26             38           58           78              104
Aweil                                                 1, 292              -             -            68             94          142          190              240
Khartoum                 Port Sudan                      787              -             -           112            156          240          318              422
Total Carloads of Cattle                                                                        566           796        1.214        1,614            2,146
Loaded Sheep Wagon  x  km  1'                                                                   803,000    1,123,000   1,711,000   2,271,000           3.075,000
Loaded Cattle Wagon x km 1/                                                                     544,000       763,000   1,162 000   1,545.000          2,050,000
Total Loaded Wagon xakm I/                                                                    1,347,000    1,886.000   2,873 000   3,816,000           5 125 000
1/ Total number of cars multiplied by distance of each run,
August 11, 1977



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT                                        ANNEX 2
Table 3
Projected Seasonality of LMMC Rail Traffic
(Quarterly Percentages from Each Station)
First Quarter        Second Quarter         Third Quarter         Fourth Quarter    Total
Calendar Year
SHEEP
From                   To
Meir-n               Khartoum                                 I                       1                     -                     -                    2
Nyala                     "                                   6                       3                     3                     8                   20
Ed DaOein                 "                                   3                       1                     2                     4                   10
El Obeid                                                     14                       6                    14                    10                  44
Babanusa                  "                                   3                       2                     1                     4                   10
Kosti                                                         3                        1                    6                     4                   14
Total Sheep from Western Provinces                         30                      14                    26                    30                 100
Khartoum             Port Sudan                              30                      20                    15                    35                  100
CATTLE
From                    To
Meiram               Khartoum                                 2                        1                    -                     -                    3
Nyala                     "                                   9                        7                    4                     5                   25
Ed Da'ein                 "                                   3                        3                    2                     2                   10
El Obeid                  "                                  11                      11                     5                     7                  34
Babanusa                  '                                   4                       3                     1                     2                   10
Kosti                      '2                                                          1                    1                     1                    5
Aweil                     "                                   4                       4                     2                     3                   13
Total Cattle from Western Provinces                        35                      30                    15                    20                 100
Khartoum             Port Sudan                              25                      35                    15                    25                  100
surce:  1972-74  actual seasonality pattern and mission estimates
August 11, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Project Market and Transport Infrastructure
A. Market Infrastructure
General
1.        The Project would support the development of the Sudan's livestock
market system through the establishment and/or improvement of 30 primary
markets, 11 secondary markets and 2 terminal markets. This development
would be carried out by the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC),
which would set up a network of field officers to supervise the operation of
the markets (see Annex 6). The LMMC field service would be organized around
12 Provincial Livestock Marketing Offices - one in each of 11 livestock
production areas and one in Khartoum; these offices would be headed by a
Provincial Livestock Marketing Officer (PLMO), who would be responsible to
LMMC's Director of Domestic Markets. Each office would have a total staff
of eight persons, except for the three most important centers (Nyala, El Obeid
and Babanusa), where an Assistant Livestock Marketing Officer would also be
posted. These staff would oversee the administration of all markets under
their jurisdiction, supervise the collection of market fees, and organize
the collection of data on the movement and marketing of livestock. In addi-
tion to the 12 field offices, permanent LMMC staff would be stationed
at the two terminal markets and at each of the secondary markets to be
established under the Project. Finally six mobile marketing teams would be
set up to supervise the operation of the primary markets under their juris-
diction. It is expected that the improved market facilities and the LMMC
field staff would allow LMMC to reorganize and rationalize the existing
market operations. It is expected that, over the Project period, improved
marketing procedures would result in an increasing percentage of marketed
offtake moving through the official markets, as both producers and traders
become convinced of the convenience and financial benefits of utilizing these
facilities.
2.        Project Investment.  A minimum of infrastructure would be provided
at 30 primary markets which presently have no facilities of any kind. The
market area would be enclosed by a thorn fence; a sales ring would be estab-
lished inside this area which would be reached through a race with a con-
necting gate. No provision would be made for holding pens, a traders stand
or offices. Eleven secondary markets would be improved under the Project.
Where possible, these markets would be constructed on the same site as the
existing market, although in the majority of cases the markets would have to
be moved to a new location in order to obtain the necessary space and suf-
ficient water for the increased number of livestock expected to utilize these



ANNEX 3
Page 2
facilities. Basically, the market would consist of a large fenced area, with
separate sections for sales of cattle and small animals (sheep and goats)
respectively. On entering the market, the stock would be placed in sorting
sheds, where they would be held until ready for sale. They would then move
through a race, and into the sales ring. From the sales ring the animals
would pass along a vaccination crush into holding pens for buyers' stock;
unsold animals would leave the ring by a separate exit.  The market would also
be provided with offices, a covered stand for buyers and water tanks. The
design of a typical secondary market is illustrated in the accompanying chart.
Terminal markets would be established at two locations near the Three Towns,
i.e. at Soba and near Khartoum. In general, both markets would be laid out
along the same lines as the secondary markets; the main difference would be in
the area reserved for small stock, where holding pens only would be provided
as it was not believed feasible to auction the large numbers of sheep and
goats moving through the market on a given day. The market outside Khartoum
would be by far the larger of the two; it would be able to handle about 480
cattle and 3,000 small stock daily, as compared to 180 cattle and 1,500 small
stock daily for the Soba market.
Design and Standards
3.        All market structures would be based on the same general design, so
that after the initial construction phase further construction would be
repetitive, thus contributing to the efficiency of the operation and lower-
ing overall costs. The designs are of course only preliminary, and during
Project implementation some changes could be expected.
Buildings
4.        The buildings for the most part would be constructed to standards
and designs in common use by all agencies of the Sudanese Government. The
residences would be the regular houses furnished to middle and junior grade
civil servants. Housing would be provided to certain market staff in those
small towns where housing would not be available. Personnel earning ESd 1,601
to ESd 2,999 would be entitled to a middle grade house (T-2), which has two
bedrooms. The junior grade house (T-3) has one bedroom and would be provided
staff earning from LSd 900 to iSd 1,600. Designs for stores, veterinary
offices and small ancillary offices would be in accordance with Government
standards. If standards for some structures, (such as the traders stand and
market office) are not available, engineers of the Ministry of Public Works
and Construction would produce them. Market offices would be designed so
that people from the outside could see office staff working from all sides.
Pens and Enclosures
5.        All pens would be of the same general design.  Several designs
for pens and enclosures were considered keeping in mind cost, utility,



ANNEX 3
Page 3
simplicity of construction and ease of maintenance. The use of wire for
any of the pens or enclosures was discarded after inspection of the remains
of wire fence in western Sudan. Wire fences in these areas are expensive
to construct and almost impossible to maintain. Most of the fences observed
were at least 40% covered with sand, since each wire fence causes an ob-
struction for sand to drift against during the "haboobs" or sand storms.
Soon the weight of the sand causes the fence either to collapse or renders
it ineffective. Enclosures with all-pipe rails would meet all the criteria,
but construction costs would be extremely high. The most satisfactory de-
sign would probably be of used railroad rail welded together. Although re-
placement of members would be difficult, the structural qualities would be
such that replacement may never be necessary. The railroad rail structural
design was not adopted because the Sudan Railway Corporation officials could
not assure that materials would be available in a timely fashion during con-
struction, as LMMC would have to assume a lower priority position as far as
the second-hand materials would be concerned. If, however, at the time of
implementation, used rail is available, substantial savings could be realized
in overall construction cost as well as foreign exchange. The following de-
sign was selected as the one that most nearly meets the established standards.
Posts would be of two inch diameter standard steel pipe set in concrete and
generally three meters apart. The top rail would also be of standard steel
pipe and would be fastened to the posts by means of hook bolts running through
holes in the posts. The lower rails would consist of one half inch smooth
steel reinforcing bars fastened to the posts in the same manner. Pens and
enclosures for cattle would be 1.75 m high and those for small animals would
be 1.25 m above the ground.
6.        The races and sales rings would be of the same general design as
the pens, except that in some cases three meter spacing of the posts would
have to be shortened. The floor of the sales rings would be soil cement.
Secondary Markets
7.        Administrative Area.  The administrative area for all the secondary
markets would be alike and consist of a double traders stand (one for cattle
and one for small animals) and an office which would serve both markets. All
of the administrative area would be covered by a roof supported by steel
structural members.
8.        Sales Rings and Races.  The sales rings would be located in front
of the traders stands; they would be connected to the sorting sheds and
buyers pens with short races suitably gated. Although cattle are not sold
by weight at the present time, a foundation for a weigh bridge would be pro-
vided at the entrance to the sales ring so that when weigh bridges are fin-
ally used the sales area would not need to be reconstructed. A double race
would be constructed at this point to either direct the animals over the
weigh bridge or bypass it.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Sorting Sheds.  There would be ten cattle sorting sheds and ten
small animal sorting sheds at each of the secondary markets.  The sorting
sheds would be of the same general design as the pens except that post spac-
ings would be 2 meters apart and shade would be provided over the middle
portion.  Where possible, the sheds should be located so that the shades
would be at right angles to the sun.  This orientation allows the shadow to
sweep across the entire pen during the day. The moving shadow encourages
the animals to spread their manure evenly across the pen and also prevents
accumulated moisture in one location under the shade. The shades would con-
sist of locally manufactured reed mats supported by a framework of steel
pipe. The support rail would be two inch standard steel pipe and the pur-
lins would be 1" pipe on 50 cm centers fastened to the rails with 6 mm U-
bolts. The rails would be spaced 29 cm apart for cattle. The top rail
would be 2" standard steel pipe and the five lower rails would be 1/2" dia-
meter smooth reinforcing steel evenly spaced. One half inch diameter steel
droppers would be welded to the rails midway between the posts. The small
animal sorting sheds would have a top rail of 1" diameter standard steel
pipe and four 1/2" diameter reinforcing steel rails spaced at 15 cm centers
for the first three above the ground and 30 cm above those. As in the cattle
sorting sheds, steel droppers would be welded to the rails midway between the
posts.
10.       Buyers Pens.  The number of buyers pens at each market would vary
in accordance with the number of animals to be marketed on any one day.
Table 1 shows the capacity of the secondary and terminal markets, and this
capacity is reflected in the number of buyers pens planned for them. Each
buyers pen is 12 meters square and provides space for 60 cattle or 300 sheep.
The cattle pens would have a top rail of 2" diameter steel pipe and lower
rails of 1/2" diameter smooth reinforcing steel evenly spaced. The small
animal pens would be similarly constructed, but the three bottom rails
would be 15 cm above ground and 15 cm apart respectively and evenly spaced
above. The buyer pens would not be shaded since the animals would neces-
sarily not remain in the pens over long periods of time.
11.       Perimeter and Division Walls.  As in existing markets, perimeter
walls would be of brick. Division walls between the cattle and small ani-
mal markets would be of the same material. The walls would be two bricks
thick and 1.75 meters above the ground. The walls would enclose an area
large enough to leave a free area of not less than five meters from the
most remote pen to the perimeter wall, but in no case would the area be
less than one hectare. In addition to the pens and administrative area,
the workers and traders shades, the toilets, the guard houses and stores
would be inside the perimeter wall. Entrance gates would be installed at
suitable points in the enclosure and a small gate between the cattle and
small animal market would allow people to go from one market to the other.
12.       Water Supply.  All the secondary markets would be supplied with
an independent water supply, with the exception of El Obeid which would be
supplied with water from the city system. However, since the El Obeid mar-
ket would be some distance from the nearest water point, provision has been



ANNEX 3
Page 5
made for pumps at the source connected to storage at the market. Boreholes
would be provided for the secondary markets at Nyala, Ed Da'ein, El Fasher,
Meiram, Babanusa, Aweil and Kadugli. Necessary pumps and piping would be
installed for the Kosti market to be supplied with water from the river.
The Sennar and Wad Medani markets would be equipped to receive water from
the irrigation canal. Each animal pen would be equipped with suitable water
troughs and hydrants so piped water would be available at all times. Elevated
water storage tanks are planned for all the markets so that at least a days
supply would be available in the event of a breakdown. Standby pumps, engines
and spare parts would be available so the markets would not be dependent on
other agencies for these items when repair would become necessary. Repairs
would be made by either private repair shops or the Rural Water Corporation;
if standbys and parts would be available the down-time would be minimized and
repairs could probably be made before the water in the storage tanks would
need to be replaced.
Terminal Markets
13.       Administrative Area.  The administrative area would be similar to
the secondary markets, except the traders stand would only be for the cattle
market. The office would necessarily be somewhat larger than in the secon-
dary markets but would be of the same general design in that it would be
accessible from all sides by the buyers. Shade would only be necessary
over the traders' stand.
14.       Pens and Enclosures.  These are structurally the same as in the
secondary markets. The sorting sheds in the cattle market would be the same
as in the secondary markets and there would be no sorting sheds in the small
animal market. The cattle market would contain two buyers pens holding 60
head of cattle each in the Soba market and twice that many pens in the Khar-
toum market. Twenty-four private treaty pens (for privately arranged sales)
holding ten cattle each would be provided in the Khartoum market and six
of these type pens would be available in the Soba market. While the cattle
pens, as in the secondary markets, are near the dividing wall, the small ani-
mal market pens are located 25 m from this wall. In the Khartoum market
there would be 40 pens with a capacity of 50 small animals each and 40 pens
with a capacity of 25 small animals each. The pens are separated in groups
in such a manner that the buyers can readily circulate around the pens and
appraise the value of the animals contained therein. The Soba market would
provide half as many small animal pens but would afford the same easy cir-
culation. Both markets would have spraying and vaccinating races. The small
animal pens would be shaded in the same manner as the sorting sheds.
15.       The perimeter and dividing walls would be the same design as the
secondary markets and would encompass an area large enough to allow the
doubling of the market capacities with at least 25 meters clearance between
the outermost pen and the perimeter wall. In addition to the above men-
tioned structures the walls would contain lean-to sheds for the accomodation of



ANNEX 3
Page 6
herders, toilets, guard house and store. Gates as needed would provide access
to the markets. There would be loading ramps outside the gates so animals
could be loaded and trucked away.
16.       Water Supply. As in the secondary markets, an adequate water
supply would be a feature of the terminal markets. The Khartoum market would
be supplied from its own borehole for reliability. The Soba market would
have the irrigation canal for its source. Each market would have an ele-
vated storage tank and would employ standby pumps and engines as well as
a supply of spare parts. Water would be piped from there to the watering
troughs in each pen.
Cost Estimates
17.       The cost estimates were derived from base costs obtained in the
Sudan. The unit costs are based on unit costs in Khartoum adjusted to
February 1978 and are in-place costs. Variances in unit costs due to market
location are compensated for by introducing a freight cost item from Khar-
toum to the market site. Unit costs for the terminal markets would not vary
and are the same as the Khartoum price. Cost extensions and additions are to
the nearest ES 1,000. This is standard estimating practice and accounts for
slight inaccuracies in extensions but does not affect the overall practical
result.
18.       Capital Costs.  With the exception of housing, all building costs
are the estimated completed cost including labor, materials, overhead, ve-
hicles and equipment operating costs, but not including the cost of construc-
tion equipment and vehicles. Housing cost represents the finished price of
the houses including only vehicles and equipment necessary for construction.
The costs of pens and enclosures include all labor, material, overhead,
vehicle and equipment operation. It does not include the cost of vehicles
and equipment necessary for construction. The costs for water supply repre-
sent the total finished cost and include all components such as labor, mate-
rial, equipment and vehicles necessary for the installation of all the facili-
ties involved. The vehicles and equipment item in the cost tables includes
all equipment and vehicles to be used for the construction of the markets
with the exception of housing and water supply. Trucks purchased for the
primary markets would be used during construction where necessary and then
turned over to the mobile teams to be used during market operations. Non
construction equipment would be used for market operations. Wherever pos-
sible construction vehicles and equipment would be used on more than one
market. The planned use of these items is shown on the cost tables, but
during construction the most efficient dispersal and location would be ef-
fected depending on coordination and Project scheduling.
Construction
19.       The construction would be divided into three groups depending on
the type of work to be done, namely, housing, water supply and markets.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
20.       Markets.  The construction of the markets proper consisting of pens
and enclosures, the administrative area, traders shades, toilets, guard houses
loading platforms and site preparation would be performed by the forces of
the Ministry of Construction and Public Works under a formal agreement with
LMMC. The LMMC would furnish some equipment and vehicles from Project funds
to be used on market construction only. After construction the equipment
would remain under the control of LMMC to be used for maintenance of completed
markets and construction of new ones not considered in this Project.
21.       Housing.  To avoid overloading the force account capability of
the Ministry of Construction and Public Works, the housing would be built,
where possible, under contracts with private construction contractors. To
attract maximum competition the housing for the markets would be combined with
the railway infrastructure housing and tendered as one contract.
22.       Water Supply.  The water supply for the markets would be offered
for competitive tender and the contract awarded to the low bidder. In addi-
tion to qualified private enterpreneurs, the Rural Water Corporation would
be eligible to bid. As in the case of the housing, the water work for the
railway infrastructure would be included in the same contract to maximize
the competition and assure the lowest possible price.
23.       Scheduling. World Bank Chart 17693 in Annex 5 shows the Project
implementation schedule. The first Project year would be used for mobiliza-
tion and procurement of equipment as well as the preparation of tender docu-
ments and approval and award of contracts. About ninety percent of the mar-
ket water supply would be completed during the second year with the rest in
the early part of the third year.  Housing for personnel of the terminal
market at Soba would be constructed during years two and three. The construc-
tion of housing in connection with the secondary markets would begin in year
three and be completed in year four. Erection of housing for the mobile
teams associated with the primary markets would begin in year three and be
completed in year four. Site work, construction of administration *teas, pens
and enclosures and ancillary works would begin for the terminal markets in
the second year, the secondary markets in the third year and the primary mar-
kets in year four. It would be completed in year three for the terminal mar-
kets and year four for the secondary markets. The races and sales rings as
well as the thorn perimeter fences in the primary markets would be completed
in year six. In summary, market construction would begin in year two with
peak activity occuring during year two and three; there would be a sharp
moderation in year four since the terminal markets would be finished and the
secondary markets two thirds completed. The primary market construction be-
cause of size and remote location would continue at a low level through year
six.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
B. Transport Infrastructure
General
24.       The Project would provide for the establishment of 6 railway holding
yards, 3 railway transit yards and 1 railway terminal yard along the railway
between Khartoum and Nyala. The six railway holding yards would be estab-
lished at Nyala, Ed Da'ein, Aweil, Meiram, Babanusa and El Obeid. The hold-
ing yards would allow LMMC to build up specific numbers of carloads of stock
in advance of train departures, and would allow veterinary officials to in-
stitute comprehensive quarantine and disease control measures at an early
stage in the marketing process. Given Sudan Railway's present standard of
service it would not be posible to ship livestock directly from the western
producing areas to Khartoum without allowing a stop to rest and water the
animals 1/. Railway transit yards would therefore be established at Er Rahad,
Kosti and Sennar. Animals coming from the west would be off-loaded at one of
these yards, watered, rested and eventually re-loaded for shipment east. The
transit yards would also have holding facilities just outside the transit
yards for the reception of stock from the surrounding area which intend to
join the block trains at these points; animals would be vaccinated prior to
entry into these holding areas and held there until veterinary restrictions
allowed them to be moved to the transit yards. The Kosti and Sennar transit
yards would be developed at as yet unutilized sites. The Er Rahad facilities
would, however, be constructed on the site of an existing railway loading
facility and holding ground; while some of the existing facilities would
be used by the Project, extensive innovations and construction would be
necessary. The terminal yard at Soba would be located at an existing siding
which is used for handling livestock.
Design and Standards
25.       The railway transport infrastructure consists of three major com-
ponents, Railway Holding Yards, Railway Transit Yards and the Railway Ter-
minal Yards. Although they have different functions, the same general de-
sign applies to the structures. This should contribute to the efficiency
of the construction operation since building and erection would become a
repetitive process, shortening the construction period and tending to lower
costs. The designs, of course, are preliminary for cost estimating purposes,
and some changes would be expected during final design and implementation.
26.       Buildings.  The buildings for the most part would be constructed
to standards and designs in common use by all agencies of the Sudanese Gov-
ernment. The residences would be the regular houses furnished to middle
and junior grade civil servants. Housing would be provided to certain staff
1/   Animals coming from El Obeid would generally be shipped direct to
Khartoum after joining a full block train at one of the transit yards.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
in those small towns where housing would not be available. Personnel earn-
ing ISd 1,601 to ESd 2,999 would be entitled to a middle grade house (T-2)
which has two bedrooms. The Junior grade house (T-3) has one bedroom and
would be provided staff earning from ESd 900 to ESd 1,600. Designs for
stores, veterinary offices and small ancillary structures would be in ac-
cordance with Government standards. If standards for some, such as the
workers shade would not be available, engineers of the Ministry of Public
Works and Construction would produce them.
27.       Pens and Enclosure.  Pens and enclosures at the railway facilities
would be designed according to the same standards used for similar installa-
tions at the market sites. Posts would be of two inch diameter standard
steel pipe set in concrete and generally three meters apart. The top rail
would also be of standard steel pipe and would be fastened to the posts by
means of hook bolts running through holes in the posts. The lower rails
would consist of one half inch smooth steel reinforcing bars fastened to
the posts in the same manner. Pens and enclosures would be 1.75 m high.
All pens would be designed to accommodate either cattle or small animals
and thus would be dual purpose. The perimeter walls would be of brick with
a two brick thickness or concrete block depending on availability of mate-
rials. There would be stock guards at the railway entrances. Since all
yards would be under quarantine, access would be limited and animals would
be confined to the inner pens.
Railway Transit Yards
28.       Three Railway Transit Yards would be established at Er Rahad, Sennar
and Kosti. All would be constructed to the same design and capacity, and
would be capable of holding the largest trainload of livestock which would be
5,400 small animals.
29.       Holding Pens and Races.  There would be eighteen holding pens at
each transit yard within the main enclosure. A small annex holding area
would contain four pens and veterinary facilities. Each holding pen wouldj
be twelve meters square and would have a capacity of 300 small animals or b0
cattle and could be used for either. Gates and races would lead the animals
from the holding pens to the loading pens or vice versa. Since the animals
would be in strict quarantine, the holding pens within the main enclosure
are twelve meters apart. The holding pens and races at Sennar and Kosti
would have posts of 2" diameter standard steel pipe spaced 3 meters apart
and set in concrete.  The top rail would be 2" diameter steel pipe; the
seven lower rails would be 1/2" diameter smooth mild steel reinforcing bars
with the lower four rails spaced 15 cm apart and the upper three spaced
evenly above. Droppers of the same material as the small rails would be
welded at midpoints between posts.
30.       The design of the holding pens at Er Rahad would be modified to
provide for the use of the material in the present stock pens. The exist-
ing 30 meter square pens would be razed and re-erected to conform with the
sizes planned for Sennar and Kosti. The salvaged material would be used
to the greatest extent possible. The salvaged posts would be used with



ANNEX 3
Page 10
their rail brackets and the four 3" pipe rails could be used, but 1/2" dia-
meter rebar rails would have to be installed midway between the three lower
pipe rails and below the lowest pipe rail to contain the small animals.
At a salvage rate of 80% for rail and 60% for bolts, it would be necessary
to purchase only a small amount of new material for the pens and races at
Er Rahad.
31.       It would be necessary to install shades over the middle portion of
the holding pens. They would be supported by a pipe frame consisting of
longer middle posts and additional posts three meters each side of the middle
post as well as intermediate posts inside the pen to support the shade rails.
These additional posts would be necessary because without them the two inch
diameter pipe shade support rail could not satisfactorily span the 12 meter
width of the pen. Purlins of 1" diameter steel pipe on 50 cm centers would
be attached to the shade rail by the use of U bolts. Locally manufactured
reed mats would be spread over the purlins for shade. Where possible the
sheds should be located so that the shades would extend north and south.
This orientation allows the shadow to sweep across the entire pen during the
day. The moving shadow encourages the animals to spread their manure evenly
across the pen and also prevents accumulated moisture in one location under
the shade.
32.       Loading Platform and Loading Pens.  The existing loading platform
at Er Rahad would be more than long enough since it is planned to load or
unload fourteen wagons at a time. As the locomotive would be attached to
the block train at all times, the other thirteen cars would be loaded or
unloaded by moving the train after the initial cars were full or empty. New
loading platforms would be constructed at Kosti and Sennar to accommodate
the 14 loading stations and to clearance specification of the Sudan Railways
Corporation. The platforms would consist of earthfill behind a concrete
block or brick retaining wall with the surface stabilized with soil cement.
33.       The fourteen loading pens would be loading either cattle or small
animals and would each have a capacity of two hundred small animals, or one
double deck wagon load. Each pen would be constructed on the loading plat-
form and would be 8 m by 12 m with gates in the rear adjacent to the race
leading from the holding pens. A short race from each loading pen on the
track side would extend to within 76 cm from the edge of the platform.
Railway regulations do not allow extending it closer to the track. The load-
ing race would a total of two meters long and would funnel from the loading
pen from a width of two meters to one meter in a horizontal distance of one
meter. It would remain one meter wide the remaining one meter in distance
and would be gated when it first reaches the one meter width. Portable ramps
would be available and fit inside the permanent ramps for loading the top
decks of the wagons. Shading of the loading pens would not be necessary be-
cause of the short time the animals would be confined therein.
34.       Water Supply.  Each transit yard would have an adequate water supply
system consisting of a storage tank, distribution and cattle and small animal



ANNEX 3
Page 11
watering troughs with hydrants in each holding pen. The existing supply line
and storage tank would be used at Er Rahad, but new pumps and engines would
be installed at the lake. Water would be supplied from the irrigation canal
to a storage tank at Sennar which would also supply the Sennar Secondary Mar-
ket. Water would be obtained from the railway water supply at Kosti but a
booster pump would be utilized to assure a supply into the storage tank.
35.       Railway Sidings.  Railway siding construction would be necessary at
all the transit yards so as to have enough track to load as well as enough for
cleaning wagons outside the transit yard.
Railway Holding Yards
36.       The railway holding yards would be located in Aweil, Babanusa, Ed
Da'ein, El Obeid, Meiram and Nyala. The ones at El Obeid and Nyala would have
18 holding pens and 14 loading pens. The Ed Da'ein holding yard would consist
of fourteen holding pens and seven loading pens. The holding yards at Aweil,
Babanusa, and Meiram would have 9 holding pens and 7 loading pens. As in the
transit yards the pens would be constructed to hold either cattle or small
animals and the same materials would be used. The holding pens and the load-
ing pens in all the holding yards would be constructed exactly like the ones
in the transit yards. As in the transit yards a brick or block wall 20 cm
thick and 1.75 m high would surround the pens for quarantine purposes. The
holding pens would be a minimum distance of 60 meters from the inside of the
wall. All perimeter widths would be 150 m while the lengths would be 324
meters at Babanusa, Aweil and Meiram, 444 meters at Ed Da'ein, and 540 meters
at Nyala and El Obeid. These perimeter dimensions would allow ample room for
expansion with the retention of quarantine standards.
37.       Water Supply.  Water would be supplied to all the holding pens.  All
holding yards would have the use of storage tanks which would feed the distri-
bution system to the holding pens. Each holding pen would be equipped with
cattle and small animal watering troughs that would be filled by a hydrant
from the distribution system. All the holding yards would be supplied by the
same source as the markets in the same town. They would share the use of the
storage tanks in all cases except El Obeid where it would be less costly to
have a separate storage tank for the market and the holding yard. All water
sources would be equipped with standby pumps and engines as well as a good
supply of spare parts. Although LMMC would have to depend upon others such
as the Rural Water Corportion to repair the pumps and engines, these reserve
items would be available and water services should not be interrupted due to
a long wait while orders were being prepared and parts shipped. Pumps and/or
engines could be changed and repaired in the shortest possible time while the
livestock was being watered from the storage tanks. Boreholes would be
drilled at all locations except El Obeid where water would have to be obtained
from the municipality. However, since the El Obeid Holding Yard would be
some distance from the nearest water point, provision has been made for pumps
at the source connected to storage at the holding yard.
38.       Railway Sidings and Loading Platforms.  Where necessary, railroad
sidings and loading platforms would be constructed. The railroad sidings



ANNEX 3
Page 12
only need to be long enough to load the livestock inside the holding area.
However, most of the holding yards would be a considerable distance from
the nearest switch points. In these cases existing sidings must be extended
or new ones constructed with the necessary switch points. The loading plat-
forms would be constructed according to the standards and designs furnished
by the Sudan Railways Corporation. They would be long enough in each case
to support the required number of loading pens and the surface would be
stabilized with soil cement.
Railway Terminal Yard
39.       The Railway Terminal Yard would be located at Soba at the siding
where livestock have been loaded and unloaded in the past. The same struc-
tural standards and design would be used as in the other railway infra-
structure components but holding pen orientation would be changed. While the
loading/unloading pens would necessarily be located on the loading/unloading
platform, the holding pens would be in a group parallel to the railroad siding
but 36 meters away from the loading pens. They would be arranged on each side
of a race which would extend from the loading/ unloading pens to the exit/
entrance of the perimeter wall. Since the animals arriving on the block train
and any animals waiting to be exported would be well into their quarantine
period, the holding pens would not be separated, as in the other holding and
transit yards, but would have a common fence between them. The arrangement of
the pens and races is such that animals departing from the train could either
leave the quarantine area immediately or be held for completion of the quaran-
tine. In a like manner, animals boarding the train here can either go di-
rectly to the train or be held for quarantine purposes for short periods of
time. The railway terminal yard perimeter fence would be constructed to the
same structural design as the holding yards. It would enclose an area 130 m by
338 m and have twice the holding capacity of the largest holding yards. There
would be room to double its capacity and still retain adequate quarantine
standards. Due to clearance problems the perimeter wall would be all on one
side of the railroad siding and connect with the loading/unloading pen fence
rather than cross the track.
40.       As in the holding yards, there would be an adequate water supply
with storage, distribution and watering troughs for both large and small
animals. The water source would be the irrigation canal between the terminal
and the Forestry Station. There would be the necessary piping and structures
as well as standby pumps and engines with an adequate supply of spare parts to
furnish repair agencies in the event of a breakdown. Repairs could be com-
pleted before the water in storage is fully depleted. The water supply would
be independent of the Soba market because costs of supply from a common pump-
ing station would exceed the costs of establishing the smaller stations along
the canal.
41.       The existing railway siding would have to be extended to provide
space for cleaning wagons outside the terminal area. The extension would be
constructed so that with the installation of a switch point, the empty block
train would continue on to the main line without backing through the unload-
ing area after the cleaning operation would be completed.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Cost Estimates
42.       The cost estimates were derived from base costs obtained in the
Sudan. The unit costs are based on unit costs in Khartoum adjusted to
February 1978 and are in-place costs. Variances in unit costs due to loca-
tion are compensated for by introducing a freight cost item from Khartoum to
the yard site. Unit costs for the terminal holding yard would not vary and
are the same as the Khartoum price. Cost extensions and additions on the
cost tables are to the nearest LS 1000. This is standard estimating practice
and accounts for slight inaccuracies in extensions but does not affect the
overall practical result.
43.       Capital Costs.  With the exception of housing, all building costs
are the estimated completed cost including labor, materials, overhead, ve-
hicles and equipment operating costs, but not including the cost of con-
struction equipment and vehicles. Housing cost represents the finished price
of the houses including vehicles and equipment necessary for construction.
The costs of pens and enclosures include all labor, material, overhead, ve-
hicle and equipment operation. It does not include the cost of vehicles and
equipment necessary for construction. The costs for water supply represent
the total finished cost and include all components such as labor, material,
equipment and vehicles necessary for the installation of all the facilities
involved. The vehicles and equipment item in the cost tables includes all
equipment and vehicles to be used for the construction of the yards with the
exception of housing and water supply. Non construction equipment would be
used for yard operations. Although the cost tables show certain equipment and
vehicles for each yard, this should not confine the use of the equipment to
one location. If it is necessary to move equipment from one location to
another for construction eficiency and scheduling, it should be done.
44.       Operating Costs.  The operating costs include costs for staffing
each transit, holding and terminal yard in accordance with the staffing pat-
tern provided for LMMC (Annex 6). In addition, operating costs for vehicles
used in the operation of the railway infrastructure facilities and miscellan-
eous operating costs such as utilities, office supplies, and maintenance of
structures are detailed in Annex 4. The water cost on the tables represents
the total operating cost of the water supply including amortization of capital
costs. Operating costs for the equipment and vehicles used on construction
are not included, since they are a part of the cost of construction and are
included in the in-place unit prices of each construction item.
Construction
45.       The construction would be divided into three groups depending on
the type of work to be done - namely, yards, housing and water supply.
46.       Yards.  The construction on the yards proper consisting of pens
and enclosures, the administrative area, traders shades, toilets, guard
houses, loading platforms and site preparation would be performed by the



ANNEX 3
Page 14
forces of the Ministry of Construction and Public Works under agreements
with LMMC. The LMMC and the Ministry would enter into one agreement for
engineering design and a separate one for construction. The design agreement
would stipulate, in addition to the standard clauses, that the Ministry would
perform the necessary design work in close association with the LMMC and that
all final designs would be approved by the Director General of the LMMC. The
construction agreement would contain all the standard provisions of a contract
with a private construction contractor such as:
(a) responsibility for work;
(b) commencement and prosecution of work;
(c) time of completion;
(d) suspension of work;
(e) delays;
(f) annulment and default of Agreement;
(g) sub-contracting;
(h) extension of time;
(i) and if legally possible, liquidated damages and bonus
for early completion.
Other special provisions such as payment, and the furnishing of equipment and
materials and those clauses specifically related to local conditions and
Government inter agency agreements should also be included. The LMMC would
furnish some equipment and vehicles from Project funds to be used on railway
infrastructure construction only. After construction, the equipment would
remain under the control of LMMC to be used for maintenance of completed
facilities and construction of new ones not considered in this Project.
47.       Housing.  To avoid overloading the force account capability of the
Ministry of Construction and Public Works, the housing would be built where
possible under contract with private construction contractors. To attract
maximum competition the housing for the railway infrastructure would be com-
bined with the market housing and tendered as one contract.
48.       Water Supply.  The water supply for the markets would be offered
for competitive tender and the contract awarded to the low bidder. In addi-
tion to qualified private enterpreneurs, the Rural Water Corporation would
be eligible to bid. As in the case of the housing, the water work for the
markets would be included in the same contract to maximize the competition
and assure the lowest price.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
49.       Scheduling.  World Bank Chart 17693 in Annex 5 shows the Project
implementation schedule. The first Project year would be used for mobiliza-
tion and procurement of equipment and materials as well as the preparation
of tender documents and approval and award of contracts, with emphasis on
the completion of the railway infrastructure from the terminal west as soon
as possible. All of the construction would be completed by the end of the
third Project year, 80% of which would be completed during the second year,
or the first year of construction activity. About ninety percent of the
water supply for this infrastructure would be completed during the second
Project year with the rest during the third year. All the housing would be
completed during the second year of project operation. Site work, offices,
stores, loading ramps, pens, perimeter walls and ancillary works would be
completed on the Terminal, the Er Rahad Transit, and the El Obeid, Ed Da'ein
and Nyala Holding Yards during the second year; the rest of this type work
would be completed during the first four months of the third year. The
railroad sidings to serve the terminal, holding, and transit yards would be
85% completed during the second year with the rest of the work scheduled to
be completed during the first quarter of the third year.
50.       In summary, the railway infrastructure construction work would
be about 80% completed at the end of the second Project year. And at this
time, the Railway Terminal Yard, the Er Rahad Transit Yard and the Railway
Holding Yards at El Obeid, Ed Da'eim and Nyala would be fully operational.
The Sennar and Kosti Transit Yards as well as the Holding Yards in Aweil,
Babanusa and Meiram would become completely operational during the first
quarter of the third Project year.
C.  Summary of Project Investments
51.       A summary of proposed Project investments is given below:



ANNEX 3
Page 16
I. Northern Darfur
Existing Arrangement        Secondary Markets (2)   El Fasher         El Geneina
Primary Markets (8)      Kutum           Kulbus
Mellit          Taweisha
Kebkabiya       Umm Keddada
Foro Burunga    Malha
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office  El Fasher                        Staff:  8
1 Secondary Market                        El Fasher                       Staff:  15
4 Primary Markets 1/                      Mellit           El Geneina 2/
Kebkabiya       Umm Keddada
I Mobile Marketing Team                                                   Staff:  8
1I. Southern Darfur
Existing Arrangement        Secondary Markets .(3)   Nyala            Ed Da'ein     Zalingei
Primary Markets (24)    Abu Gabra        Abu Matariq   Mireigha
Muhagiria       Buran          Tullus
Rahad el        Idd el Ghanam Kubbum
Berdi
Kas             Safaha         Dereisa
Umm Dafoq       Gimelaya       Ferdous
Umm Agaga       Abu Karinka   Kileikli
Abu Sal
Mazroub         Dar es Salam  Sinun
Adida           Sharif         Angabo
1/   Foro Burunga for geographical reasons will be established and serviced
from Nyala.
2/   The secondary market at El Geneina would be developed on the lines of
a primary market on the assumption that it would be given special atten-
tion by the mobile marketing team.



ANNEX 3
Page 17
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
I Provincial Livestock Marketing Office  Nyala                             Staff:  9 1/
2 Secondary Markets                        Nyala             Ed Da'ein      Staff:  30
11 Primary Markets                          Zalingei 2/      Gimelaya
Foro Burunga 3/ Furdos
Idd el Ghanam   Buram
Tullus           Umm Agaga 4/
Rahad el Berdi  Safaha 4/
Kas
2 Mobile Marketing Teams                                                    Staff:  16
2 Railway Holding Yards                    Nyala             El Da'ein      Staff:  30
III. Northern Kordofan
Existing Arrangements       Secondary Markets (2)   El Obeid           Er Nahud
Primary Markets (20)    Rahad             Um Rawaba      Bara
Sodiri           Umm Summta    Umm Dam
El Ghabsha       Hurat el       Hamrat el
Sheikh         Wazy
Umm Badir        Umm Safya      Nayrub
Umm Bel          Dam Gamad      Wad Banda
Suqa el Gamal   Sa'Ata          El Khuwei
Olyal Bakheit   Umm Inderaba
1/   An Assistant Provincial Livestock Marketing Officer would be included in
view of the large numbers of livestock moving through the South Darfur
markets.
2/   Zalingei would be developed as primary market.
3/   Both Zalingei and Foro Burunga, because of their importance, would re-
ceive special attention from one of the mobile marketing teams from
Nyala.
4/   The markets of Safaha and Umm Agaga would be operated by the mobile team
based at Meiram, which is geographically better placed than the teams
operating from Nyala or Ed Da'ein.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
I Provincial Livestock Marketing Office  El Obeid                           Staff:  9 1/
1 Secondary Market                         El Obeid                         Staff:  15
6 Primary Markets                           Sodir            Um Ruwaba
En Nahud 2/      Bara
Hamrat esh       Er Rahad
Sheikh
1 Mobile Marketing Team                                                     Staff:  8
1 Railway Holding Yard                     El Obeid                         Staff:  15
I Railway Transit Yard                     Er Rahad                         Staff:  27
IV. South Kordofan
Existing Arrangements        Secondary Markets (2)   Babanusa          Kadugli
Primary Markets (22)    El Fula           Lagowa          El Muglad
Meiram           Abu Zabad      Tibon
Abu Bateike      Umm Tajok      Abu Kon
Abyei            Sunnut         Dabkar
Dilling          Umm Berem-
beita      Talodi
Kologi           Abu Gibeiha   Rashad
Abbasaya         Bagara         Heiban
Kailak
1/   In view of the large throughput at the El Obeid market and the importance
of Er Rahad as a transit point for livestock from the west, an Assistant
PLMO would be recruited for the El Obeid Provincial Livestock Marketing
Office.
2/   Er Nahud would initially be developed as a primary market.



ANNEX 3
Page 19
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office  Babanusa                           Staff:  9 1/
3 Secondary Markets         Kadugli         Babanusa         Meiram 2/      Staff:  31
8 Primary Markets                                            Dilling        Talodi
Kologi           Abbasiya       Abu Zabad
Tibun            El Fula        Abyei
2 Mobile Market Teams 3/                                                    Staff:  16
2 Railway Holding Yards                     Babanusa         Meiram         Staff:  30
V. Bahr el Ghazal
Existing Arrangements        Secondary Markets (2)   Wau                Aweil
Primary Markets (5)      Gogrial           Raga           Wun Roq
Nyamlele         Deim Zubeir
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                      Aweil          Staff:  8
1 Secondary Market                                           Aweil 4/       Staff:  16
1 Primary Market                                             Gogrial
1 Railway Holding Yard                                       Aweil          Staff:  15
1/   An Assistant PLMO has been included in the staff for the Babanusa Provin-
cial Livestock Marketing Office in view of the large volume of livestock
moving through the South Kordofan markets.
2/   Transport and a driver have been included for the secondary market estab-
lishment at Meiram; as the market is essentially a seasonal operation,
the market staff would operate as a mobile team as required and also
service the South Darfur markets of Safaha and Umm Agaga.
3/   One mobile marketing team would be based at Kadugli and the second team
would operate from Babanusa.
4/   Transport and a driver have been included in the secondary market estab-
lishment at Aweil to service the primary markets in the area.



ANNEX 3
Page 20
VI. White Nile
Existing Arrangements        Secondary Markets (2)   Kosti              Ed Dueim
Primary Markets (6)      El Kawa           El Shugeig    Rabak
Umm Gasa         Shawall        Wusa'a
Project Proposals
The establishment or development of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                      Kosti          Staff:  8
1 Secondary Market                                           Kosti          Staff:  15
1 Railway Transit Yard                                       Kosti          Staff:  27
VII. Blue Nile
Existing Arrangements        Secondary Markets (4)   Damazin            Sennar         Singa
Dinder
Primary Markets (12)    Kurmuk             Abu Huggar    Suki
Abu Hasham       Karkoj         Wad Nail
Abu Sheneina    Bau             Qeissan
Chali            Ubu            Umm Shoka
Prolect Proposals
The establishment or development of:
I Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                      Singa          Staff:  8
1 Secondary Market                                           Sennar         Staff:  15
1 Railway Transit Yard                                       Sennar         Staff:  27
VII. El Gezira
Existing Arranaements        Secondary Markets (2)                      Wad Medani    Manaqil
Primary Markets (8)      Madina            Kab el Didad  Haq Abdella
El Hosh          Tambull        Rufaa
Kanlin           Hasaheisa



ANNEX 3
Page 21
Prolect Proposals
The establishment or development of:
I Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                   Wad Medani    Staff:  8
l Secondary Market                                        Wad Medani    Staff:  15
IX. Upper Nile
Existing Arrangements      Secondary Markets (1)                     Malakal
Primary Markets (8)     Bentiu           Nasser        Kodok
Tonga           Wangkai       Ajok
Shambe          Renk
Prolect Proposals
The establishment of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                   Malakal        Staff:  8
X. Kassala
Existing Arrangements      Secondary Markets (3)   Kassala           Gedaref       New Halfa
Primary Markets (11)    Aroma            Doka          Wad el Heleiu
El Showak       Mafaza        Hawata
El Sufeiya      Goz Rageb     Abu Gamal
Qallabat        El Fau
Pro1ect Proposals
The establishment of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                   Kassala        Staff:  8
XI. Nile
Existing Arrangements       Secondary Markets (3)   Atbara           Ed Damar      Shandi
Primary Markets (6)     Metama           Kaboshia      Abu Hamad
Zeidab          El Bauga       Berber



ANNEX 3
Page 22
Prolect Proposals
The establishment of:
1 Provincial Livestock Marketing Office 1/                  El Damar       Staff:  8
XII. Khartoum
Existing Arrangements       Terminal Market (1)                       Omdurman
Pro1ect Proposals
The establishment or development of:
I Provincial Livestock Marketing Office                     Khartoum      Staff:  8
2 Terminal Markets
I outside Khartoum (to replace the                                   Staff:  27
existing Omdurman market)
I at Soba (to service both livestock                                 Staff:  23
arriving by rail and those arriving
on hoof from Blue Nile and Gezira
Provinces)
1 Rail Terminal                                             Soba           Staff:  31
(including holding yards for quarantine
purposes)
1/   This would also serve Northern Province.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Secondary and Terminal Markets - Market Capacitie§
Cattle             Small Animals
El Obeid               600                  3,00Q
El Fasher              240                  1,200
Nyala                  240                     600
Kadugli                240                     600
Meiram                 300                     300
Aweil                  300                     300
Ed Da'ein              180                     600
Sennar                 180                    600
Wad Medani             120                     900
Kosti                  180                     300
Babanusa               120                    300
Soba                   180                  1,500
Khartoum               480                  3,000



ANNEX    3
Figure 3.1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock Flows - Khartoum Market
STOCKROUTE
~1
KHARTOUM
VETERINARY             DETENTION PENS
C ONTROL POST               FOR SICK ANIMALS
FEED 'ts
LOTS
BUFFER
ZONE                                             HOLDING PENS FOR ANIMALS
QUARANTINE     /                               KHARTOUM             THOUT MOVEMENT PERMITS
FOR EXPORT          BUFFER       FEED          TERMINAL (-
LIVE OR  <           ZONE     -  LOTS          M MARKET
KADERO SLAUGHTERHOUSE
LOCAL MERCHANTS
FOR RECONDITIONING                      LOCAL MERCHANTS
WHOLESALE        FOR RECONDITIONING
\       ~~BUTCHERS/
SOBA
\           /                   TERMINAL
\ /               WHOLESALE      MARKET
4\    /BUTCHERS
ABATTOIR
RETAIL BUTCHERS



ANNEX    3
Figure 3.2
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock Flows - Soba Railway Terminal
ON HOOF FROM
BLUE NILE AREA                             SOBA
TERMINAL
SOBA VETERINARY
CONTROLX 
SOBA                   SOBA DETENTION PENS
VETERINARY CONTROL  -          FOR SICK ANIMALS
SOBA
TERMINAL
/MARKET
LOCAL           M A1T
MERCHANTS                               SOBA
QUARANTINE
HOLDING PENS
WHOLESALE
BUTCHEKS                                    FEED
KA/ERO               LOTS
\ z  /                   ~~~~~~KAPERO
OMDURMAN                             QUARANTINE
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                         STATION
RETAIL BUTCHERS
EXPORT             EXPORT, KADERO
LIVE              SLAUGHTERHOUSE






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
PRIMARY MARKET
_.                        *  t t..-          -               _ _-  --  _   -  _ s      __   -   _; -    ,
4M            ,l
en   ~                       eL__v O
SALES RING            OUTb -
THORN BUSH
NOT TO SCALE
July 13, 1977
World Bank 17705






D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVESTOCK MARKTIN   PROEC
...~~~~~~~ WALLH ANIMALS                                                                         _-_{_;
I~<Tl2SEDS\-   
l ~ ~~~~ ~  *HD      |SPt.ME...IA
TtJliETS  |  /   \  n        | TAHY }                                         7b1                      1~~~~~~~~~~CrrL






_ OILETS                         -        -                                                                                                            iTRADERSSHADE |
WATER TOWER                                            A RO
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
KHARTOUM TERMINAL MARKET
5    5   5   5   5  2.5252.52.52.5
SMALL ANIMALS
;             -E                                              lBUYERS 
9E        ...4 SDREiNG SHEDS4                                                                                                             _ 
CATTLE
230                                                                                                     TO
World B.~k -17695






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
EL OBEID RAILWAY HOLDING YARD
STOCK GUARD                                                                                        P.R SIDING                                                                          STOCK GUARD
CGR. SLOA DING PLATFORM                                                                         /fETN .
RACES                                                                       00 00 "  "  0  "  "  m  1" -   ^t^  
18 SHADED HOLDING PENS 12M APART AND 12M X 12M EACH. GATE ALL PENS & ENCLOSURES AS REQUIRED.
SHADE                                PERIMETER WALL
VACCINATE & SPRAY
SCALE- 17250
JIy IIS, 1977                                                                                                                                                        World Bank - 17708






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
RAILWAY TRANSIT YARD (ER RAHAD)
STOCK GUARD                                                    PRR. SIDING                                                                                                                                     STOCK GURD
CLEA;ING AREA _   _ |            RACES   1               -                                       LOADING PLATFORM                     E                   DJ, ItN G                                  --          -
l  <                        ~~~~~~~~18 SHADED HOLDING PENS 12M APART AND 12M X12M EACH GATE ALL PENS & ENCLOSURES AS REQUIRED.
,SHADE                                               PERIMETER WALL
t                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCALE -1:1250
12
OFFICE STORE
VACCINATE & SPRAY_V
JuIl 13, 1977
W.rld 8-nE, 17706






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
SOBA RAILWAY TERMINAL YARD
338
TOI LETS                                                                                                                                    TOI LETS
HOLDING PENS
GATE AS NECESSARY
I   I   I  I  I  A   S/    I    1  1
SHADES                                       \SHADES
LOADING/UNLOADING PENS                                                             LOADING PLATFORM
SHADE                                >    2|       l    l     |                 7     7       X     t      i||SHD
R.R. SIDING
SCALE - 1:1000
July 13, 1 1977                                                                                                                           World rn,k - 17707



I



SUDAN                                        -aNNe 4
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Project Cost Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Local        Foreign          Total           Taxes         Total
Net of Taxes
a)  Livestock Transport            7,000       13,500          20,500           4,700          15,800
b)  Transport Infrastructure       5,700        4,000           9,700           1,400           8,300
c)  Market Infrastructure          5,800        2,900           8,700           1,100           7,600
d)  LMMC Headquarters              7,100        2,200           9,300           1,000           8,300
e) Technical Assistance,
Training & Studies              700         2,400           3,100             -             3,100
Total Project Cost          26,300        25,000          51,300           8,200          43,100
August 12, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 3
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKET ING PROJECT
(a) Livestock Transport
Invest-ent Costa
(Md.)
Year 1               Year 2            Year 3           Year 4             Year 5              Year 6           Years I - 6            Foreign            Tes &
Iten                      Utit      Unit Cost       Units       coat       Units      Coat    Uelts    Cost   Units   Cost    Units   Cost            Units   Cost   Total        Tat           Exchange           Doies
Unita      Coat                                %
R.llies Stock
Locoeotives 1/                           No.         336,000          3     1,008,000        3    1,008,000       4  1.344,000   -         -         -      -            -       -       10    3,360,000            71               29
Doable Deck Wagoes 2/                    No.          17,800         14        249,000      14       249,000    41    730;000   -          -             -         -       _              69    1,228,000           80                20
Va.a                                     No,           18,000         3         54,000       3        54,000      3      54,000        -             -       -           -       -         9       162,000          80                20
Sub-Total                                                              1,311,000             1,311,ooo         2,128,000                                                                  4,750,000           74                26
Spate Parts
Locomotiv-a                            Set           336,000           -         -                     -          1    336,000                                                             1      336,000           71                29
Wagons & Vans                          Set            42,000          -          -           -         -          1     42,000   -         - -               -     -             -         1        42,000          80                20
Sob-Total                                                                                                         378,000                                                                    378,000           72               28
Working Capital - LMMC 3/            Luep se             -            -          -           -                         446,oo0    -    324,000       -   233,000         -   153,000            1,156,000           30                 8
Total lnveatneot Costs                                                 1,311,000             1,311,000          2,952,000         324,000           233,000             153,000            6,284,000           66               23
I!   Delivery to take place at the beginning of year 3 and Frogre..  payments
of 307 each in yeara 1 and 2, balance at delivery.
2/   Delivery to take place at the beginning of year 3 and progress paynents
of 207 each in years 1 and 2, balance at delivery.
3/   Aa.sa.es LMNC vould pay rental to SRC in saoothly advances. cf . Anne  9, Table 4.
July 6, 1977



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK HARMIK NG PR.CT
(b) Tr"ap-ort Iafr..trenture
Su_ary of Investment Costs
Years                                             Years 1 - 6               Foreig         Taxes and
It..5                              1            2             3             14            5            6            Total Coat                Exchange       DestS..
CAPITAL COSTS
B.ildings                                                    223,000           -              -             -              -          223,000                    52              IS
Site Preparation                                  -          102,000           -              _             _              _          102,000                    63             23
Pens end Enclosures                               -          607,000        318,000                                                   9 _  _  925,000            44              11
Rail.ay Sidings and Loading Platfoms              -          288,000         49,000           -             -              -          337,000                    42              11
Water Suply                                       _          220,000         25,000           -             -              -          24s,ooo                    56              18
Vehicles and Equipment                            -          377,000          2,000           -             -              -          379,000                    61              30
Freight                                           -           54,00          11,000                                                    6sooo                     52             16
Total Capital Costs                                     1,871,000        405,000                                                 2,276,000                    50             16
OPERATING COSTS
StaCf f                                                        1,0CC         89,0CC       117,000        114,000        133,000       454,000                    -
Vehicle and Equipaent Operatisn                   -             _             9,000        13,0C00         6,0C0         12,000        50,000                    77              17
Mi-Scell.neou  Operating Costs                    -             -            32.000        49.0CC         74.000         77l000       232.000                    42              23
Total Operating Coats                                       1,000        130,000       1759,000       204,000        222,000       736,000                    18               8
=                                                     =
Total Transport ICfrastructure                             1,872,000        535,000       179,000        204,000        222,000     3.012,000                    42              14
Juns 27, 1977



SUDAN                                                                                              A     A
LIVESTOCK MAHFTUING PPOJSCT
I  (b) Tranaport Iorrantr-ottre
Capital and Operating Coats - Avail P      iHay Holding Yard
(tu)
Year 1                Year 2               Yer5Year 4                                Year 5               Yea 6               Ia-,  I   6             PAreg         lass aSd
It.e                         Unit          Unit Co-t       Unite     Cost      -Unie aCot             U nit       o         Uite    Coat        Units     Cost        Unite     Coat       Total      Total bIeh.bs                Detis.
Unite     Cast         
CAPITAL COSTS
ldieg V                                                      _ -                      _           -      26,ooo       -                                                                                            2 -  -  -  -  -  '  '  26,ooo  52  15
Site Preparation /                        -                                          _ -          -      11,000       -          -          -         -         -          -          -                     '      ll,oo0             65             24
Pan sad Enolsure
LoadingPN..                                                                                             9,000                                                                                                     9,000             53             14
Holding Pens V                                                                                  -       5,0CC               14,000        -         -          -         -          -          -                 19,000              55            i4
S.e.  V                                  _                 _             _          _           -       1,000       _       12,000        -         -          -         -          -          -          -      13,000              5S            14
Walls and Gates                          _                 -             _          _                                       16-  0        -         _          -                                                 16,00               17             4
SDb-Total Peas and Enoloenree                                                                       15,000               42,000                                                                               57,000              44            11
Water Supply
Horn Hole H                             No.           13,345.00          -          -         0.5       7,000        -         -          -          -         -         -          -          -        0U5       7,000              60            28
Pu=p  ene                                . 2s,            70.00          -                              l,00U                                                                                             8       1,00               52            15
PisIp J                                 No.            1,lO0.00                                 I _  1   ,Oo        _          _          _                    - _       _          _          _          1       1,000              56            14
Feine  V                                 No.           2200 00            -         _           1       2,000        -         -          -          _         _         _           -         _          1       2,000              56            14
Elevated Thai iV                         No.           6,450 00          -          -         0.5       f,00U        -         -          -          -         -         -          -          -        0.5       3,000              54            21
SUpply Pping                            a                  6.so          -          -         110       1,000        -         -          _         -          _         -          _110                          1,000              56            14
Diatribotion Piping                                        425            -         -         37         ,000                                                                                           375 2,000                    56            14
l5drsnts                                No                22. 00            _                   9         -          -         _          _          _         _         -           -         _          9          -               56            14
Water Troussa (Cattle)                   No.             110.00          _          -           9       1,000        -         -          _          _         _         _          _          _          9        1,000             54            21
Water Troughs (Sheep)                   No.               50.00           -         -           9          -         -         -          -          -         -         -                                9          _               54            21
Sob-Totnl Wter Supply                                                                               18,000                                                                                                    18,000              57            21
Vehicle  and Eqoipnant i/                  -                 -              _         _           -      22,00N        -                                                                                     -      22,0D0             59            35
Nail'oad Siding and loading PstrormV    -                    -             _          -           -      51,000        -         -           -         -         -         -           -         -           -      SD,o000            40             11
Do-eatin Freight
Freight via Sallay                      Ton/K.             0U02          -          -     4so,coo       9,ON 14,O0           3            -          -         -         -           _         _    624,000       12.000             52             i6
SDb-Total DoseStiO  Freight                                                                          9,000                3,000                                                                                12,000             52            16
Total Capital Coats                                                                                   152,000               45,000                                                                               197,000
OYFhATINO COSTS
Staff                                      -                 -              -         -           -          -         -       7,00          -       9,000       -       8,000                11,000                3 S5,000           -              -
Mia..llanaoI.   operating Costa V          -                                _         -                                        2,000         -       2-000               5,000         -       6, o                 15,000              45            18
Vehicle Operatlon 2/                       -                 -              -                     -          -         - _      ,UOO         -       1,000       -       2,000         -       1,0 _0 5-,N0                            77             17
SDb-Total OPerating Cots                                                                                                 IC,000                12,000              15,000                18,000                55,000
Total Coat Avail Railesy Holding Yard                                                                  152,000              55,000                12,000              15,000                18,000               252,000
. . Acnna 4 Table U for det-il.
V To auPPV tbe Aesil anelot niub nte  ala.
/ Sen  An-e 4 Teble 9 fo- detaile.
Jose 27, 1977



Table 6
Coaita an  opratng   oat-Aaae.saRailwy Coldieg Card
(ZSd)
S-caYerf CnYe.e. Ioc                                                                       er Year                    6              fear  1-                  F-rign         T-ooso
oNt-                          Mitt           Uio Coa          toots      Coat         hitS       Coot      uhOd                              Cost a.lt,            Cost         hoits     Coat        Total      Col P           CotaL           Tortes
2EITAL COSTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oteCa 
COPCOOI CCITt~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                      1       2                                                                                                       I       1
Yerertoaooo OSCiro/Storo       ~~No.           2,200.04                                   1        2,00         -                                                      --                     -I                   2,0 coo                            01
3ose  Stellar                              No.               60.00,.                                 2          -          -          -          -          -          -          --                     -2                     -                 o              t
Coillars                                  te                271.0            -                       2        1,00         -                                                                                                  1,00                520
Worer  Otado                               No.            l,000.OC           -                       1        1,0                                           -          -          --                     -I                    ,0                  ri
oltdl  ...radS_oooa                        No.           12,300.00                                                                                                                                                                                               I    200 --------1 1,0  P1
eoiotoroeda H..a.i                        No .           7,300.TC            -                                .0                                                       -          --                     -0                   [000                               lT
CobT-Cool Codlloga                                                                                       26,000                                                                                                          26,00                52             15
-atoeor-                                   m                   .o            -          -        7,000        9,000        -          -          -          -                     -                      -       7,00 MO       000                68             2
D-ala-  Stroot-o                           ltoOn          2,0000K            -                 I-,a 00~       2,000        -                                                                                           --lnoOo  2 CO0             00             00
Sob-Coral Sit.e Pes9artioo                                                                               Id 00                                                                                                           11,000               65              oh
sr-  aod E-Ilaora
Ltieote Po-     oe  soCI
ooithCotrt                                 o                 11             -          -          150        1,000 C                                                                                              110,       c,0                30t
Tle?pPoo                                    .0.0                             -          -          260       t,0 Do                                                                                                00         0001                               i
CTtOd1il -go                               0.                  . 00                                285        2,0CC        -                                           -          --                     -         00          ,0                Ti              oh
-ren  -1i -, 2/i                                              0.O            -          -        1,996        1,00 -Do                                      -          -          -                              1,996        1,000              IL              i6
6- It  Bnolt:-   ot                         o.04                             -                      f                                                                                                              I,,  ----     f  -            "I              14
6oo ToH  Bolts -  o                       d.                                                    1 . Tal6      1,000        -I                                                                                     ,o          10:0               tOo
t-ic                                      do.               710i                                    4       1,0          -                                 -c-                                                     14        1,000              IC              s
Portble L,-adTO OapeT.                                             OC                                7         1,00        -          -          -          -          -          --                     -           7        1,000              56              o4
LoadSg Pladh                               do.              150. DC          -          -            I        1,0CC        -         -           -          -          -          --                     -           7        1,000              T6              14.
H.tidlg Pet
attCoe--rte                            No.                 -.06                                 i                                                                                                              216  -----      4  1000        30             10
telPpep  Soos-                          .1.0                                                   723         ,00         -6                                                                                       O          ,0                  t1
st_aalClNdOlt-"                            r                    . - 2-C-                                        -       4140       2,00          -                     -          -O                                  7        ,00So
btsCo NodoNorI - 2'        o.                ~~~~~           ~           ~~~~5.00  -                     3  - 76   2,000         -                                                                              `--  O  0 C      02~             lb
Poelloa - 0'               a,                 7.60            -          -           -          -~~~~~~~38  1,C0DO  6,oro         -                                           -          -       100          6000                06             lii
RsOaeTaNl 1/0"  a.  0.CC  -      -            -         -      7000         0000          -          -         -          -           -          -       7,100        2,000               04             16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'o    1
Tlb-aDeWsop-    112b0                                                        -          -                               70           -                                 -          --                               0            -                -               -
6o.so-kolaTolt.200                         do                 0.79           -                       -          -        t           -                                                                             190          -                 6              14
boo Soot So1ta - 15..To                                       0.00           -          -                             1290         1,00          -                                                              1200         1,000               5O             14
Eaoodlts -tIs..To.                                            0.0 -5--3                                                 00           -700--                                                   -                                 -                t6             14
Tee- ts Post Toles .ae  Fill
att  Co-oeb                               No5.110                           -          -          211b      T,OS         -          -           -          -          --  -                                      210        1,0cC              35              10
Ot-1  Os  om   2' a-t.5.70                                                   -          -                               600        T,00          -          -          -                                          600        3,00C               56             l4
~tIsa  CITe TIt - 2'                       .t6                                          -            -          -       30         000                                                                   -        000~    0,000                  56             1l
Tease dali-S/St  a.             0.10           -          -            -         -      6,000        7,000         -          -          -         -            -         -       6,000        7,000              t1,             o6. coo  ,-  3~C  ~ 4  1
Oela- Toee-1/2',                           6.005                             -          -            -                   0           -                                                                            10                             L
Eeso-ktlolt-   IaNo                                           0,79                                                      270          -                                                                             70          -56                              14
6n  loot dolts  1- iCoNo                                      0.00           -goo ,90                                              110)          -          -          -          -                              ,0          1,000               Si             14
Walls sad Ostes
Oer,se-.- Wale aI                                            16.00                                                      948       10,00          -                                                                 18       15,000              15               7
Gates                           No.              150.00            -         -            -          -                     -          -          -          -is        - 2-                               I2        -56                              "I
SrookaT-1                                No.11.0--                                    -                       -          2       2,000         -                               7--                     -                    ,                  02 4           11
loSH-tos  Pe7 riTo0,oe                                                                                     15,0CC               62005,0040t
Water C2 oT5                                                         0                               .S        8C OTlyoo02
E d=t.d T.OOs 2/                        N,2S 1,0.0                         -         -          0.5       3TSCO         -                                                                                       .5I       8,00               0               28
do,      110000~           ~~~ -                             2,0                                                                                                             ,000               56             14
fllelrtbooioo POpioW            a.~~~~1            4.0             -3750                           9,0                                                                                                  7         2,0                56              14
It'd ..l                                  No.                22.0            -9                                                      -           -          -          -         -5                                                              6              L1
Wate  T-h.g (Carl)                          o                10.0,0          -          -            9        1,0COO-                                       -          -         --                                          ,005.C
Waret rTete, (bth-g)                       No                1.0             -                       9          -         -          -           -          -          -         --                     .9                                      54h
-loTt-Irl Aster-     I                                                                                   20,000                                                                                                         05 000              57              20
/To aoppo-y ooasrto -ths Taba-os  wrbt    o






ANISE 4
Table 6
SUDAII                                                                                           Page 2
LIVESTOCK MAIEETrNG PROJECT
(b) Transport Infrastructure
Capital and Oprating Coots - Rahan.sa Railway Holding Yard
(fESd)
Year 1                Yar 2                Year 3               Year 4              Year 5                Year 6             Years 1 - 6              Ford gn       Taxes and
Item                        Unit           Unit Coat       Units     Cost         Hails     Cot       Units     Cost        Units    Cost       nita       Cost      Units      Cost       Total    Total             Exchange      Duties
Units    Coat
CAPITAL COSTS (Continued)
Vehicles and Euirment
Block Machine                           No.            1,100.00           -         -           1       1,000        _         _          _          -         -         _                                1        1,000             72             18
Dump Truck L/                           INo.          14,400.00           -         _        0.33       5,000        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -       0.33        5,000             66             35
Welding Machine N                        No.           2,500.00           -         -        0.33       1,000        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -       0.33        1,000             70             18
4 WD Plea-Op                            NO.            4,80o.oo           _         _           1       5,000        -         _          _          _                                                    1        1,000             34             62
Concrete Miner                           Rn.           2,200.00           -         -        0.33       1,000        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -       0.33        1,000             76             18
Water BSeser N                           No.           4,300.00           _         -        0.33        1,000       -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -       0.33        1,000             6o             14
Generators - 1000 W. N                   No.             941.00           -         _           1       1,000                                                                                              I -  _  _  _  _  -  _  1  1,000  70      18
_mall Tools                             Lump Slo       1,000.00                                                      -         _          _ap lox    1,000                                                                           75             20
Cleaning Equipment                       Lump Suo        500.00           _         -       Luxp Sum    1,000        -         _          _          _         _         _           -         _      Lump Sl      1,000             65             20
Office Equipmnt                          Set           1,000.00          _          _           1       1,000        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -          1        1,000             6o             36
Initial Spare Parts - 20% J             Lump Su.       4,000.00           -         -       Lump Slo    4,000        _         _          -          -                                                L--p Inn    4,000              60             31
Sub-Total Vehicles and Equipment                                                                    22,000                                                                                                     22,000             59             35
Railroad tiding and Loading Platform
Siding Extension                         EKn.         21,500.00           _         _           2      43,000        -         _          _          -         -         _           -         _           2      43,000             37             10
Blok Retaining Wall                     m.                 9.00           -         -         102        1,000                                                                                           102       1,00               30             8
Co-pacted Earth                          a3                2.00           _         _       1,800       4,000        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -       1,800       4,ooo             68             25
Soil Cement Surfaen                     m2                 3.00                               868       3,000        -         -           -         _         _         _           _         _         868       3,000             51             13
Sob-Total Railroad Siding and Loading Platform                                                      51,000                                                                                                     11,000             40             11
Domestic Freight
Freight vie  Railway                     Ton/K..           0.02           _         -    369,ooo        7,000 105,780        2,00                    -                    -          -         -    474,780        9,000              52            16
Stb-Total Domestic Freight                                                                           7,000                2,000                                                                                 9,1000             52            16
Total Capital Coats                                                                                    157,000              44,000                                                                               201,000              49            16
OPERATTNG COSTS
Staff N                                    _                 -              -         -           -          -         -       7,000         -       9,000       -        8,ooo                11,000        -      35,000              -             -
Vehicle Operation N                        -                  -                                   -          -         -       1,000        -_0                                                1,000        -       5,000              77            17
Miscellaneous Operating Costs
Water                                    m3                0.27           -         -            -         -      ,500       1,000    5,500        1,000   5,500        2,000    5,500        2,000   22,000        6,000             31            23
Office Supplies                          per yr.         250.00           -         -           _          -         1       1,000         1         -         I          -          1          -          4       1,000              74            19
Maintenance of Structures N              % per yr.         2.5            -         -            -         -         -          -      Lup Sum    1,000  Lup Sox    3,000    Lap Slm    4,000   Lump Slm           8,100              52            15
Sub-Total Miacellane-  Operating Costs                                                                                    2,000                 2,000                5,000                 6,ooo               15,000              45            18
Total Operating Costa                                                                                                       10,000                12,000               15,000                18,000               55,000              19              6
T          …ct-  Cost B.anusa B±il-ey Holding Cand                                                     157,000              54,000                12,000               15,000                18,000              256,000              43             14
/ CIcluding furniture.
N To aupply water to the Babanusn r maet also.
3/ To be used for cnstructon of Aweil and Melrum holding yards also.
-Incldes water supply pump and engine.
5] lee Annes 4 Table 9 for details.
i No structure maintenance the first year construction is complnted and 1/2 estimated amount the second year.
Jupe 24, 1977






Bio sO - 0aaio,  Posta - Ed 20 sin  -0la   010   ad
7002)
21~    201             Siooo                      092                                                       ots~'   Cst                                     9006Yer,   -6                               dtelo e-aan
E.-$Ol  Oln  0,nrno0220                                                                                                                                                                                                2,000              63             03
60n2Bop20no0/      -                  -              -          -            -       9,00C         -         -           -          -          -         -           -          -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  9,050     s6             1
Holin  NonE.
n-nonts Post 0-1, and..1
aIoO9.norr$n              $0.                 0~~~    ~     ~     ~ ~        ~~~.40 -   336  200          -          -           -         -          -                                           2          ,0                3$             11
Stesllsnls   Idn..3                                                          -          -        1,2         6,0                     -           -          -          --                                       .0          6203                              14
noslll$nslaIB-0'0  n.  1.61  -  -      600       6,206        -          -           -          -         -          -           -          -        $20        -1020             nO             so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dnOn20Onlos-C5na  In.  0.02  -     -          220          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -         -         290          -                56             0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 ~ 2,  5  1
09111 011 00101- 0" 7      a.                  0.30~~~~~~~~7  -                     2          ,2                                                                                                  0         5,00i                             10.
BO,,001n0001-2t            a.3.0                              -          -       6.00         7,20                    -           --                              -           -         -        ,o6         7.o0               s              :2
Osna- Ball - 1,2' 6         a.                0~~~~: t~.00     -         -        000          600          -          -          -          .          -          -          -          ,       000         10                  62
201a0roBnoo./o0             1                  0.$            -                    630          -          -                      -         -          -          -                     -         60           -                6              1
0$a,$ookfloln,-2$om  So.           0.70           -          -         620          -          -          -           -         -          -          -           -         -         600          -                00 6   ~
Onolo 20100 - lOoto  100.  1.90  .  -  0,020  2,200    -          -           -          -         -          -           -          -      2,000        0,001              20             oh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
00002009 SaIl              a. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~10.0                                 .120       $,2                                                                                                 ,2          0001 
So.  oio.20  -  -  2  -       -          -           -         -          -          -           -         -           -          -                sO             n6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ESoOlloolnOl     Bo.               550.20           -          -           0        2,000        -          -           -         -          -          -                     -           2      2n~~~~~~~~7          90             22
OoO-Oooeo 0100 1002 000100.0,51                      39,020                                                                                                         73,020             -.6            01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42
nor, 01203/                 So.            0,320.00                       -         0.1        9,00         -          -           -         -          -1- 4                                      0.         9,20               0              1
Boo,oSo.,s,3/  n~~~~~~~~~~   20.20   -   -    B       1,200        -          -           -          -         -          -           .          -          0        1,203              30             20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
2009010  to.   1,020.00   -      .            0       0,010        -          -           -         -          -          -                                 0        1,000              sO             26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3, 1 .  4
1200913'                    050.          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,202                         0        0706-                                                                                     -           $       020s                               10
tOtn,$,t 0100 2o  tOo.  6,110,20  -  -  0.0      5020         -          -           -          -          -         -           -          -         0$        3,061              11             20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
topl0$Oq-/                                 n                  05                                                                                                                                                                               7  .0  ,0            --- 090 0,2  60
$i1500o02i20 PipIng  n.  6.21  .  -    110        0,000        -         -           -          .          -         -           -          -         020       2,020              $0             oL.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
5,0120011.BI 200106115~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50                                                                                          1             2
01000 0101011  On.  1,100.00  -    -            ''00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  -      -          -          -          -          -          -           i        1.201              30            od~~~~~~~~~~~~~P9  31  l  1
Oases 001,sr  10.  6,320.20  -  -        1       I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  -  -     -         -          -           -          -          a        1,000             iro             oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  i
9,oaoa$o,-0200  20.           9s5,20           -          -            B        0,00         -         -                      -          -. .6     .l-       ,-          -.           2        ,00701
21101 $0111               bIg 020         2,200.20~~~~~~~~~~1  -                 01  01      000          -          -           -         -                                                    00O         ,0                  10
COIlning lsnOoe,0  Ing  020  0,202.20  -  -   ~ ~     t20    0,020  -         -           -         -          -          -           -         -       6010 ba    1,200                20I00
opirioslsoipsso  0  tao 1,000.2           -                       0       5,01         -          -        -            -          -          .           -         -           1         .0                 o
0020201 02090 019n0. 0'  Isog Ing  ',200.20   -   -                    0.020       -          -           -          -          .          -          -          -                   0.020              60             31~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,  6..  L,0~  3  '
.0n9-tnBao 200006-0                       -lo,ool                                                                                                        622,20:             62             56~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Soa ,B19 Ca7O






AIs4X 4
SU5Ad.                                                                                                  Table8
Lr3ESTocK WWiBEINrG PRO=E 
(b) Transm rt Tofrastrottura
CoAttal .od Opera-tlo  Cots - El ObUid  ail-s  Ho,dtna tart
(biSd)
Teen                    T eac 2TYear 3                               Tee,4                 YeS                   Yle    b             T         rsI - 6         ForeIgn        Te-  est
tri                           1it            Ultr1 r-an        Units       -t                                  Stt                                       Unite      Cost        Units      Cost        Total      Total            E-ah.ge        D,ties
Unit.      Cost
CiPITAL COSCi
Puildl    ' -i                                                 -               -                               7,rno        -          _           _          _          -          -           -          _           _        7, CC0              52i
Site Priparatiost
ebrthrnrk                                  =3                  1.25           -          -        7,000        9,200        -          _           _          _          _          -           _          _        7,000       9,00C               69             25
Dtrirne stm tores                          Lo=p ton       2,0C0.O.            -          - CO          S       2,-00p             -         _      _             _          _       _                              Ltlrp 4      2, OC               541            21
Soot-Cratl SIta Preparation                                                                               11,D Cl,o00                                                                                                                          65              24
Pens arC,d Enclosua2s
L       Froin Eens                         - _                 _                         -            -       17,                      - _  _      _          _          _          _                      -           -       17,0C0              53              i4
Ho1tt     - r Pena:                                                           - ,                                                                                                               -i,OO_                                             5b4            114
Eaceb /                                    -                   -              -          -            -       22,000                   -           -          -          -          -           -          -           -       22,OOC               53             14
Wat1a1 r00ntea                             -                   -              -          -            -       2300I                    -           -          -          -          -           -          -           -                                            45.0CC  17  
50-ortal Onr  a-td EnlcFrei                                                                             113,00O                                                                                                          113,000               46              i2
ta-e  Sop5ly
P-'p  ,-o7e/                               s                  7C.C                                                                                                                                                                                  5 -   - 97-- -o  _  -  8  I,i O  52  IS
Supply npiag U,'                           =.                  9.5                                1-,0 0         n 0                   _           _          _          -          _           _          _       1,000       C0,COo               56             14
B-ut-r FnPwEri                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2/rBo       l      iOC                 , 'O  0 56 F flO( 5 4 1
ti-teitotiot Pips                          4. 4.2b                            -                                4,000 0                 -           _          _          _          _           _          _         bp         4,0OC               n6            1i4
Ty-tret                                    2c 2.00                            -                      la                                -                                 -          --                                 8          -                  6i            14
Wa er Tr-uohp   (Cattle)                   hr                110.00           -              -       t9        .oO 00                  _           -          -          -          -                                 1-8       2,000               14             21
Waar rrugh   Sh-eep)                       Nc.                bO.O -O-                               tO *                                          -          -                                 -          -          18        1,000               t4             21
Fcuntaina                                  hr.               bSUOO            -          -                      __          _             _        _            _                   - _         _          _           6          -                 a4             21
S.4-T0tal Wtrr  SaPPIY                                                                                    35,00r                                                                                                           28,0,°               55              17
Vchicleb    tTao. 1oE-iam-t                   - _                _              _             _                 42,00                    -           - _           _                  - _                    - ,                 42,000               62             2t9
Tail-r0t e-0    ton iD dt.ctib Pl9atftar.
Sidi                                       2a.           01,500.00    _            _                1.S                                            -          -          -          -           -          -_        1.0       32,000               37             10
oilt L  Point                              l;o.           2,150.00            _          _            2        4,0-                                -          -                                            -           2        4,000               58             17
Wnlslnao  Wal                                             9.0 co-                              199          OX                                           -                     --                     -         t          2,000               50              9
Conpaoittn Earth                                               2 0.00                    -        3,2 0,0       *000                                                                                                            6    _  -  o -  5,900  6,000  68   28
t.,itteorclt Su1rface                      a03.500                            -          -        1,6oh                                -           _          -          _          -           _          _       1,684        5.0CO               51             13
Sob-T tatl tolrcafl D diRg n-d Lo,tdin  Platfo                                                            491.000                                                                                                           Ng, O                44             13
De-tic freight
Fro-gha  tia R-xan-y                       T-c/so.             2.02           _          -      52,            7.00                                                                                              S -  3S2,000  7,000               52             06
Sob-Toct1 Do=eatic fraight                                                                                  7,0 C                                                                                                            7,000               52              6
T-tnl  spitnt Cotta                                                                                           0't,000D                                                                                                        257,000               SO             16
oYEEATDir. CCISTS
St.f,   o                                    _                   -                         _            _                              7,-M          _        9,-w0        - _       .0           -       l1,OW           -      35.000                               -
Vetlea operatIon 1/                                                              - -                     -          -          -       I _o           _                             2,000         _ -  -                  -          00                               17
tTiatxlsane00a OPtraoirp Coztta
W.aer                                      =3                  0.27            -         -             -               11,000        3,000   11,200         3,000  11,000           000   11,00          3,000   44,200        12,00                51              23
Offt to  S,pp,li-           ,              per yr.           3no.0,           -          -            _          _          1        1,000         I          -                                 I          -           4        1,000               74             19
int..n...co.f ct--tor-s I0                 9 Pir yr.           0.1.5          _           -            -         _          -                .VAP  s        2.000  LUip So        5.1000   L ip 2p       5.000   ben, OV       12,000               52              15
0.o0v  stsl nicrr  ,nr 1ec   Cperstt.p Cotst 4.000                                                                                              e         ,0oo                 8,000                  0,0CC                 25,000               43             19
Otal lp-rstlrg Coote                                                                                                                02,000 M5000                                is,000                 20,000                 65,oo                24               9
Tontl Cast 01  heit Eaailae., yoong Yad                                                                       257,000               02,000                 15,000               la, OO                  20,0Dr                722 0D0               45             15
I1 Sccen   4 Oat>  90cr f-       ta.
2/ To  iMply  -ttr     it El Utei m-oit a1-a.
_/ Ic  rt---r  0lrcoanoe the firan peet   afte-  -oio5 d 1oa                 -ttiea eted a=asat the  -ond
J-oe 27, 197T






T.bl. 9
iV3TOLtX tOlotot rat,N Sguu
(bIrnstersrt Isfrastosottoc
Ilsoltar sot ororsottng Co,t - Metres -    it Y-   toltiui Yard
ttes                          Utit            Ittt Cost          t,        Cost             Yeits  tt         Wit,       Cost         ot,       Ct 4        ote    C                   Yet r C             oal       Total            Osodange         aties
7nitt I       t                                f
SUtldi-to                                     -                                                                   26,0X         -                      --                                                                           26,o00               52 
sitt  OrojsosOtbot 7/                         -                   -              -          -             -       11,00         _          -           _          -          -          _            -          _           -       11,0C                6.3             24
L steOtl  rots 7/                           -                   -              -          -             -       9,000         -          -           -          -          -          -            -          _           -        9,000               553             04
ttololttrDtrt3/                             -                   -/                                               9,-  -  500C  _      14.0t U        -          -          -          -            -          *           _         19,000             55             i0
.eossi                                      -                   -              -  1/  _  ___0(01 -G                                                  _                     -                                              -       15,000               541             14
Walls sGd dates  _/                         -                   -              -          -                       _ -S -                  o          -          _          -          _            _          _           -       160,00               t7        
Sob-T,tal Pett  sod to1r-otoo                                                                                ., 0010              42,000                                                                                       57,00                44             11
Meter tOtolo
Eore llots  t                               ( No.         13,34S.00            _          _          C.O         7,C l          _          _            _         -                   -            _          _         0 5        7,000               Eo              28
Pasp 3gpse Es                         t2                 70.00            _          _            e        1,000        -          -            -          -          -          -           -          -            8        1,000               S2 ,5
ttOOr 2T                                   Ito.             1,00.00            _          -            I        1.001        _-          _           -          _ -   -                            _ -                    1        1 -  0              56              14
EogOtrd./2     -,                           No.            0,001.00            -          -             I       0,Ooo         -          -           _          _          _          _            _          _           1        20.00               S6              lI
lstsdiTRr5:,                                toyn.          e,450.00            -          -          0.1         5,000        -          -           -          -          -          -            _          -         0.5        3,00                014             21
Osootopp ipi g                              o.                 6.50            -          -          050        a. 212        -          -           -          -          -          -            -          -         250        2,010               16              14
Dit,ribtiotn Piping                         h.                  4.25 -                    .           375        2,110        _          _           -          _          -           _           _          -         375        2,000                 6             14
3vdranto                                    No.                00.00           -          -             0          -                                                                                                       9          -                56              14
Wtotr Troushto  /Cott(a(                    hto.              10(0.1           -          -             9       1,000         -          -           _          -          -          -            -          _           9        1.010               54              21
tateoros,agts (dtos/                        NTo.               10.00           -          -             0)         -          -          -           -          -          -           -           _          -           9          _                 tI              21
-T.,-1oWsldst-r lopt, 19, 00900                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s7              21
Vebilols atd EGull:=ent
3-ok Nsoh'ne                                .o             1 ,10.O                                      I        I 0  0.000   -          _           -          -          -           -           -          -            0       1, O0 72                            t
to Trakt 31                                 ho.           t4400.00             -          -          (W.73        ,00         -          -           -          _          _          -            _          -_       0 C.33      6 .00               C6              33
Weld5oN   sllot 2/                          to.            2,500.00            _          -         1.33         1.000        -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -        0.33        1,too               70              l1
460D00k-tp                                  to.            4 8  0.00           -          _.000 I                                                                                                                                     DO -  -  -  -  -  _  -  1  5,0 0  34  6o
Cohtr-os Miser 1 1                          to.            2,200.00            -          -         0.33         1,110        -          -           -          -          -          -            -          -        0.33        1,000               76              18
-atsr looser  / INo.                                       L,300,X             -          -         0.53          . 000       -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -        0.33        1,000               6l ]4
T lora_ors -1000W.-  M                                                                             -o 95.00 -  1  1,000      -          -           _          _           -                                 - _          1       1,000               70              10
oestl tosols                                Cssso to9      I,OO0.OO            -          _         to  toop l]  ,COo         -          -           -          -          _          -            -          -       Lht tspsW    1000                T5              200
CleAnitN 2.qoipnoot                         LuwoOoo          100.01            -          _          oopIn SPA  l,_oO         -          -           -          -          -          -            _          -       boptos SE    1.000               60              20
Office Equipo ot                            Sot            1,000.00            -          -             1       1,000         -          -           _          -          -          _            -          -           I        1,o0o               60              31
h dio Ceatsost-sr                          tOo.            1 0.0.100                                    I        1,000        -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -            I       1,000               68              27
OoOto 00teoo7a               , '            IN.            1,000. 00           -          -             1        1,000        -          -           -          -          -           _           -          -            1       1,000               T2O.            15
o,t-Ttao Cotilrosod                                     I obngetO                                   I           oot                                                                                                            06,00                79              33
Oitlrad 01di00 sod L           PadIog Clatto-os
000000                                      to.           01,900.00            -          -             1      200,000        -          -           -          -          -          -            -          -            1      00,000                i7             100
oso  rot0                                   No.            0.050,10            -          -             1       0,000         -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -           0        0  0                3'              10
31Iok Rstsdoboodt Ws'o.                                         0.00           -           -          01-.       1,090        -          -           -           _         -           -           -          -         100        1,000                30e
(:ngarcted Ort.                             h3                  0.00           -          -        1,8V10        4,0oo        -          -           -          -           -          -_-                    -       1,_00       46,0o                68              2t
til Cee-t oSrlars                           s@                   .0oo          -          -          868         3,000        -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -         868        3,700               51              19
tos-' tol ositrodso     i  d t0t   L't Otodoo 6 PL   toom                                                   01,000                                                                                                             50,00                ( 12            t2
-oasstit Fosight
Prstgrt via PIlo-y                         Tos/hL.             0.02           -          -      253,000         S,000 109,000         2,00          -          -          -           -           -                360,000        7,00                 15             16
.b-lot-ttl D-tsi Fot hreight                                                                                   000                 2,007                                                                                        7,000               52              16
To1-al C-pIl os.s                                                                                             030,0                   4,0-                                                                                       174.00,                50             1A
4taff 7/                                      -                   -               _          -            -          -          -        7,007          -       9,000         - 7,0 7                 ,      11,000          -       35,000               -
Veotole Operation S                           -         A         -               -          -            -          -          -        1,000          -       1,000         -        2,000         -        1,000          -        5,010               77              17
titlsteloneas o0(emstai   Costs  ~/           -                   -              -          -             -          -          -        2,00          -        2,000        -        6,000          -        6,000          -      15,0011              15      ,        018
-totl 005050100 C0,000                                                                                                                                         00,000                 L0,50008,000                                   ss,00                19               G
Colol Cost Mtir  patloo,  0old0ng lard                                                                           -30,000                54,00                   L2.000                150,000                  ,0                   209,000               42              14
_/ 3ee A      o 4 T Sl '  fcr   der s.
21 To sCO psly roF tol ths tlttr,t torlst 5'so
00 To ba osed for CcnS000l100 orF cf Awnl sod eNsooi,G^
4/ CoO 1ides soars parts f .r y0( soad cogissa ooer otter sopply'.
31 too 000004X Table 0 rar detail s.
.         d.. 00.  09-i7






ANNEX 5
SUDAN                                                                                                          Table 1I
Page I
(FUd)
Yeari1                   Y-sr2                  Year 5                   year                   rea                      Year1E                Year  1 - 6                 Fria            Tna
Iosm                            Tokt            Unit Coot          Unite        -to         (rftst       Cost       Uaita      Cost         Unat        Cost       Yalta       Cost         Osita.      Coat         Total      Ttal-               aE-h-genie
Usita      Cost
BuildIngs
COMIe                                         N-               2, 000. PC                      -             1        2,1000        -           --                       -                                                           1         2,000                F                I  5
Vt-lninse   N'o001ott.                                        2,200.00              -                        1        000 -OOC-                                                                 --                                             2,000                52               10
osard 0ooa0.oe,o                                                 800.0              -          -             I        1,000         -I                                                                                                         1,000                52               1t
dosed Gholter                                 t.                  60.00             -          -             2           -                                                                                                           2                 -            52               is
Totleta                                       torn-              -0. 00             -          -             2        000           -                        -           -                      --2                                            1,001                00               It5
Wor,or  CondJo                                to.              0, 000.0             -          -             1        1,0           -                        -           -                      --                                    1        U,ttU                52               10
Oob-Total BolOdiogo                                                                                                7, 000                                                                                                                  0,000                 52              it
sit,o Prronrtto
Yartio-                                       a                    1.25             -                  1,000         10,0o                      --                       .          -                                           12,000        11,00                 69               25
DrainsorerotLa-ba   tuo                                        1,000.00             .          -       ion  tor      3y990           -                       .           -           -.--                                       Lamp _oa       4.,00                54               21
Cob-Total 3iLo PrprOo                                                                                              9,000                                                                                                                  09,000o               Co               04
loadiag Pro
nI)hC-oerto                                  To.                  t4O              -                      280        2,000         -                                                                                               97         2,000                00               10
Steel PIp~Pe -t,O  - 2'                                            5 .  .70        -                       755        4,Dos         .                                   (--                     --                                  O          4,000                56              o1
Top  5al.0~a                                                         .6o            -          -           Co         7,00          . o                                  -          --                                             610         0,000                06               11,
Debar Oslo - i/o   t         a.                   ~~~~~           ~     ~    ~        ~~~~0.00  -    ,0330  0,00                                                                                                4,330         2,010                 54.             i6
Odoolaolia  - Ofen                To~~~~~N.            0.00             -3 26                                -           -                                                                                               2---76       -                  06              11.
8rrs Poole DolOr . loom           To~~..0 O.t                           -           -         2908         1,01          -                                   -           -          -                                0,P20          1,000                1 6             14,
Gstas                                         or.                 75.00             -2 0                              2,00          -2                                                          ---o                                           2,000                16               oh
Poralts Loading  aNgs~                        N..                000.00             -          -            lb        10,00         -           --                       -          ----i    14    ,000                                                             06               lb,
LonbiN  Plenbe                                To.                100.0                                      14 i        .0m          -                                                          ---o                                           2,000                t 6              14
felding Pen
oltir Conoreon              to.                  0~~~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~.40  -  - 32  2,000                                                                                                      43  -.-      0  0,000            00              10
Steel P-p  talL                               a.                   0.60            -           -           89         0.00          -                                                           ---                                80          50,00                56               VI
Stool PIpe Obade Do-pot                       a.                    .60             -          .           712'       400 o                                              -          --                                             712         4,   00 0            56               14
Steel Ppep  Ponlo-  - 0'Po                                          .60             -                     ,000       11,000         -                                                                                             ,000        bS,000                s6              lb
Ciade Menttog                                                      o.4o             -                    ,126         1,000                                                                                                      i,4216        l,OOP                -                -
Una 2al  .iO                         m                    0.00            -           -        01,.          0.00                      -                       -           -           -.,                              6,160         0,000                1.4              16
6,  Wook B,lte   25Obo                        tO                   079                                     3 sE          -3                                                                                                         6o0                 ~                            11.
6am lootk btoc    1-00,                       N:.                  O.b8             -                   2,to          100           -           -                        -          ----                                         2,000         0,00 Mc                               14
6nse U-Ooltr - lon-i                                               0.57             .                    1, 420       1,00                                                                                                       i               ,425  1,000        10               t
Sale,              to.                 '1.00            .           - ~~~~~~~~6            00:0          -           -            -           -          -           -            -           - ~~~~~56    6        0,000                06I,
Uoaot  Bos   oleso  21
niti, Co-trri                                to5.4o                               -           -           367        2,000         -3                                                                                              67         2,000                8                10
Otro  Pipe Osil  - 2"                       o.                     .6c                                 0, 90         9,0 CI-O                                                                  --                                ,480        8,000,                o6 
laorRil - 112"                             0.0.(1io 1,400                                                          0,00          - c                                 -           --                                         lt,~ot         0,00                  09              i6
Dr-rrpp-r-1/                                .0.10                               -                      2090          -                                                                                                           90           -                  1               16
6neoHooool 2-5be                              to.                  0.719            -          -           400C          -                                                                                   -.                    (0                                6 
6oet boo  nolta-l1o-                          00                    oO --             0,900 2,                          000          .                       -           -           --                                  -       o,oo  2,000    0c                    6              IL4
Prrie:ros-                                    a.                  i6.o0             -                    1,500       221 2,1,                   -                        -           -          .-lbI                                                                                 0
Isbn                                          No.                100.0              -                                                -          -.                       -                                       2                                -                   6              14
Oleoiiossrda     Pr.               DDO.02             -           -                      '000~        ~     ~ -                            -           -           -                                             4J270                 52 
<o-,oO    nard PE-l",".o                                                                               ID) ,U00                                                                                                                 ip1ngp                  40              12
Polar SoOoOo,
rosap rose1'                                  N0               1,0.0                -                        1         1,.000        -I                                                         ---1                                           1000                  UP              10
Bor  F."n                                     to.              0,00.10              -                       .          1,000         -                                                                                               .0        0,000                 60              26
'Tl                           N,                 ICC~~~,10.00                                1         1,000         -I                                                                                                        1,00                  ,6              1
E1L40  9/1                                    N.:200. 00                            -I                                 1,000         -           -1)( -                                                                                                              5         I000  6  1t
Ul-tsseOYs-k                                  No.              6,4tUo.oo            -                      0.0         3,000         -          --                       -           ----                                          0.0         7,00 Ott 54
otelpI  rping-  w                             a                    9.501                                 2,000       19,00           -                       --                                              --                  2,000        19,000                916              14
Pietribuilon Piping   I"                                           4 .b.20                                 810         0,000         -                                               ---.                                            O         4,ooo                 t6              14
opdlent,                                      No.,                02.00             -                       0            -                                               -           ---                                             &            -                  ,6              o 1)
Water Tronio                                  Ne.                01.00              -           .           18         2,02 om                                                       ----i                                                     1,000P.                               21
Ontoer TroPl                                  t.00.00                                                       18         1,00          -                                   -           --                                              19         1,000                14              21
D,--i-to                                      0i,                 00.00             -           -            6           -           -                                                                                                                                4-6-o          21
bob-totno Wot-o  3,1                                                                                              Op002                                                                                                                    76,000                06               16
-uoe0etoo   ol.  cr-00   -olo    ad  toOOl osarlt.






SMM                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 10
LSVESTSOl tidOTRfll iiniJCT                                                                                           Fags 2
(b) T-ssport Oseoots
CaAiO~ inS operting Costs - No 1l2 OnIl-ap tOol Ot  Y.,d
marl IoarYesar2I-  3                                                                                                 Yee.Yer  arta - 6                               Consig          feo-  ned
Stem                           Un-t           Unit Cost          Bolts      Cost          olits     Cost        COdAs      Cos.t       Units       Cost       Potts      Cost         Lilts      Cost         Total      Total           iEsosnoa         ilutis
tisito     Cost 
CAPITAL. COSTS Continud)
ehi~loto and ooipaeno.
Blood   eotho-                              So.             1.1000                         -                     1 000                                                                                                       I                 1,500      72              10
Dosp Trosk                                  No.            l4,,4s0.00            -                       I        In,ccC                                                                                                      1       14,o,oS              66              33
Welding  tathi-n                             So.            t, hlOi.il           -          -            I        3,0CC         -          -            -          -                                                          1        3,000               70              tO
Iin Pick-op                                No.             4,Otoi.0            -                        1        S,CI ox                                          -          -          -                                    1        1,000               34              62
C-ono etloeri-                              N.o.            2,110005             -          -            1        2,CCC         -          -           -           -                     --                      -1                    2,1000              76              tO
W. -eotostso                                So.             4i,300.i0            -4.                     -          i,07                                                                                                      I               40,01        Eo              it
Oernt -tOOsO.No.                                              945sI              -                       2        2,0 ox                                           -          -          -                                    2        2,000               so              la
is ilT.o,,                                  Lroop Cor       2,000.00             -                    0-   o    2.11 MO                                            -          .          -                                Used  oss   2,000                75              20
Csals~ Itoqip-nn                            Losop torn       , '.10.0 -W-                             OT-    o    1,1M0                    -            -          -          -           --                     -        lost; ton    1,d00       00      esC2
Office Eqoipsat                              sr             10.1                 -          -            -        1.0.7DOC                                         -          -           .                                   1        1,0c00              OP              56
lnitil Sio  -s,P-- o.00/                                        --                                    tompOos    7,101          -          -           .          -           --                                          Looopsn     7,00                 OS)             31
So-odVehite- and St-p-et                                                                                420011                                                                                                              112,000               62              29
Polood O01~, to   -ding Platfor
Sidio, Polsooio                             is..           211500.00             -                      .1       79,151         .                                                                                           .8        39,000               37              10
Btol.,k   so .iii                           m                     .00            -1.                   t          2,10          -          -            .                     -                                  -          lO         2,000               30 
Coepsood Enott Pittl                                             2.00            .                   5  11        6,011         -                                                                                        5,20          6OOc                60              20
soil C-LoOofo                               o                     .O                        .         ,t         j51            -                                             -          -.                      -        ,t           5,  1o1                             13
Sot-Totnl Rnilonod S0d0n0  -no londin       ofor                                                              10,11110,00 iCn4                                                                                                                                          12
D-metit 05sightt
O~itght via Railsty                         To/Ie                .10                                6  7,000     10,00          -          -                       .          .           .                            767,000        1500                 52              IC,
totl-TSotn1 Ifengt                                                                                            15,100                                                                                                              15,000                52              16
5.1l1ttlCosts                                                                                           2074000                                                                                                              270,000                50             1.6
0O0E0AT01G COSTS
Staff
Sospsrlts,-d-t                               so/r            , 0C0.1            -           .                                   1        2,100         1           MO01       I        2,000          1        2,000         4.        9.000--
boo-   lsOt "k                                                910.00             -          -                                   1        1.000          1       1,000         1        1,000          1        1,011          4.       4,700o 
J-slor -onl                                     0             Eo.oo              -                                                       1,101          2        1,000        0        1,000          2        2,0C00         0        5,71                -        
Otoolos,ao                      "              301.0~~~~~~~~~O0                                                 6         1,110         0        0,110        6        2,000          6        2,000         2),       7.000--
irises                          "             ~~~~~~~           ~     ~    ~~                                                    ~~6C00.0     --    -  I  -    I        1,000o        I         1,00          1         ,11         
410.00            -          -             -          -          0        lOQ                     1,000        1           -                                             ,00 -o
bards   ,                                      711.11            -          -             -          -          1          -            2~~'o.)O    1,000     2           -2                   1,10 m                  1,01 Om
So.bTotal Staff                                                                                                                      '110                    9,000                  s0,11                 11,000                  351,000-
WiilNr01.0                                 yr              1,200.10            -I-                      -          -01                                1        1,000         1        20C            1        1,110          4        50                  77              17
Cob-Total Vohtolo CT:-rt-o                                                                                                            1,000                  1 ,011 c               2,000                   1,000                   5,110               77              1
Bator                                       m5                   1.17            -          -             .          .    11,000         3,000    11.010         5,00    11,110        5,C10   3100,01                  440,111       12,00031                              23
offooolotloo                     7sr.r.            300.0             .          -             .                     1        0,0CO1-   S1              -          1                  L -9I            -           0,000 LPS   3                 St              19
ftitooo    i lt"tr, ...0 9/             po  00.           0.2-                       -.                                                    Inap 01t      500Do   on             500      lm   o         ,0       mp10            .0                  01
Cot.Tosl llooltsotot  p-tooto  o-te                                                                                            4,0cc                  60,10                  0,010                   8O,c                 26,1C1                43              19
TotsI OSoroti,                                                                                                                          1 t  2,10               i6,000                10,010                  20,010                  00,00                 03  .9
Total Itat bal    0o'Oy 010000i Toed                                                                            171, 000                12,010                  16,110o               19,101                  20,010                 336,1cc               45               is
2/ Tn-ldee  -ate  sopplo  -yrmn  and p
A/  l--sos  see 10  of salay foe ols-tfied onplopee- and 1710 for  -o-lsll                   eploy-eo   Sbo-titanlay all staff
po-O  Ld 010_ or tor  par lose sos ol-ifitd.  A lp01i  -orpoostico mot pap anamot coon  to 159 of the clasified
011100050 s-o-es Soto ole_  oso tPonsi- fond.  i--n-otsfied sm1lys-  ar  onto eligible for soial sesoity
--vett  odlil ool    .ts00100  an snoot  -oos  0.0 io5ronl-tto,o 3  of thie Sr  alay.  Tie re-Inig 1100 aoamle-o-
-stiosl  of tO, noretao t of al -ono                 -tossd to poblio  -orporatone..    ote
4/No  --t000-  os~t--cantehol  first fyr- oso    ion  somitdsod i/2 es-timtd aaost tie  --osd year
bol  Ol  1971






5000T,    01                                                                                                        TtaS
Peg  1.           --
7(00   0                                                                                                                 7
I-a                                                                                           37,0~~~~~~~~~~~Ta,  Yt?oaa                0,0YaS00r                                                            osa--Fol,                               To.o
OOctcrtoaryotffooc.lltors         No.3               7 .0.00         -                        7         7,0          -            -                                 -            - 
toO'' orate ooooa 71'       No.            10,510.00~~~~2       -0-                      0        37,070                                                                                                                                     6  -- -  0,0
Oooo,Noloaloar      No.                85.oo            -           -            o~~~~b    --           -                       -           --                                -              
SoC-Total OmIlasooga                                                                           70,800~~~~hl1,~2  II.I                                                                                                79E0
oOoo 21000008500 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                               1,B9",i                                                                                                                               6oo                  44-
6-  [1-k7                   0~It.t2--                                                               10,000           03,00       -                                                                                        5,0                0
toI,-0x os- 00½  Fra5aroioo                                                                                      0  WC                                                                                                                  8 
,thO Co-toro                                 o                    10            -           -         89            00                                                  --                            -                     04,3700
E-o?0Oo0oo.O I                                                                               -       0,205         10,000       I            -                                                                                              o  ---  .00
Sotat-0 I'0                                                                  -                    1,05         1000'         -66 .                                          -            -          -10000                                                 00              '
0000 - Ooo  010   ,ooooo
Oaaooo 2oSOqr  nod 0001                                                                       1
-    4-O                                                O So r900t16a.-                    00,           S8.?          -                                   -         -            -                                 8          18000                                1
00oa1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ POpo 001  - 0l 8 
001E" rrOrcoo   7,N                                                                            -                           4    8, ' o'                                               
oSa -aoSo        a-0d-                                                                  -       0                          0           .0                                                    
Sar1 topSoos..  - i/o" i  Or Baoa            a3                                 -            -                                               -           -           -
Ooa.oao0oaoooo                   a~        ~         ~~~~.45  5o-050  3-1 -                                         0           .00                      .         -                       -00
Ooolooolos-OotoiSoo   00.                              -           -                                 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  1 . 29  2'.00  3-  .       -            - 
OsA- loOOI'.oj -aoa                          Io.                  -0                                                         -I 10]        I,0           -                                  -          -                                   0                  58              10
raosa  (0010 Oooooaora? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 2oc
Pslso Ooomaoo aS 00 Sahad    o.                                 -            -         o80          -. 0       1~          i                                                                                              2-~' -4       8
BsSaoN.a11100"g-Oooto-Oao..ao  o.      0           -            -                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0,  00.  0000~                                                                                                    4         00  0  .  5
Oslt. oopor  o/o --'o 3oo-tosoo.                                                                      4-                                                           -                                  -007
Olroar                                        oa-oo          30.0                -           -            ", ,Otlooo                       30            -                                                                O0SO            5000                cO               `
'arcs'  Past Pole soaP Tilt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                                    n
1.00    _474                                                                                                                   .474~~~~~~~~~~~~  - -  0  0,0    0                E






AN150 4
LIVSTCK K502U5nn  051E222
5b) ToaosCfanno
CaISKaC and CpsSaTKoog Costs-Or lasso - KS,ni - Ononor Oloilono. 100,011 0,50,E                                     I.-        6 
0020yd.                                                        o.o                                                  SO     22            -                                                                                2                                           1,2000S
SOdranS,                    no.                22~~~~~~~~~~~11.2  -                   2020C                              -                                                                    -          C                             59C
Olson,, 000200,             00.              ~~~~~~~                                             ~         ~~~0-02  21 - -                                                                               22         OV                 K'             15
.T    td               S6o  l2'-             n.            6.000.2            -6210                                          -                                                                                                     1.221               14             02
nooot-  ft T                                OA              0,22,0            -                                     0        -           -          -                                                                              020                  65
OO pnS.oO000021                        5.205                              -           -                               2~.2         5,20                                                                            2    -- -00  ,00
OyOaoo t1.                                                     C-S                            2-                            CO         100                                                                                0        toO0
loon000 Koo,p              I,.             1,521~~~~~~~iic.0  -           -           -           -         0         5,00          -                                 -          -2                               3.00W
1upv0200015g-38*  n.            'SC            -           -           -           -       000         0,1000        -           -         -           -          -           -         200        2,001~~~~~~~~6 
0SoiKSn. t-Kog                       0                   .5-l,                                              -      600            -                                -           -          -                      0,         220 
SOnoOlinoSSnas    no.             0,1.00.20          -           -           5         5,002       -           -          -           -         -            -          -           -     ~    ~ ~ ~~~ 3  3.7                               02
Kospsro,oO                   no.           22~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~,312.0  -14 '0                                                                                          -          --                      3       -510                  03
onsr1o-oo                                   So              6,02.0            -                       3-   K2,OO             -                                  -         -           -                                            6.02                36             6
01450010_010SPl10.                                          0,CO.0                                    w --      6,000.       -           .          -           -                                                                  1200o               t              i
Orolon  lo.  1,000.00  -          -           3         3,212       -           -           -           -         -           -          -           -           3        5,020               05             06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~39
2501 a-0'no                               a                0.0             -           -           -           -         3         000           -           -         -           .          --0                              220000
Er0.n520OlrotSt                                             0200                           -           0         00                                                                                                                 ,1.610
0-1000g2                                    T-o.          0150,0              -2 -                     .         1-    0.90.          20,22         -                                                              43, 1.1520,01
nonoln                                  5.             5,30021            .57.                                            '.       502 M-                             -           -                                   1        1',22              56              15
SuNg                         21.           20.500,00           -           -           -            -    0.905         02,212        .           -         -           -          -            .       .0121       20,00                30  14.0,
SoS. soP Uo                                 0o.            O011                   -                                .        I          0, 0                               3         3'-7        2-                     C1.       3fl,00,1
no.--'IS.. Oso4oy 00000                                                                                        -,4.                                                                                                            -7,00
G-looo,O                                                      9000            .                     02                                                        5.-02                              3   t     022~       015          702                 - 
Jn,IooClr,                                                    800.0                                                          6                      0          ,022                                        400            3       ot0 
Alnsn                                                          2.0                                                 -        0          212.        6         00,002 5,0                                                 1"        .00.-
4 hoar P0ik-p-                                                                                      C.                       0         00                     202                   0,00                    45.0-                                      -
SCinsanon,                 -           -            .           -                   0002                  10,021                1.200'                 26.,3ZI2               '6000               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il  -  7  '
nob-nol- 0t,00-ti-,                                                                                                                            14,002                                         "I.02                                      77 ,02
OsOisO.ssar,0 LoLIpoOKS 210005005~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OIg.,Prso,noaOnoop                Oo.~1-1           -0.7                        -            -                                                        .5                                           .04770
TOt.-oa   shOo   501-  na52,1S0                                                                                                                              ,2                                           5.202                                      '0
T,  -1, -t- 1.2                                                           -            .           .                             , 02         00.2.20                  0   20''t,2                                                     0 
I 0000-022                        210.            20.2             .                        .           -                                .         1,00        1          .020 S:.0
00,0000225.000                                  y,          50,              -. -P.,1                                                                           O         0         5200.I
00 -bo     -Ooos.0,ooo   onsoOoo  Col.                                                                                                                 0.00                  '.20 -00 -
no-rol       th0000  01a1n     0t,f221'200                                                                                                                   08.200                20.00...0 t
TCS 1,0I01977      S0S0015a,o.55                                                                                 5.0                                            00.0020300100                                                                            .






SUOAN
lIIESTOCK M5I6KSTIU  PROJECT
(b) Transport Infr-atrootnre
Capital aad Operating Costs - Sob. BRily Terminal YCrd
(fsd )
Year 1                 Year 2               Year 3                Year 4               Year S                 Tear 6              Years I _ 6              Poreign       Taxes and
Item                        USat            Oott Cost        Salts     Cost         Units     Coat       Salts      Coat       Saits      Cost      Units      Cost        Salts     Cost        Total      Total           Enehawga     DSUae.
Units      Cont
CAPITAL COSTS
Boildisg.
OffIo                                     No.            5,232.00                     _            1       5,000        -          -          -          _         _          _           -                     1        5.000              52             15
Veteri-ry Stor/Offio                      No.            2,200.00                                  1          0         -          -           -         -          -         -           -          -          1        2,000              52             15
Guord  ouse/Store                         No.              800.00           -         _            1        1,000       -          -          -          -          -                                            I -  .   1  1,000          52             15
Gurd Shelter                              No.               65.00                     _            2          -                                                                                                 2          -                52             1i
Toilets                                   Set              275.00                     _            2       1,000        -          -          -          -         -          -           -          -          2        1,000              52             1i
Workers Shade                             No.            1,000.00                                  I _  1   1,000       -          -          -          -          -         -           _          _          1        1,000              52             15
Middle Grade Moose                        No.           12,300.00           -         -            1      12,000        -          -                                                                            1       12,000              52             15
Junior Grdae dn-se                        No.            7,300.00           -         -            5      22,000        -          -          -          -          -         -           -                      3      22,000              52             15
1-dintg  aP                               No.            1,560.00                                  1       2,000        -          -           -         -         -          -           -          -          1        2000               55             19
S0b-Total Buildings                                                                                    46,oDo                                                                                                        46,0o0              52             15
Site Prearation
ESrlirork                                 a5                 1.25           -         -        6,ooo        8,0U0       - O                    -         -          -         -           -          -      6,000        8,00o              68             25
Drainage Strootores                       Luep Sun       3,00O.00                                               0 p     _n         _           _         _          _          _          _ -                            3 000              54             21
Sob-Total Site Prep-rstion                                                                             11,000                                                                                                        11,000              64             24
Pens and SnElosores
Ledinn Pes 1/                                                             -                        -       17,00        -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -                  17,000              53             14
Soldiag Pne J1
Eoo-sta Post Role. and Fill
eith Congrets                            No.                5.40           -         -          704       4,000        -          _           -         -          -          -          -          - _        Ie       4 00U              35             10
Steel Pipe Posts - 2" d                   a-                 5.30                                                  -         - 2,300  12'000                                                                2,6                                            16
steel Pip.e Ril - 2d                                         5 60           -         -        1,300       7,000        -          -          -          -          -          _          -          -      1,300        7,000              56             14
Steel Ppe Shade Sepport - 2"                                 5 a  5.60      _         -        1,400        8,000       -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -      1,400        8,ooo              56             14
Steel Pipe Puslina - 1" $                 ,                  3.80           -         -        6,co0       23,000       -          -           -         -          -          _          _          -      6,ooo       23,000              56             14
Shade MttiDg                              a2                 .o 40          _                  3,000        1,000       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -      3,000        1,000              -              -
Rabar RSils - 1/2"                        a.                 0.50           -         -        9,100        5,000       -          -           -         -          -          -          -          _      9,100        5,000               64            16
Reb r Droppers                            a0.55                             -         -          800          -         -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -         6Y0          -                54            16
6- Sook Bolts-  25-                       No.                0.79           -         -          500          -         -50                                                                                                 -                56            16
6- Hook Bolt. - 15c.                      No.                0.58           -         -        3,850        2,000      3-          -           -         -          -          _           _         -       3850        2,000               56             14
6    U-Bolts - 10                        No.                0.53           -         _        5O00        2,000        -                                                                                                2 -  -  -  -  -  -  3,000  2,000  56  14
Gates                                     No.               75.00           -         -           76        6,ooo       -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -          72        6,000              56             14
9-,nsate Post Nol-c and Fill
elth Conorste                            No.                5. 40                    -          122        1,000       -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -         122        1,000              35             10
StesisPipe Posts - 2"                     a                  5.30           -         -          300       2,000        -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -         300       2,000               56             14
Steel Pipe Sail - 2" 0                    a                  5 60           -         -          390       2,0OO        -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -         390        2o000              56             16
Reb-r RSil - 1/2" 0: a.                                      o0 s                     -        2,700        1,000       -          -           -         _          _          _           _         -       2,700        1,000              564            16
Met-n  Droppers - i/'a0.55                                                  -         -          200          -         -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -         200          -                54             16
6e Hook BoltS_ 25e                        No.                0.79           -         -          150        I _         _          _           _         _          -          _           _         -         150          -                56             14
6as Nook Bolts - l5c                      No.                O.58           _         -        1,Obo        1,0i0       -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -       1,050        1,000              56             14
Walla asd Gates
Peeiaeter   sll                           a.                16.20                                                       -          - 718  11,000  -  -2-                                                                 11,000              15              5
Gates                                     No.              150.00                                           1 0          -         -           -          -         -          -                      -          4        1,000              56             14
Sub-Total Pen  sand Eneloneras                                                                        106,o0o                                                                                                       1o6,ooo               50            1i
S. . Anne 4 Table 9 for details.
9  Cost pr holding pen  1ess than holding yard  becsase penn haye  ocn separating faes instead of -eh pan bng separated.






ANNEX 4
SMU                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 2
Capital -ol Cperaio   -toot  - lola Rallons   ariral Used
le-r                    te-  2eaY.Oaar                                                      YearS                  le-anY-  d ro-                                 Forign          T-eso
Itoo                          Unit           [[Tit Cost        mite       Coat            ns      Cost       ltte        Cos          nt ot Uit                ts     C oon       [rt-ostoa                            oa             E-oh- g,        tlo
lots       Cost 
CAPITAL CUlTS (Coetiasd)
Intaka itt...oe                              n              ,coC.0             -          -             I        Colt0                                                                                                     I -    -    -                 1              o
loenp Oloec                      [a~      ~        ~~~~~~          ~~2 70.10 - -            i6        1II)                                                                                                     1 -  -_ -  --  -2                             to
Pnaops                                      To.               itt.0o                                    I         1,110       -                      -           -                     --                                                               56              -4
Eorre                                       No.             1,200.01          2-2- 000)                                       -          -            -          -                                                                  2oto                S6i
SIPpio  Cping- " ca                                             6.50           -                      ii         0,100        -          -                      -           -          -           -                                                    ml              t
Dietriloetin  Piping -1                      .4.25                             -           -          lo         1.00         -                       -          -          -                      --                   1,  Ct                          t                4L
El-otodPooro        o-10a                   Us.           12,401.o0            -           -            0        20000                                                                                                              2 --  --    -       I. 4
Ipireona                        [~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~No  00.00                          6   i    1,)                                                                                             -                                      On              IL
Water Troghs  (Cattle)                      [Sn.              100cC                                    20        6.)                     -            -          -          -                                                                            4 .or
Tom-Tntel Water-   PU                                                                                        O 000ly2q5(0                                                                                                                    ~        4             1
Eon,lmp- lt or- io-h i/                                                                                           lCo           ---                                                                                                  [1000nO
SinliogF Orsn -o                           ta.            21.C)l.CO            -          -           4oho      oo.o OD                                          -          -          -                              0.410        1,,0>,-                              IC7
bitch  Poin[                    ~~~~           ~~~~~~No.  2,110.01  -                                 29[          -                                  -          -          -                                   1        24000               o
IsoTo    airrl . il.nd                                                                                 C2 000                                                                                                              l0120               01              10
Total  oriLo' Coons                                                                                           24Cdo- 
OPIIR[TIN0 tOOTS
-etaon Iooronodol-                                          TOOt2                                                -           01          -COn)      1        2,00         I        1,00           -         ,10 
JonoOel                                                      00                                                                       .01           2        000          2        2'>)          2         0,00          4                                            -c
AZ    t-tea  S"----                                           300,.01-O                                                      1I        LnlO 00       1          .000       0-       lO             1         .0                                            
Teller   '-                                                  i-c.o             -                                              1        1,000          I                   1,01 1'=                           -:O                                        -               -'
Oeetayinsit                                                    W.200,0          -                                  -          [        1. 000,        1          1,0        2        1.00          1          ,tC                                          
ioeroe                        000.00            -          -             -          -          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  1.00    D,00  IL  1.0                    0,0050                  7
ill-Potal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1O 11 ila6CO                                                                               16,02 OU- 1>                                                 6        21.0          24           n
Tellols Oreration ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~60.OC
Voo POol     t-op                           par             L,00.01--                                   -                             056             I       fr0cr2        0       4,67           1        1220c          4          O*C                               1
PlOer                                       prlO           1,000.0>            .           .            -                     -        000            0       1,000         1        10-00         1        0.000         I-        4000                00
intro                                       L0                  L.7             -                                                      2oo  , oo   L-,00      6,00   ,0.00           1,00)   00,10          6,0       000           000
toboTnasip ['trslsnen2 poallg                                                                                                       1,00                    010                   1t001~1,0                                      50 0)00                              17
Ton> 0000snirO  bapss  ti27,000                                                                                                                         2.-,%                  1,0DO0                30.00                  Ill 00                77              17
Totsl lost lola Teraloal Inn                                      lii,))                    00,000                 21,000                33,000                  55.000                069 COO                10             11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  2
W n7sa Wop6so 4 Onb6ie C                                                                                                                                                                 On Con letnilo.xc                             , S
Of Aloeoe   re29ofrIe0   o  cio            -te  erlo-    e  and 131 Or   cn-oosItfed e                                                                                                1ooea.On,Itanto4 Tnil  ta
Jos  27, 1977, d 11






ANNEX 4
SUDAN                                                                            Table 13
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(c) Market Infrastructure
Summary
Years                                           Years 1 - 6               Foreign         _axes anc
Item                                1             2              3            4             s             6            Total Cost               Exchange        Duties
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings and Access                               -            92,000       229,000       119,000        1,000           -            441,000                     52              1s
Pens and Enclosures                                -            84,ooo       181,000        98,000       23,000         11,000         397,000                     42              10
Water Supply                                       -           299,000        28,000          -            -              -            327,000                     56              20
Vehicles and Equipment                             -           294,000        69,000          -            -              -             363,ooo                    64              27
Site Preparation                                   -            17,000        21,000          -            -              -             38,000                     66              25
Domestic Freight                                   -            11,000         8,ooo         3,000        2,000           -              24,oo0                    59               16
Total Capital Costs                                         797,000       536,000      220,000        26,000         1l,OOC       1.590,000                     50              18
OPERAllNG COSTS
Staff                                            41,000         82,000       129,000       182,000      206,000        244,000         884,000                     -                -
Vehicle Operation                                  _              -            2,000        12,000       17,000         17,000          48,ooo                     77               17
Miscellaneous Operating Costs                      -             5,000        10,000        23,000       41,ooo         51,000         130,000                     49               19
Total Operating Costs                         41,000         87,000       141,000       217,000      264,000        312,000      1,062,000                       9                3
Total Investment Cost of Markets                 41,000        884,ooo       677,000       437,000      290,000        323,000       2,652,000                     35               12
June 28, 1977






ANNEX 4
SUDAN                                                                     Table 14
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(c) Market Infrastructure
Terminal Markets
Summary of Investment Costs
(£Sd)
Years                                                Years 1 - 6            Foreign         Taxes and
Item                             1              2              3              4             s              6            Total Cost             Exchange        Duties
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings and Access                                -          92,000          15,000           -              -              -             107,OOC                  55                17
Pens and Enclosures                                 -          84,ooo          21,000           -              -                            105,000                  4s                11
Water Supply                                        -          62,000           2,000                          -              -              64,ooo                   s6               21
Equipment and Vehicles                              -          73,000             -             -              -              -              73,000                   60               32
Site Preparation                                    -          17,000             -             -              -              -              17,000                   64               24
Total Capital Costs                                        328,000          38,000                                                       366,ooo                   54               19
OPERATING COSTS
Staff                                             11,000       18,000          30,000         38,000         39,000         48.ooo          184,000
Miscellaneous Operating Costs                       -             -              7,000          1,00         18,000         19,000           55,000                   51               19
Total Operating Costs                          11,000       18,000          37,000         49,oOO         57,000         67,000          239,000                   12                4
Total Investment Cost Terminal Markets            11,000      346,oon          75,000         49,ooo         57,000         67,000          6Os,000                   37               13






N---NN   ZN-N  N-9N--IN                                 N          N--NN  N--NN                  N9 N-----NNNN     N-                                            N
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                                   R-    NINN                        N  9         r5ng.no  r|           9rg    t9BzU~~fiON    9N-N-NI:; zc 15  
,~~~~~~~OI NN.   u    N    N   N    N                                                                   ~WI      t          ou N*G  1-   N    0  a  .N'N  N   N ,D 
N                                   SN    -N          N   N-   N           ON  I        N   N-                N t_Se N     N    '                0       Ns N'                  N-  r      N O
O                                              N- .     1.                                 a0N                                                              -                                 
N           N-NN                                                NN                                                               -'                    -      N                                
! N                                   N-   N   52p!3aaS2z                                                   5g  Gt!!!e                 5ef!!!!5                                         eOOz2t!
SN  N-  N-N-NN-N-N- NOON-NON-  N-N-N-ONNNN-      '   Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-NNNN-    N-N-N-US  NUN                                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N                   N  b e o oo 9 
N-N-N          N-N--N--N-NN-NN-NN-N                           N-N-NN-N--N-N                I   N-NN-NN-NN-N                   N-N-N- N N-NNN                                ---N   ---O
N-N-N          N-N--N--N--N-NN-NN-N                           N-NN-NN-NINN                      Na-N-NN--N                    N-NN-NN-NN-N                                N-N-NN-N-NN-N-N
N-N-N-~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ N-------NNNNNN  N--------NNNNNNNN            NNNNNO--NNNNNNNNN
N-~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N----N-NNNNN  N- NNNI------'                      I
IN-_ N-   N------NNINN                 N----NNN                        Nr--N  ----                     NNN N N
N-N-         N-'-N--N--N-NN-NN-N                            N-N-NN--N--N                       N-N-NN-N-N  N-N-oo N-N-N-N-N-N-N-IN
|+ | > >~~~~~~~~N                                                N-N               N----NIN                                      N-N-                       N-NNNN           N-O oo   o| goo on-7ND-N
INO  'NNINNI-NNN                                          N-'I'bgg  o NN-             N-   N--  INN--N                   ''''IN-N- I° N-  (                               --NINN-N                                            N-R  N-e
N-   Ii                 's-            N----                     -          N
W       -N                                                                          N-   ON       N--NN                            N-N                        N-  'NNNN    N-N-N-N-s|         IIII@         IIsEb        wEEIs 
I~~~~N   N-N    N-N-   N--NN                                   N-          N-N               N- N            ----N                                                      -    -NN         ----N
N-N                     N-NNN----NNN                                IN      N--N                       N------No-                           N
N-N-~~ N- NNNNNNNNNNN  -------NNN-NNNN                                                -----N'NNNNNNNNN 
N-  IN-N-I  N-N-IN-N-IN-N-IN-N-ON-    W       II  INC                 N-   ON-I   N- N- NN                II''I  N--                             N-   |@a  IN----NNNN              e        N
O   I N-N-  N- N-   N-N-   N-N-   N-N-N-N-  N-   N-N-  N-  N-N-  N-N- N-N-               N-N-                       N-  I N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-               ON~~~~
N-7       o N-NINN-NN--N N-NNN                                  N--NNN--NN                                                                                             N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-rv  owN-
N-  N--N         N----NNN  N---NN                               N-N  N-N-N-N-N-oo    oS   0o  t   N-  N-   N----NNNN            N----NNNN                              N-  N-N-Nr-N-N-o-N-N-N'                  SI
I 3 Ft  Zr rr wt st>   r   rr                > Nr  rtVOr                                   rr,                      | > SrOr=ofOOr:-O                          0  l~~~~~~~






e ~ ~ ~ ~ i Ir                          1'- ri  x,| 
00000~0000V~:220~2200Kz;o -;                   - - -:-     .12 . .1.
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
,~ ~~K , ag3                            I ,   .......
~~~~~~~~*       2                                                              Ft n:0000                                  0000Bt ;  22 °00>  2        0 ) 8D5                                  
2                     -
,2                                                                                      00           000          00               000000   00.00  =   a   '   3
00000              20000000000 a-' O00000000000                                                    0000000 H--0-
0oo  0ic        0      0   _    0_0 8v
o2              2 S o   . o o o o o o o o o o         q     ~    ° ~ o °o .n ° s O S o E E S     o S o S M  - S S E o        r
S g O S o s ~~~~~I                                   V                                                                 000       VI||IaI|II         
rF   t  s  O n D ||E~~~~~211                                  L                I~IS1;;;;;                      I ~; F 2 n
D P~ i  9| ;  mN  NP  EX  _<  vv  vv  ~o o  goo  oo                                                                           2222                               20  1:n 
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  10 IES      S  o 0     °IEC° 0OO E Il                                                                  IE E00  900000
r                 S
00 00 0                                                                                                                           n 0000
0    E     0  |IE00O   I     00        -S°°°°SEEEs= 
0S     V        2          E           
0 "    0v [LVWI °         EES°S|s  I   E°°°8EoRc SLooooO sg 0l I00000
10  cb  0100              0100    000000                            K      9oScvo    u >               s  C rrgggg      
2 ~  ~~~ ~ 200000                                      '*        ''' N                          .''N ''  NNWt N           ottr    






3.  9~~~~     9~~~fl 999.. ... ..
.   .   .   .   .   .   ._ .   .   .
&    ~               ~-                                0 o9                                                                                                                                       ok   9 9~ 
00000           0000o                 oww oou@> 0°° °° '..'00'    |    0  <        00'             **_>'                                      ..0. ..00 000 00
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,,                                                                                              ,,,    .   . ,   .   , ,  .   . , , .   ,., 
4w  E_B8000 @tww88 008r8 r 09900a 0~ 00                           0<                                                                                                                               70  0  0 99000003  .309
181   8                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9           4 
1 8'0°8'00'              8° 09        00 0                       9          00              0               00                                                     8100000000   oo00  _
10 0  0w                         999 r999 g                                0g              0   -           00                         999                             00090             000.0VgggggWrwur >rCggrruZ                v-,www         
99  09999  9-9,099999,999999999999  9,999999999,990  99  9999999999999999        9909,999-99990                         0009999999999999999999_9                    9 _  _  99,,,9 u   r   S 
_~~~~~~~~~99009                                                                w99         tD>¢CuD>           O  DDDrboOP  D  O                  999000009                            D     94 e  DO_39>U  






ANNEX 4
SUDN                                                                                                  Table 16
Page 2
Cepiet aOoentC,nU--s- Doab  Teetinai Darken
145d0
Yesro                    Yeee,2                Yeer 3                   YesreS                  YearS                 YearS 6nYa- l- 6                                 Foriga          Yaseesad
1-e                            Unit            Cal Ca               i T1. Ic ac           fie         Cst        fsi         Cs              -ot      Cat          ots.   tCtI          Estee       nes         Total      Total             lonissog.          se
Seel) Arleai strket
Ea.pn,c                                  ,.2                 7000C                                                          16  - U    0,000         --                                 -          --                      16         1,SOS                52              15
taste                            Dn~       ~       ~~~~~~          ~      ~     ~           ~     ~~~. DEC -  -  2  1,CO00-                 --                          -  -                                        2         1,000                56              14
CEino                                       On               ,D5C                           -           U          2CU            -000-                                                    -                                   2         2, W0                U6              14
"t,                              H.~~~~S.        2,OO0.0CC                                   1          2.CO000                                           -         -          -                                   5          2SG O54                              21
tarpsrnio2oa                                2.Ot                               -0 U                                0,0         -                                                                                              00--  U    U,SUD                56              14
Uttn iUinr1p,iSg 1n                    0.                    .25 '                                41          (Ci          -           -           --                     -           -           --                    415         US2                  Si              1
flydrons.                                    N..                22CC0           -                      42          l,CI                     -          --                      -                                             42          i,ow                 56              14
rantootas                   Na.                 5~~~~    ~     ~      ~    ~      ~     ~~          ~     ~ ~        ~~~~~~0.00  -                                            -                                6           -                  36              14
Data Yaaatia  (Cottin)           S~~       ~~~~~N.  11.0            -22                                 2,000       -            -          --                      -           -          --                      22         2,000                54              2
Stint Yanuato  (thano)      Sn.                 56~~~     ~    ~     ~    ~      ~ ~       ~ ~~...  -  -  48  2,000                                                                                                                                          I'll ----  5DSC  42
El...Tatd t--aa0  Yani                      in.             6,45t.Ct           -                         1         ECUu        -            -          --                                                                      1         SNO00                54              21
S.b-aT-l Este  Snpply                                                                                         19,000                  1,CUU                                                                                        200.0CC                55              iS
At ;-t Cl-kt 2 ,h                          Na..            40CU                                       .            .0                                                                                                      St5          0,000                74             62
iUtt kan Ttisl-sseNa                                     4,y8tiU                         -                      2,OOU       -                                     -         -           -                                             50,800               34              62
__                                 N..             4,300.00           -                      0.          2,U0                                                                                                       .           2,0000               D              14
-eat-at- .U0~                                o                 tSU                 10t,UUU                                     -                       -             - 45-0                                        -           1         ISl                  70              1a
Snail Tanis                                 LastIn          2,000.00           -                    Iari-          2.US        -            -          -                                                                  Lse  SEX       2.000                75              20
Cli..tii-  Eqi,-ot ..eI.                                      5500                                                  ,00        -            -          --                      -           --1  1                                        1,60                 5               12
itttco Uqnipeosr                 toe~~~~~~~~~.   2.270.00           -                        1          2,2500      -I                                                                                                        2,0000               60              32
tn~aia5SpsaaTnrts-  basplan          700              -p-                         -       5,000       -                                                           -          --                  IeeSm          (000603
Snb-Tntel.1   ion   I ih,il-                                                                                   30,0U00                                                                                                                30,000               55              34
tE-theak                                     3125                               -           -       3,500          4,000       -3                                                                                          ,50t          4,000                68              2
_Ci.:g. tiatCe_a_ta_,000                                                                           Last i-       2DU0S         -                                     -         -          -                                    i-        2.00054l
Unt-Tatso Site Enopotatian                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,000  6,0tt  63  24
T-1te  Cetitel  ncc100, 000                                                                                                              25.000                                                                                        186,000                53              19
AsSloS-- nekesing OfOOer ...ce                              2,7000              -           -                                             2,000         1          2,00        1         3000         13.00t                   4        12,00                 -               -
Darfies Steetor                 a            i,20U.UU           -            -           -            -         1         bOSS          1           0,0CC:2001 1,0       1,0                       ,0                     t,0t0               --
An,.....a                                     a            100.00                                                             2          2.000        2           2.0t0       2         2,0000       2          2,200         a         0,000--
(naiaD  CinaC/tashisa         000.00           -            -            -           -         1          1.000        I           0.000       1         1.000       1           1.020         4         OcOtO                -               -~~~~~~~I1,00  I  ,000  I 1,00  1  ,00  4 
JaiC I      kDOC                                a               DUO             -           -                                  3          1.000         3          2,C         3         2,000       3           2.000        12        0700                  - 
Ce-ei-er  UAe.t...                                          1,25DS                                                   -          2         200           2          2005         2         ,51         2          300           I        1.0 
600.00           -2                                                           -,0        1                       1        1000         1          3,000         4         2tU--
Ut, Lana          400.00            -           -            -           -         4            -          4           0,000       4         2.000       4           2,020        10         6,000                -               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   1  001    20 
Aataadoatn                                     3~~~~0U.00                                                       4         100           4          0,000        4        1.0000       4           2.0         11           .2                    
Utotde                       300.00           -            -           -            -         4         1,000         4          0,000        4        2,000        4          1,000        10          5,000       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:10  4T 0.  V  2   41,000 16  0 
All..ets                                     Wtop Sn       13,0'00.000                                                     L  - - nR~ Sa-.0          sp Sas        3.000   ticci  3s,2000   LapSo                4,000   StpO.           15.00-
ta,b-aT-t  tS-5                                                                                                                       14,000                  C80,SD                21,000                   23,000                  76,000--
tiacleea    - scitic    Caste
On,na         Ic3                  0.20           -           -            -           -    4,500           1.000   4.100            1,003  4.000          1.000  3,100            2.000  19.200          5,000                 31              22700  ,W~4,90  0   ,1002.00  19200 5 0  1  2
lasit                        Pearson           UDODO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,2   -    -           -                      0            -                        -         0        000          i.00                      4      .2,00                   51 
C to COOOSOIDS  yes yoor    2,210.00            -           -            -           -          1         1,000         1          i.C0U        1        2,000        1 .        1,110         4        5.000                 00              07 1,00  l  0001   -  ""
Ittite Ua~~~~tp10cs  6/     pet pest          400.~~~~~~00      -                                               1         1,000         I            -          T        1,0200      1T                        4        2,000.                74              ii
ttioaain   ta-a-ss-                   Ore P..           2i/2             -            -           -           -     L-psipte          _     L.ip So         2.000   tntp Sa       4.000  tLopitt          4.000  Loe,in         lOtto0                 50              iS
-,--fita  Nitleen    pss-n  Cst                                                                                                       3,000                    4,002                 5,000                   0.000                 24.000                 54               00
lab-T-il  prD eCaer                                                                                                                   17ro0o                   2Dec80               30.000                   31,000               100,002                 13                4
.,a  Dn   ,-  -eaLe                                                                                       168,000                 42,000                   22.0.0                30,000                  31,000                293,110                 39              14
5  ......as  o.o25 n.  celey.. S     Wlao .2U        I ....y.s a.tE 130 Cat nan-I...sitt-d  -sla...... iibc oail.yel  oeO
pol  IE 50  rans   sa  ee  en  ae fifd.  A pablia a-pteta. J-          o   n~nts~n   C1?   taeaoeCe
nirlttCis   ealnajecinto Ohs    .   -tsr,ea  penoa- Sand.  NVn-alolTfdseUye i5Dl   lnftotnealleant
anantoassiih  a nese te eaplapsaen ennant  qat   aprentt   S   Oitl    eey    OTs. -enini,  15 Ossni.                  n
esOSo5s  S te ovesgeomnss s  olleenoi geace   Stpubi   CpestN    sly
h/CCtacrNSr.nEsseblrteefeemleissnlslfetetdoalobalgtsdee






ANKUX 4
SUDAN                                                             Table 17
LIVESTOCK MAFKETING PROJECT
(c) Market Infrastructure
Secondary Markets
Sunmary
(£Sd)
Years                                            Total               Foreign            Taxes and
Item                               1             2            3             4                           6       .Years 1 -6             Exchange           Duties
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings                                         -             -         155,000        90,000         1,000                       246,000               52                15
Pens and Enclosures                               -             -         160,000        86,ooo          -                          246,000              441                10
Water Supply                                      -          237,000       26,ooo          -             -                          263,000               56                20
Vehicles and Equipment                            -          221,000         -             -             -              -           221,000               63                28
Site Preparation                                  -             -          21,000          -             -              -            21,000               67                25
Domestic Freight                                  -           11,000        8,o            _             -              -            19,000               57                16
Total Capital Costs                                       469,ooo      370,000       176,000         1,000                     1,016,000               53                18
OPERATING COSTS
Staff                                           30,000        64,ooo       91,000       119,000       121,000        150,000        575,000               -
Vehicle Operating Costs                           -             -           2,000         6,ooo         4,000          4,ooo         16,000               77                 17
Miscellaneous Operating Costs                     -            5,000        3,000        12,000        Z,000          29,000         71,000               47                 19
Total Operating Costs                        30,000        69,ooo       96,ooo       137,000       147,000        183,000        662,000                7                 2
Total Investment Cost Secondary Markets         30,000       538,000      466,ooo        313,000      148,000        183,000      1,678,000               35                 12
June 28, 1977






~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
H li~~~~
0       ,00"0000                                    3000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 






X + #X o Z444o   4                                04 E      "c  we40'        w            444        4       4     4     0 4w4 4 0 4e EKDON  
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o
oe           s'-^'''                                 4 w            :n            w           X           oN~       _      m fD:                        o |          c         - 0E   |
|                                        .       ''@aEgDR<8^ '     '  '                                 °8Ew^       
x| '4                                                   w       ,.,,,,,...., .,,0,'                                             ,,,              ,            -..,o88|8|
04                                                ,~ 8 ,           ,         ,,        ,,,,,, ,,,,,,                                      ,           8                       0 80 8  
81                                8s                         o,,, 8                      8C '' *''                    '833              .*            ,0g                     ° 8C
2                                                                                                                                             2
44    4C 00 ,., ,,  ,                                                      I0|018l 
c      w°ewR=>oB                                                     ~~~~~~~88888RwZ8888                            o                                                             5-
.4                           W|            W         0           -                     _4 a.                                                      0 U  T00                           0 J<<d5ol
H~~~~~~~~4                                                              4                          C    ,e4                                                                 0            U.'-w'   00l^1   < =gi-a |au    
841_                              |>v   s3e           55      3      y                    3AX            c 5  40'0.  '5  3 0  4,'  0    5 4    4                                   4                   0   444 5QCV    ci
-                                       4        C               4                                  i                                                           'V  0 4  0  0  °         4 4  z    a4   iXv  ,WS5V|-a>Xv        






888         8  8      P PI    1ItL
8FS~~~8~~88                                                           . . . ~~~ . . . . ... .0 0.,,            .1        1-l
0  888882.m'   ' 0      - "        "               '''''''                       '''' 8.-888§88-
81 if             ~8F                                     218
Al ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     8-                               '4 I1






2                          +U§Ž~~~~Yj2.        ~ ~~            ~      ~~]!ifl   ~~~:  t2i'~R 
I r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
*  * * *,,*,,*,*,*,   ,**,,,,,**,   ,,,**,**,,                         ZI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
L,                                  * * * *.                  . .        . . .         .   .    .* *   * *   .    .-                        t 
1~~~~~~~~~~~ t~~882   ?2 28






060021                                                                        3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.12,. 22
Os,,ttal sod                    il501  Css-1  U,sit  ,2010Irs
Year1                   Y-spo                Y-arS                  Year ,               Y-er I                  Y-r                 Yeas-  T- oo0s                            aes
610520 60250 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.
50a5P,o
tt,ltsOoats-0%             ,,.                6~~~ ~       ~~~~.30                                       I       2   ,0                           -                -                              000          ,00
tosat Fips Oasis - 0"     s.                  too~         ~~~~ -                                       0           .0          -           -         -           -20                                          ,2
bOos  PesOs - 1/0  t.           0.00           -          -           -           -      .000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                      7`5 - - --     0
0e0s0oo~rs0/0%             s.                  056                       .                       -       02               -7 --
OSs- Solos oftot  -  0o                    lo                  .9            -           -                               00                                       
Otssoits`/0t  -4o2N.090                                                  -           -           .                    0            -.         -           -         -
.;aossteiooosotttre   So.   70.00   -   -   -   -        10         1,000        -           -        -           -                                           1,010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0010112tOeds  /            -                  -             -           -           -           -                   0.000                 0.000       -           - 50
lOots so2 Isis, 020250w  -   -             -           -           -           -         -         0,000        -           -         -          -                                           0,00
oostp    al-    Is                                      .0                                   -           -       Oo           .02         -           -4  ,000
losoioglhsts   -                   -             -           -           -           -         -        0.502        -         0.020       -           .                                          5,000~~~~~3,- 
-eroT-aa0l                                  .                 00                                    -           -       OO          702                                                                           Oso.00                          Co              3
A-stto                                               20.27 .                                 -           -         0                      -           -         .           -
bosses Thoo 0/es400eAl          to.0                                                                                                                                                                  L-0200 --, 200    6-      -0I6
lOssatd Oso  '0-, 03 5d              to-520.2                         -                      .          002         -                                      M                                                           20.0                6'              01
-lstolooIk    116o                                             2.0           -                     00          L.0         -          -          -           -                                                     0-         500                  01
Solgtsat                                   So.                 0.0 -                             53 0         1.00        . o,-                  -51         -                     .8                                          ,0:02                             1
OT-s   s'0    lOer                         SoI000I.01                                                         000                                      -                           .                                         71,00I
Nootlos                                 to.10,0                          -           - 2--                             -           -          -           .        -
itsspss.otj,                  o.            00,00.02                       -         0.9          000  --                           .           .-.t                                                             1.00






40Oold                                                                                 Ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ble 23
N.  2.P  00~~~~~~~~~~~00
St00000 
Ooarttlaltao   do.                 50.02            -             -            -             -         ~~~                              ~      ~~        ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~2 -~ ~    1-4                                5           2     .
Tratooo toad,  do.   100.00   -   -          -             -          -             -           0            -           -            -            -            -           I             -                  so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~56 
hotob toitto  Ooottet.toŽo   do.   500.00   -   -   -   .         -            -           0           0,002        -             -           -             -           0          o,Ooo                 to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
toyo,o  rosa 6/                 -                     -~~~~~2,0       -                                                  -           200                                                                           .            -          20000
0000000  theta 1'               -                     -~~~~~5                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14       00    ,0 ----    ,.  2:
toolacto  Oote,R~S~ L'  -                  -               -                          -             -                     0.000          -            -          -             -           -             -           -          0400                  01               14.
400-a,', ioooo'                                       -              -             -~~~~Im     12             -                       ,00          -             -          -            -                                                 .200
tt,oOo4  toot,  -   -   -       -            -             -          -          2,000          -          toos         -             -           -             -           -           coCo                 to                10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oaoa att tala   otgO/                                  -                            -             -            -           -          0,00          -                        -             -- 4-                                        040000                                     t
Ont, mItT.                                                            70.0             -                                        -          -            -            a                                     -           --                        0                                          
ha to a. 1 00400~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,S                                                                                                                       l~                    1I
C.40o,aa0700                                                                  -- -                       h            on          -             -           -             -          -                        --                       10,005
toaiWt    200-.                                  do.             90300                              -             0         t,o       -,.               -                         -          -                                      -            0 ~,-     00,000                 60               00
44,.  4,000.00         -            -             I~~7,-     o.ot          -                         -            -  -5.                                                         1          0.000                 06               tO
OheOolottloCtoOtlI      a                     o.2n            -            -            00          0,000         -            -            -            -          -             -                         -500                     00                  47dl
wodotto.,                Ot.                 00.20             -            -~~~~~~~~~5"  t        M   -                   46,0-                     37,.-          1-            -            -                        0-                                 0
W,Ater          -1  2 trodle f-a                 to                    002                           -            1t0,0                                  -           -i-                                                                        0.           00-0
0a000, an t047        t






SUDAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AkE
LIVESTOCK MARKETING  ROJECT                                                                              Table 24
(c)  Market Infratr-tur
CaPita1 & Qp-rting Costs   K ICoti S-codary Market
(hod)
Year 1                   Yea  2                   Yea  3                 Year 4                   Yea  5                  Yea  6                Year  S   6            F-rig.          T-xo  &
Ien                          OoGt         Unit Coat        Ueit.      Coot        Gaits         Coot        Galto        Coot       Ucits      Coat         Unite       Coat          Unite       Cost      Toltal        Tote         E-ahang        D.ttes
CAPITAL COSTS
Btildinne   1/                                   -                -             -          -            -            -           -          7,000         -        2,000          -                         -C  OOG                                          52            1s
Pan. & Encl...urts
Cattle Market
Bayers Pea.2..--                                                                                                                           2,0 GOO-  -                                                                                       2.000         56             14
Sorting Sheda 3/                                -                              -          -           -                         -          2,000         -        2,000         -                                                -4,000                    53             15
KR ...    al6 a..tni.g  /                       ---                                       -            --                       -          2,000         -          ---                           -                                          2,000         56             14
Sh-ep Market
Bny-r  l.ne 4/---                                                                         -            --                       -          1000          -          -----                                                        -1.000                    56             14
Sorting Rhoda 3/                                -                                         -            --                       -          2,000         -        1,000         ----                                             -3.000                    566            14
R.... & Sa1-RIogS                               -                                         -            --                       -           ,00          -          --                                        -                              1.000         56             1
Walls & Gates I/                                ---                                       -            --                       --                       -        900            --   --                                                      9.000        11              3
Soh-T.ta1 P... 6, Eoclog.rr                                                                                                            10,000                12,'O0                                                                      22,000         39            10
Water Ouroly
F.s.pRoH....                                    a2          70.00                                        8         ,0           -                                                            ---                                -             1.000        52             15
Poapa 3/                                       N0           0.01                                                  100                                                                                                            1           1,000         56             14
Enies5.0.                                                220,0-                           -                        ,00          --                                                           ---                                 1           2,:000        56             14
Spply) Piptog 3" V3a.                                       7.50              -          -         1,500       1100 MO                                             ---                                                     1,00l                0561
SuPpply FPiping 2"a                                          6.50              -          -           500         3,500         --                       --                                                                    500           3,000         56             14
Diottrihotfo  Piping                            a.           4.25              -          -            175        100           --                       -                       ----                                          175            1,000        56             14
Hydranta                                         o          22.0                          -2 00                       0         --                       --                                  ---                                23           1,006         56             14
P-nni-in                                        No          50.00              -          -2                        -           --                       -                                   --2                                                -          56             14
Wate  Truha (C.ttl)                             30.        110.00              -          -13                     1,000         --                       -          -                                                  -        15            1.000        54             16
atr Tr-  ha (Ohoop)                          N0.          50.00-                                      11        1.00          --                       -          -----1000                                                                   001. 6
Rob-TotI Wator Sopply                                                                                        22.000                                                                                                                      22,000         56             14.
Sitto P-ep-rti.n
Earthwork                                       .3           1.25              -          -            --                     3,000        4.000         -          -----                                                    3,000           40            68             23
S.b-T.t.1 Rita Prepartion                                                                                                               4,000                                                                                             4,000         68             25
Ouip-net Vohiol-s0                                                                                                16.000         -             -                     -----                                                        -           16.000623
D-ontic FroighL
Donteri  F-ight via Railway                 T.n/k.o          0.02              -          -                         -        24,845        i.000         -          --                                    -- 24,845                           1,000        12             16
S.b-T.t.1 Doneatic F-igh1t                                                                                                              1,000                                                                                             1.000         52             16
T-oI Copita1 Coate                                                                                           38_000                    22.000O               14_000                                                                      74.000         52             17
OPERATING COSTS
stoaf/f                                                                        -          -            -                                    9,000        -       11,000          -        11.000           -       14,oo0o                   45.000--
Wecer                                           ,u3          0.27              -          -                         -         1,500           -        1,600        -          1,600       1.000        1,700        1.000  6,400             2,000        31             23
OfficeSplO                                     p.a.           200              -          -            -----                                                      1.000)         -           -             -           -         4            1,000        74             19
Plaiatenaoc  of Struattotr   -                 P...              21iC          -          -            -            --                                                       Lop Sue       1000        S.un  Son     1.000  LospIs,           200           21
S.ah-Tot.1 MSU...lla-eon- Operting Costa                                                                                                                      1.000                    2,000                     2,000                    5,000        48             19
Total Operating C-sit                                                                                                                   9.000O               12.00          000            0016 000                                      50.000          52
Toto1 Cost Kosti Miorkot                                                                                                  3.0          3100200                                           .0                                             12400331
1/ See A-ee   8   T.ble 20 for dotoilo
2/  -le   ...n :4   TuhIn: i9 for datailo:
3/ See Ac..c  4   Tubl  25 for datail
S/ In  A.-c   4   Talla 17 for detail,
5/   To cupply rutty to R ilo,ly Tranit yard also
0/ To ho need forcnartto   of Wod Modooi & Reor
_  sacodary glorkato als-   100 Accn  4 Table 20 far det.fl&
7/   Ne rot for strutur   -init-sn    tho first yea  flter calt
sad 50% of esti.ated o..u.. Iaoet the .econ.d yea
Pan 21. 1977






I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-
0004~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
P.-                                                                                                      13,00  00   oo  o4  Cs  otc 01  00, Cs  Ool  ot bo, Cs  ots       01          oc        ot'w           Oobo          DoIes
A    0ot7 onE                  4
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al 77:72 
000 T-00 00100
lic~~                                                                                ~    ~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~ It  rit  i   3
000000osV -/                                                -               -          -          -           -        -        00000        -       7f000        -          -          -          -          -       350,0 GG            a?l
050 coO looio c36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
-fttl  T-Ark      tte=W                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
5;,Tcn,04t -i                            _                _              _                                  -        -        3OC          -          -         -          -          -          -          -        3,007                            15
eortis00bhet1 -/                                          -              -           -          -           -        -        b,000        -          -         -          -          -          -          -        ''0°               5t            14
OAosen101000 -£ -oe hi E                                                                        -2.-0000                                   -           -        -          -          -          -          -        2,C05t                           14
Sooso l*,Ono
2Oyorss0eoe-/                            -                _              -           _          -           -           .     1 000        -           -        -          -          -          -          -        1,.000R                     
2000i500400? -e   2                                                      - _                    -            -       -        '.5r0        _        1,000       -          -          -          -          -        4.000              0'            15
401 0 / -n                                          -              -           -          -           -        -         0.00        _          -         _          _          _          _          _  . 0         Is
iells ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4~.~                                                                                                                                                              ..34 9.e                                     3  _9OG
3W. 7er Supply 
h0re h,In,(6°° SIS                       - No          -3368             -           -        Q.          -e C                   -         - _        000       _          -          -          -        C.        ,,.9 OO             ot
00-,0 hou     oc so                                      70.rnOo,       _500                                                                      000 a500 1.00  _00      9                                         IeO         
EleyAtd 7sD  _                 No.          134s.0-02          -           -        0.5         1,00       -          _          -          -         -          -          -          -       0.1     '0 009                       
Bor.0oy 1e7i s0cc)                                         00 .00        _           _          N1        1.000      -           _         _           _        _          _          _          -        ll         1.000f                           1
Dletibutos ni                  No.            1,0.00           -           -          07       1 5,00      -          -          -          -         _          -          -          -         N7        1,000b6'
Nty1oo...                                No.               2200.00        -          _           05       1,000      -           -         -           -        _           _         _          _-        2    5    0.00501
llsacrtleooo                            ito.           s,Oo.OO          -           _        0. 2         ,00       -           _         _           -        _          _          _          _        0.         5,0001
f4or Slolloo eh  CAt)Y.                                   6:.10          -           -        000         1.000      -           -         -          -         -          .          .          -       000         0.000              5n
0110111N   000000                        5 h.p,T.          0C.O0         _           -        00          1,000      -           _         -           -        _          -          -          _        005        1.000542
Wlodost edbi  bNo.                                       20500.C          -          -        053         1,00       - _           _                   -        - _                   -          -    0 5            1.000              56            00
00010  Snoooh f sl,                      to.            1: 40.00          -          -         1,3       050 °°                  .         -           -        -          -          -          -        00         0,00              50 °°         13
S T. Tk£ :m                Yo.           1,000.00          -           -       0.5          1.000      _                                                                _ -                   1        7 10.0501
-Z-  _2 ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     -                     .00-.                                                -                                                      .0
0-owr oooo_.p 4 /                        0              ' ao.0.0                             0.^4-        0,000      -          -          -          -         -                     -                  '11         0,000n                           6
Sonorcol d0oet/                          N o.           0.000,00         -           _       0.00         0.I        - O  _      _         _          _         _0   21                                               ,0007                           1
0,000000000...                           00.            0,500.00         -           -       0.5 34       0,000      _           _         -           _0 _                           _          _                     00,on6n1
Genera'ors - 1000 W                      W..              905.00          -          -       0.07         00         - _           _          _        _        _.00071
ull Tosls 00100055  1 ,000.00                                 -          -       00,000       0,000              n o            -      _          _.                                           .P Sono    1,:00072
OI,coOooOt,O4ccOo  On,         000.00          .          -           0          -~~~~~~~~~25  2.     -          .19
COSIeeo  000100000                       Gao              000.00         _                      -         0,0        -          -          -           -        -          -          -,0 -0I
OcoNOOgEsoloasoO            ,            Oct              _00.00         -           -                    0          -- O _0_m
To b7id  £qoipse Oco          s . 0049,  00cr 000       _,000.00         .                 -              14 ,C                  -          6_                             -                                       1 ,  .00
Oot-boOsOl oqo00seot cod veOilols                                                                    Z.G 20,000O0'.19
a:I. OOcNcOctlon2                          .-                                 -        -                -              .         ,000        -          -         -          -                                         0000               s             Z
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2IPC  2Rht
Sub-sT-t I0000004  YreiCh                                                                              1.3 0                                                                                                      1 000             5£             16
TotAI C.010,0 Cocos                                                                                     -.6,000               00,000               06,.o                                                           o00,oo               00d-O         00 
h.  oecer                                              1,..00            -           -          -           -      0.0        1,000        1        0,0.        0        0,00G        1        1.000      3.1        0,000
000050000/e,0r                                            000W.00        _           _          -           -      0.S        -,                1 0,00          0 I        00 1,W              1,00       5.5        5,000                            -
Joolto COon),,'"he                                        600.00         -                      -           -      U.          _.0         0        0.OOf       I        _ 0.00       0        1,000      3.         3,000
..wnl-r Cle  80,0.00  -   _           _          _         0        I.          0         000        0 W0005               0         1,000       7        50 00 C                            7
V,5..n                                      "              00.00         -           -           -          -      0.4           _                0   -                  l .          0        0.000        7        0.00               -              -
Drlrer A                                                  600.00                     .          .           -        S           -         0           _        0         10          I        0.00       3           :.000 C-
ooocoGDcsl/Olccocos                                       5 00.00         -          _           _          _      1.4           _         0         10.0 on                00 5t               100      10m.1        3.000
Gord,                                                     5 00.00         -          -           -            -         L                  0                    0         0.0         0        0.I 0O                2.0 I OW 7-.
Ososrioeao Osclstsnt                        "           I,2JC.OO          -          -           -          -      0.0      0,00           0         I,001      0         1,000       0        0,000      0.0        4,noo
loO-Ootl s, s 5oO                                                                                                            .00'               00.000               1_,000                12,000.               sq,soo-                           -
3 T. rr2k                                NOooyr.        0.00C.           -           _          -           -      0.0          ,          1        5,000       1         001         1000001             5 3.       f,7.9              _             _
000-100.00 Ooo,,Is Op rtsocln                                                                                                 0                  5,0                  0.X00                 0,000                 A,orn              _ 
nOSclrlsooOOoosooratlO; ooltaŽl             -               -                                                                      -         -         9  99  £20  _        I,0OC       _        0.ooO        -             O.0           5E             17
loocl So,' n,onamocooon                                                    .                                                            50.009L0              97,7.C0              0,00                 00             0
21/n,  7, o-o5   -en-n 01 14
SOn /  oe nneo 4 ocOhoOOloordlcollOa.
'2/o   Ottos2e  4   aleOl25Ofor Onocie.
001e ccmc, espip n,to 40 osos Son CC2Ytr oloon of ooclo cod Ocosoous Osooso,,
90 To         -0- 00015 504r r 1r  1f  0000  OloOSr so.
0000000005000 00900P ssoco-Olfor  cssoOirl,d  0 p o-lssstdO        loo Z oo:.t.s:s,oNOts,oeloooos.  s b,oontoslloco1 esosp
oDld OS lOO  or moyea e 050   r 00110   000ss',,Ot.  0000000crreio  lm 40000-0  0000  OcO ol.0 Dt 0401   00000o  5    totoeoASosoe
,00000ns,' sslocos, OoOo the Oootoo10 oao,Ooo 0000. Son-olcssilOOc ccrlooa,s sos only ,..oooool Ne o..ltCUl 
ootsgcb  hlt 10o004ts 0I.o,000l005  501000  OGoso o 0q0a  ooo..cOotoy ON of tl:sin 0,050.  TbooosIrom:lts 006,     qnr
eatstnt  ur one cnoooococoooooosi.toocones onco000tc00000000410n0000lo.,,=ZtooOe,.






ANN11X 4
TAOS. 06
0000                                                                                                                  Pge 
'.Ysn                        ir ear lY             .                       Y'earS~                 Year5                    Year6                  Ces-aI-6                    Fo-ign           . Sensad
Ttea                   l~~~~~~Uitg        Unit Coat         Uoite       Coot          Utl          ol        Iot           0,.         Uis        Cs            nts       Cs             nt          ot          Ttal        ioa               Oesoe            toe-
units       Coet 
CAP'ITAL C(Sl0
Tad-  oOt-ds., d  ofi-                        Mo0.            4, 000.0            -                                                            oiO           --                                                                        I          4.,000              52               ii
0n~~o01,,aiy 00'lon/0'-.o,n    10.              1~~,200.00          --O                                                         2,00           -                      --                       -1                                  2.000                52              is
-tno   to-e   /ioor-                           No.                 000.00           -            -            -                                                -                                 1,00          -             -           1          1,0011              52              15
G   dI    Ilot-0                               N0.                 6500             -                                      -          -            -                                  2            -                         -2                       -                 52              11
No.                100.0 W                                                            -            -           -                       I                                                 I             -                0                ii.
Wdebt 2o0010 PooOati-                          No.                54s.0             -                         -            -          -I                                  1.000                                                          I         1,000                152              1i
Toilelte                           leo~~~~~~~S.       275.00            -                                      -          2            -,00        --                      -                       --2                                 1.000                52              10
000,01100 Cooseor 0-r,.o,oon-  Loop Ii.  1,010.00  -  -  -        -      111,0 Soo     0,000         -            -          -            -           -            -        ln.i.01 iO,5    1.000             30               12~~~~~L-kp  100  30  1
001--  A   0o00 tr                                                                                                                     0,,00          0           10 ,000                                                                10.000               io               16
E-,,-t 00-10,0000         ,I  il
I                                            N0,~0  o.            1.40            -            -            -            -        60             -           --                                  -                         -          60                              35               10
Stool Pipe P-ot-l'2                                                 0.300                                                          11.0         1,00           -                      --  -                                           160          1.000                56              iL
000Pile ln-      0~ o                                           160                                                             84 - -       1,000        01                                                                       160          1,000               56               jI.
leOe,0n01,-0,'0' I            n.                  ~~~~~           ~~~0.50  -    -            -            -         -                      45.0                      --                                              400             -                 0                16
0n0i-lD-pp-oo-P/0             ~        ~                            0.01-5                                                            -                      So0            -         -            -            -            -          00                              51               16
6- Hook B.Ito 0,0 .-~ Co                       to.                  0.79                                                            3       0                3 o-                     -                                                 60            -                  6               14
6.enHo0 oook  o   ot /V.oi 1o                  No.                  0.00            -            -                                          -               000             -                                                           00            -50                                11
Iste tht tardino                           N..                 7'1.02                                                                                      5            -                       --56                                                                                 11.
0000100 OhnOi~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ROt-Coril s - 1o.                                                   1.10           -                                                 8                                             - 4-o446                                                                            540              10
St-1 Shdn  Spol-e       2"                                          5 .  .60o-                                                                  160 1.00                      0                      -                                 060          1.000               56               16
0Ani l-i-sIsl - I"    0                        e                      .60           -            --                                 0 .0                     246         1-                                                           2 --  6       1,000               56               14
R stnrltSh.d-0/0                                .0.10                                                                                                       120  -- Uo                        -                                       I 61O           -                 51.              16
G.ee ..                                                            75~~   e  .00                                                      2                     21.          0,05                                                         2.             .06                                 0i4
6- 11.o   B  IE00.                                      11.0 7                       -            -            -         62                        -                                                                        6 --    -5 6                                     14
6-  Hlook Bo1o, -O5-                           No.                  o.7,            -                                      .        6              -           .4           -                       -4 0                                                                5 6              11.
On,oll~.Iol.i.Ont.00                                                                                              -    160 0- 5-  160 6                                                                                                               -                 06               14.
obnr    -l-oP0.,0                               .00                                 -            -            -            -          -            .        102-                       ----                                            10.1.1
OsctO so       -  -alFel0005
goCavats 0000  toOls so0 0011
I050 Pps Osl  -2                              .                    .0I                            .                               60 .                                                               -                               62                               5 6             16
OOOoOlz   l?0                              a.                    0.0            -                                                10            -           --                      ----                                            310                              54I              16
0,00  000,_0 2                             a230                                                                                  0                                                                                                  25                              51               '
No.                 75.00                                                                         .0                                                                                     .0         0,000                06              i1.
6-s    No-1o-20,                                o.                  0.0 7                        -                         -          6                                                                                                                                 5       -- ~   6  16
6-  3O,o0OI-IO1o-                              No.                  0.50            .                                              1B-                         --                                                            -         to                               56               16
600   t ,       HA010035                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
00sn0oionThoto~~~~~~~0'0      n.                   1~~.300                                                         67            -.                                                                                    67            -                 56               11
Otool COpo 00110 -    0       a.                  ~~~~~~~3.0 a                                                     95   0      1,000          .            -                       ---                                 91          1.000               56               14.
OoOarOeOlO-li'2"7             o.                   0.1~~~~~~~~:0   .            -            .            -          -            -        10              .         .-                                              330             -                 54               if
Onto,                         No.                 6~~~~      ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~            ~~~~0.C cc. -  . .                    3                                                                         3            -                  64~
6- Ho    1otolo                                No.                  0.50            -                                                 6            -          0                                                                         3       -0                      16               14
6ne 0006 FoO1      --lo                         i                   0.1             -            .            -            -          -                      2 00           .                                                           4                                6               14
00011100  POet 00101 tO Fill
000-. C--,Oc50                                                      5.10           -            .            -                                                                       68 1,00 -- --                                      0100                           10               if)
Steel pipe 0'oeto - 2  0      e.                   ~~~~~~5.50      -                         -            -        500          100           -                                                                       100          1,000               16.               e
loePtpnaoi 21                               .3.0                                -             - -00                                             -                       .-                                  -.                      86-16                                             lIe
Rebs2 Unie.  00' 2    0                       a.0.50                               .            -                         -          -                      312                                                                       35  -. 12      -                 II.              10
.o-relPlTeole0eoop-ot  P                        a                     .60           .                         -            -                                  60          1.000        -                                                60          1.000               16               14.
SOnlPoIOPOPltto.l  0   a.    0.30            -            -            -            .          -            .        020             .         .             -           -            .        120             -                 06               III~~~~~~~~~I  -  2  6  1
lO ..nUs                                     "2O'0                                -                                                                       120             .         ---120                                                          --
So.           (~~~~0.0                      -            .            -                                   2            -                       -           -.                       2            -                  6               1I.
6- R-kS B.lti-t0N10.                                                 0.00           .            -            -            -  09-                                           -                                           75  -                                           s6               16
-   11-o   B.1L-   12-                        10.                     12            -            -            -            -          -            -        300             -                                                -        10-                                6s
F,o.OlzClo    n Wno1.                                                0.10           -            .            -            -          -            .         160            -                                                           6                                56O              1
R,-  0000P0nO-   /'                             .0.01-5-                                                                                                      90                                                                        9         0                     540               IC,






Llas ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    na
o    atlet PsYsero. or
Year l                 Year 2                Y          Y             -a!Ca'             t ear 5                Cre-6              Yea- -                    Pooo            aono
Zoo-                          -on            ttt C-st      -Psits        Cost         Juits     Cost       Cits       Cos         -tt       Cs         Pots       Cost        'oots      Cos        Tota       Tota              tto1          Louse
CAPITAL 01.35  (Continod)
eoso   olses(C-ntiond)
Caeaad $.I.s Ping
PnasePost Holes -od Pill
sloP.Cotoo.ets  to.            0,0           -           -           -           -      ~~~          ~     ~    ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~33                                                                         Is         - .    OI
It-alipsCoets-1  01                       e                    .30          -                                  0-                   t,00o       -6                                          --                   d          t,.tt              5"            I1
tatsstOagdooor             el                 ~~~~~        ~     ~    ~~~~0.500                         00                                                                                        76       -- 0                51             13
lease                           to.              010.00          -                       -           -                                           -                                                      I           .               59R.          ii. 0
toolsionisil               a.                tOco~~~~~~~~~~6  -                                         150        CCCt,        -                                            -           -       Io          20OCC             03              3
Too-noon Pots noC nooxonores                                                                  ~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~      ~~~~~12, 000  3,000o  13,0C  El  10
laiso ton,1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      1 o                                                                                                               '5 ~                          1
oore0o1~'CCariere3i!         b.            0000.00            -          -         0.5 1000 oI,o           -                                                                              -       00          01                dO4T
Fle-eod'0o To.                                            6,-oo             -           -         Co         '           -           -          -                    -            -         -- 0.3                           3,00              0 1.           oo
i00po  Pining   3" 5Xa.9.t                                                                                           0,00         1900          -           -           -I                                    0I00         0901                od
tOsTo'tbotOoo Piping - 1  3  a.               1.0~~~L5       -                                           0 o        ,Co-                    -         -                                          '0C         P.0               S               1
ItO-total 'dotr  iop2tp7,00                                                                                                                                                                                                I. o0  0,00       16             o
totienet and Vehiotee
Welding fsthine L/                         to             0.500.                                 0.33         1,000      -                                                                                       .33         1.1                013
Poo  Ts-oo - 4 a3                          to            14.10,0 II                     -       C33          n00o        -                                                        -         --                  C           0,0006d                           33
4hlapin,opO                                to.            L8C00                                 0.35         0,00        -                                                       -          --                  T33            III01           3.             do
Iaenned                              to.            4,3000 -                                .3 .,O                  -                                                                                      .'33        10Cd1.
0snii Ooote                boo ion         0,000~~~~~~94.00              -      00 on6        1,0         .                                                                                     ?.-66    tn  -Co 100            00
Coraoenothmsoa              OsO ~~~~~~~1,0oCCIC O                                    0p        1,                      -          -          -         -                                        - i           1,104            d7              3
flnstoPre-                            To  n.P00                         -           -       ,09          1010dIo                 tooo.753,-                                             --    ..0                       200                tO             I
on  spioT-l Cots6,-I                                                                                                             03  O                   400to7.0                                                                             32             i9
Onotione                                                  1,41t  -  .. 0.11 '.         ,0                      ,0                  1 O.'. 14,0074,.                                         1          ,     7MC1.5        '0,110
Tenio C.Ptrr ~t/Cnlr70C                                                    01            -           1          ,0                   ,0                    ,                    1,00  14.010                      5.5         ,00 -,55
Ostoi`toos                                                  00.00                                   .                              1,01II       0         tIC         0        1.C0         C         000          1.-000                     - -
Ctetaos/II     eeoa_00C                                                    1.         -, 3o                  t,CIII       3         i,..                  I ,0         3       1.000         3         t,0C      16.           OO
GS-Os                                                       4O00.0 1II                                          -        0         l 1   III              1,0CC       4         ,1                      -00       01         4.000 
Peter  3o O3eaT                                           ,C.0  0~ .0                I,CO                       000                                                            I .Ci 1 10C P 010 1    00.        5.5         7.1,00
OllonaoorsOo                                                           1.1.-~~~~~~~~ n11 I.  iCIo  I 1,10)1.I 1,110                        0,0         I         .100 III    i           CC                  710.11      
notA. -Sal nap                                                                    5,I0                    3,03o                 9s000                11,0CC                11,000                 04,000o               53,000 
Wate                                       n3                 0.1           -           -           -                                        ,0C                  2, 000       ICOPo   0,01           1,0CC   d,ooo          I.003                            23
Ot'raon ioppitss        onConsO          000.10         4~~    ~    ~           ~~~.0    1   -         I           -          .        100         1                      I           -       5.1         0,-0              7159
isitonatteof Ittootres -   * rn                0.5                       -          .           .         -           -1.0101125                                                                             _0.10              52             is
Total 0nestingToo                                                                    5,010o                 3.C00                 1.02,I00                                   13. 010                ld.OOC                 03,000              3 
Total Cost ilnla. Marian                                                             1,Cco                 32,0CC                50,01                 Id  00                    00 .11.1)                                137. 000            31             11.
'jAnoer sorly foI oi.  this  -srit ant tIe raibna  tolidn   par.
rs    Xi,0tO   0000 0-     rrrolnilL          1h l ,~.  olto ooo.tooo  ooo   0   tasoO   Tfal --I 55- ottpoas
eaZ ye    aaisOt   i   oetno    eeo   od    o-taiideio.e   o   05eIil   o   olteooT
0000050  olittl   i   nloe   0sootOOP0  OOnSlot3   'toroio.SetoTOo03I     loo






S0UDAN                                                                                  Table 27
LIVFSTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Ic) torket infraatructure
Capital & Opeo-tiss Costt - Sennar ..     onta S y Mrket
(hsd)
YCt-  I                Year 2                     Year 3                   Year 4                      Yoar 5                    year 6                YCars I - 6                Foreisn   TMoes t
It-n                       USit         Unit Cost         Units        Coat         Uite         ceS          Ulite         Crap        Units         Cost          Units        Cost         Usite         Cost        epl           TFton    ft     . hns ger   Optics
Units          Con              5 
CAPTYAL COSTS
BRildinss 12                                     _               -i              -          -              _            _            _         22,t00          -         16,000            -            -            -           -            -           38,000            52         15
Pens t EnCiOSUres
C-le Market
Boyrer  Prop 2/                                -               -               _          _              -           _             _          2, 00G         -                                                                                           2,000            56        14
S.rtinpSl,rdaR/                                -               -               -          -              -           -             -          2,000          -          2,00            -             -           -            -            -           4, 000            55        is
Rsco; & Spies Riog i/                                                                                                                         2,000          -                          -                                                                2,000            56        14
Shoep Maket
Btyses Yoss 3/                                 -               -               -          -              -           -             -          1,000          -            -             -             -            -           -            -            1,0U0            56        14
SortiogtSheds/                                 -               -               _          _              _           _             _          2,000                       00            -             -           -            -            -           3,000             56        14
Rates 6&  leo Riig 3/                          -               -               -          -              -           -             -          1,000          -            -             -             -            -           -            -            1,000            56        14
alla  tC          -tes                          _              _               _          _              _            _                                                  9000-                                                                           9000             15         3
Sob-Total Pass & iPolonore                                                                                                               10,000                    12,000                                                                          22,000            34         10
Rorer SUppIV
P-,p H0-o                                       .2          70.00              -          _              _           _            16          2,000          -            -              _            _            _           _           16            1.000            52        15
Poept                                          No.        600.00               -          _              2         1,000           -            -            -                          -                                                   2            1 000            56        14
Eppgirr                                        No.       1 200.00              -          -              2         2,000           -             -           -            -             -             -            -           -            2            2,000            56        14
Tosake Itto-ttre                               No.      2,000.00                                         I -  1    2.000           -            -            -            -             -             -           -            -            1           2,000             54        21
Supply Piping 2" 0                              .            0.50              -          -            110         U,000           -            -            -           -              -             -           -            -         150             1,000            56        14
Dintitlb  ...n Yiping F  t                                   4 25,. kDO -                 -            400         2,000           -            -            -            -             -             -            -           -          k00            2.000            56        14
hydrents                                       Ns           22 00              -          -             13            _            -             -           _            -              -            _            -           _           13              -              56        14
Fount-ins                                      No,          50.00              -          -              2                  -             -            -           -             -             -            -                  -            2              -              56        14
Ptter Trooglp  (Coirtle                        no.         110.00              _          _             13         1,000           -             -           -            -             -             -            -           -           13            1,00             54        21
Waite oTr= gOs (.h..p)                         No.          50.00              _          _             12         1                      -            -            -            -              -                  -            -          12            1 000            54         21
Sob-Total poser Sopply                                                                                        10,000                      1,000                                                                                                    11,000            55         17
Eloinoes6 Vehisles 51                            -               -               -           -             _         16.0G0                                    --                                                                                         16,000            62         32
ECot osk                                       e             1.25              -          -              -            -        5,000          6,000                                                                                    5,000             6,000            68        23
-iog  Str.ccaret                           Latop Sum    2,000.00               -          -              -           -      L-i S..           2.000                       -             -             -           -            -      LoP Sn             2,000            54        21
Sob-Totul Sils  Ocopa-o-ti-                                                                                                               0,00o                                                                                                     S,000            65         24
no- tic  e-ight
oe-ighs vie Rsil.ey                         Toon.            0.02              -          -          9,050         1.000       9,850             -           -            -              _             _           _            _      19,700            1 000            52         16
Sok-To-al  Fogsio Preiht                                                                                       1.000                                                                                                                                1,000            52         16
Tosol iPitapl  Coost                                                                                          27,000                     41,000                    28,000                                                                          96,000            51         18
OPERATINC COSTS
itaff 3/                                       -               _               _          -              _          8              -          9.000          -         11,o0l            -         I1O1            -        14,000         -            533000            -         -
riso.ll.esIos oero-tisp Coets
Stoes -3                                                   0.27              _-                                     -        1,400             -         1,400          -           1,500          1.000       1,600       1,000    5,9C0              2. 00            31        23
Ofiic l  ls-,li                           per eor       200                  -1                                  1,0             1                                                       I          -                        -            5            11000            74        19
Flliortance of0 Stooo toro-                p...            2)j               -          -              -            -            -            -            -            -             -            1.000         -         1.000   Lomp  o             2.000            52        15
nus.b-otal lpinoollooroso                                                                                     1,01u                                                                             2,000                   2,000                      5,000            48         19
opersttog   poot_
Tonsl Opsrotitg Cost,                                                                                          9,000                      90,O0                    11,000                       13,000                  16,000                     50,000              4         2
Total Coot Ipsoor Mocks 0                                                                                     36,000                     50,000                    39,000                       13,000                  16,000                    154 000            33         12
1/    see A-nee 4. CTbb  17 Cot de.til
2/   Sec IAne-   4  Tabls 195 oP     - Ostilt
3/   S.e MAina 4  Tails 25 for details
4/   1cr k-tne       Toble 20 fos details
5!   To br need for co-no-nstt- of f7sd Madasi A Costi arSesk
oo.S   Ano..   4 Ttbl  20 fos detail,
6/   No  C08t  nator_tos_   ntns .enosn.  tke afi-t year sfter coepleti-o
asd osly 5CT of -sninl-ed ann-oa pose durisg spiond ywr.
JO0- 21, 1977






10858                                                                                T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ahilsl 20
LIVESTOCE MiARKETING PRoJECT
(c) Ys-knt Ittfastnui-ts
Capital & foveatoast Cost. Wad Yedni Se..a.da-t M-ksat
Yer I                    Yar 2                    Year 3                    Y-t4                     Year 5                   Year 6                Yess 1 -6                 For-ign       Taxes 4
Item                    Unit        Unit Cost        Vnits       Cost          Uoits        Cost        Units         Cost       Units         Cost       Units         Cost        soits          Coso      Total         Total        Eshsge        sotiC 
Units        Coat            V.             V
CAPITAL CLLSs
Buildinss i/                               -             -              -          -              -           -            -         7,000          -         2,000         -             -             -            -          -         9,000            52             15
FenS & E-1...ure
Cnttln tK-t
Biyots Pntt 2/                         -              -              -          -             -            -            -         2,000          -           -           -             -            -             -          -         2.070            56            14
lnnoing 1Shodn 3f-                                   --                                                                           4,003 0                                                                                              4 000           16             14
Ri.e  & lns R_     3                                                               -    -           -                             2,000                                                             _             _          _ -2,000                  16            it
Shttp M-okot
ino'ots tans
Fllvi ith C.nr.Ie                    N..           5.40             -          -             -2                                    -                                                                                       52           -              35            10
Steal Pipa Posts 2"                    a,           5.30             -          -             -           -           100         1,000          -- 1,000                                                                                              56            14
Sisal ripn                                          300              -          -                                    5536         1,00 11  1,00  -                                                                                     1,000            56            14
toben Rotla   0                         .            .20             -          --                         -          596           -            --                      ----                                              596                          5 4           iO
Onhaptpropiaro    0 eam.                            0.55             -          -              -           -           64           -            -           -           -             -             -            -         64           -              54            16.
6 gm Rtook tolts - 15 on.            IN.            0.58             -          -             -            -           60           -            -           -           -             -            -             -         60           -              56            14
H.-ktonI . t-i   no.                So.:          5.2              -                        -                      240 o                                                                                                240            -56                          i4
Ga-ot sth-ada-                        No.          65000                                2          4     0                                                                                                                   5                          5-6           14
Sort/ng Shads 3/                       -              -              -          -             -            -            -         2.000          -         1,000         -             -            -             -          -         3,000            56            14
RUcesnkoSttes i/tg 3/                  -              -              -          -              -           -            -          ,I000         -            -          -             -            -             -          -         1,000            56            14
Ualls 6 Goan-   /                      -              -              -          -              -           -            -         9 000          -            -          -                                                             9 0 0             3              3
SoS-lots1  rons & /nnlosur- -                                                                                                22.000                     I,OCO                                                                      23.C00           40             10
Otter Supply--
Poop Boose            m                            70.00             -                  _ _                -           16         1.000          -           -           -             -            - .                     i6         1.VO0            12    15
P000                                  NS.         600.00                                                100             -           -            -           -           -             -            -             -          2           ,              56            14
Esgino                                N..       1,100.00             -          -2                      2,00 -OM                                             -           --                                                  2000                       16            14
ittLok  Stottora                      So        2.000                -           00                                     --                                                                                                   I    2 o   2,000           54            21
S Ipply Piping 20 0        t           .            6.50             -          -                 110   J,oOO           -           -            -           -           -             -            -             -        i1,0050 I,coO                56            14
iOintt2ontinn Plping                  I.            4.25             -          -           410          2,000          -           -            -            -          -             -            -             -        410         2,00C            5             14
Ibirsnts                 Sn.          ~~~~~~           ~~22.00  -                3            -            -           --                        -          ----                                               13           -              56            84
Fon.asns                              SN..         50.00                                       2                                                              -                                                              2           -              56             14
W_ton  hrosohs (CNnnis)                N.         110.00             -          -            12          1.000          -           -            -            -          -             _            -             -         i2         1,O00            54            21
Wotap Taoght  /Staap)                 Sn.          50.00             -          _            12          1.000          -           -            -            -          -             -            -             -         13         1.000            54            21
Sob-ott1 Watan Sopply                                                                               1O,00o                    1,                                                                                                   11,000           55             17
ro-inso-t   Vahiolos 5/                                               -                                    16,00                                                                                                                          16,000           62             32
Siot Pr-s-nntioo
Earnon-k                              a3            1.25             -          _             -            -       2,000          3              -           .           _             -            -             -      2,009         3,00             60             25
Sb-Totl-   Sat Pr-p--onion                                                                                                    3.000                                                                                                 3,000           68             25
Do-sti  F-oighn
Frotil/l, o   nooil-sy              S./kn.          0.02             -          -         4,SOO            -       4,800          I,G.O          -            -          _             _            _             _     9,600          1.,(10           52             16
Sub-Tottl Domestic Frsight                                                                                                     1,000                                                                                                I,000            52            16
Total  p-rtil  rot-                                                                                26.000                    34.000                    3,000                                                                      63.000            51             is
OTEkATING COSTS
StCff 3/                                   -             -              _          _              _         8,000          -         Y,OL0           -        11,000        -          1L.000           -         14,000       -         53,000            -              -
Slisnollonsous roprotits Costs
W t;r                    m    ~~ ~0200  ro                         -              L        l,o             '                      ,0          2,100lO                   l,OoD        2.260         1,000   6,3V0          2,000O           38             23
OMftn   Sopiosp.                                  200.00             -I                                  1,000          I           -              i          -            I                           1 -        I              .     l,CCO            74             19
Osiotroso-n of St o-n-               p...            2Y7             -          -              -           _-                                                 -        n  so *  _               Lop ens         1.000   Loop son       2,00             52             15
Sob-Tots' Mitos/lnooops                                                                              1,000                                                                        2.0 0                      2,00V                  5,000            48             19
Iparotini Coats
fotal OponLoiD2 Costs                                                                                                          90000                                             13.000                    16,-000         .       58,000             4              2
-Cost uIsd  lood-i Maik-t                                                                          35'In                    43.040 14,                                000      1.                         16.000                 ill.0Co            28            lo1
I/ 505 Anao 4 T bH 20 /o- dotsils.
2/   See Ans-     4 Tolls /E Con dntoiln.
3      t S oee _  6 TOlble 25 fdo  dote/al.
7/   Tto o,sod  .ot nonotno. topf t-      o K-oor 6 SStnp.  MorAke  also
lee Annan 0 lollo 201 fon dtasllt
5/   Noosts  ton st,unL .r ..soo ..ns..   tha first yeoo  ofte-  tapletiot
2nd oily      0/ ot estloattd snoLLIncost the sa..nd yeat






FUGAY                                                                                            At 7dSte o
_ 725tiOCht MOAtiPTiS7 PE0 SOJ
(p) PArht 0510 stat-oape
Capital ted 0p Aett ii CCCII '- Thit  F i_ry Matrkets
Tie49CliOO                                                                                     0 COat4ear95 I  T   Year  Iear' 4  ear 5                                               46 Peers bI -   05±2a  Tss,ranas
a6ts                losa        Utits     Cast       Ct is      as        UnIts     COst        ais        WC        mitts    Cast       ZPtAl    7riOs               56asn      Suttes
Units     Cotact
J Dior OrnOn dVAssen 1/                 na?           7,90.00           _          _          _          _        a          2~ sg,coo   4       29,000     _           _         _          - o       2         5.wo              52             15
SaC-Tmini huldiOCEi                                                                                                    53,000                29,0D0 C,0000                                                                      59             15
Eapeasor Past titern ed Flitl
a1ti lason-rets                        su-               5.ho          -          _          _          _        _           _       180        1,000    56o        2,OF0    120          1~        372t       4,0 FOD                           10
isteT  ipn Pusaf - 2' i5 =15 0                                          -          _          -          _        _           _       hg5        3,520    990        5,000      sq5        2,000   5,900        1O,0               tOD561
SteeC Ois,a TintS, - 02  6              a.                1.61          -          -          -          -        -           _       300        2,0Fo    600C        ,0GS      300        2,000   1,000        7,000              36             n4
Stane  ieonr pssia _  /1/2              a-                 I 0,5          _           _          _          _        _              1,500        1,000  3,0D0        2,000   i,000           -     6,000         3,0000            54             16
t0in  C=ant FiOl q F                                                                         -°'  hO  -°                     - ~      ~ 15      2,000      30        3,203F   57155       1,F000    '760       25,-000            56            o1
i,-0o,_^tnl Pncoiaearet                                                                                                                      00.00               23,t00D               no,000                46,a00             30             10
CotioseF sad Equalnhti
1T I-  eaIck.                           Nto           5.L  GD           -          -          -          -                              6       3900O0      -                                -         6        39, 000            75             17
Poiimps.rnadern                         ISa              70.00          -          -          -          -        -           -         4          -        -           -         -          -         4           -               7s            20
C-n1S00 anCttee                         To             2.50-                                                                            3        8,000                                                  3        0,000             70            1n
0pea,~~~~taps~~ll00a.     isa. ~~~~9't-.o                 -                                                                        4,000      -                                -                   4,00              00            10,
ball piala               tasp San      5,000.00~~~~~~~C  -                                         -           -     Sa  to       3,0 CO     -                                       rp n        3.OMt              73            20
lPPfiae Oqapat                           n              000.00       S=        2D            D F0    L             2    =6L  3  F00                         -           -C        -6                             1 0O0             6D             36
ndEplamitO latknat                      Set             301.00         _           -          -          -        -           -         6        3,OC0      _           -         -          -         6         3.O0             76            19
ooitL  Opcre Pa,-F                      Loan Pan         016            _          -          _          _        _           _     Lb p  s     1000                                                      - -  _  -    lamp SUh    10,000  74     17
- aio-iaisl VybioO nuu t/d Eqlto                                                                                                             69,00o                                                          69,000             74             *e
PPalgo- Ots hOlstes                     Tan/Pin.           1.01         -          -          -          _         -          -   76,000         2,000 52,00          ,0500                  -    120,000        3,000             52             16
PP-iht is OssO                                             1.10         -          -          _                                    11._0 _OII 8,ooo                   L,OW0       _          -    09,005                           76             16
2 b-Taonl F e1Ebt                                                                                                                             3,000               2 ,000                                     5,50r 62                          16
ointr Inpiti ToniE                                                                                                         59,0F0              113.000               00,300               *1.000      216         ,001             t6             14
UP0    0 FA  dG COSTS
T,pkao Tpaetptrlnisi-                   ,sn/y-r.       1,200004         -          -          -           -        I        1,000       3        4,000       6        7,070       6        7,0WC       16       19,0 C
SAscio_ er                                 "           1,030.00         -          _          _           -        1        1,hC4       3        3,0 c       6        600 6,t     0        6,000       16       16,000OD
Reriip 0n/TastIer-                                      9 0 00          -          -          -          -        1         1,0 0       5   3   300         6         7 000       6        5,000      16        14.000             -              -
ODi T0lCerk                                ,            6at.06          --                                                  t,0Om       3        0, _  2,004   6          4,000   0        3.000      16        10,F O M
Oosapton-pE  5A,l,Otai                                   4 1,000.00 U              -          -                    1        t,COD       9        4 F000      6        72 ,O       6        7 000        16      6 1 o,
Orison                                                   610010         -          -          -           -        I        1,000       3        2,O00       6        4,000       0        9,000       t6       10,00 0 
Soptep    r'                                            400,0n          -          -          _          -         t          _         3        1,30C0     0         2,200       6        3,000      16         6,a000- 
llllAaene6 b                                                            -          -          -          -                  2.0 OODO 5                                s,FOD                g,G40                25,0                .             -
2-b-Tatat1  S,-                                                                                                                              25,M04               46,0C 4,46,o                              125,o00              -             -
InOtlase 00ernoaod
30T _  rtoporston                       yenr          2,100 C                      -          -          -        -           -         3        6.,000      6       23.0o0       6         10         15       32,000              77            17
S00-Toial Ostlolne Cpsnntlap                                                                                                                  6,040               13,0O0               12,0o                 32-,000            77             11
Olanrlin,,aaa OOsrltli la,otn
Of-iris anaPtiss                        peer             300.00         -          -          _          _        _           _         1          .                              2          Co,002  2.5         I,"               74             19
ilsnennAhNae Or trlsnss |/                . p           0 2 1/2        -          -          -          -         -                                                                                                MO-  -  L  _ -  -  32         15
; -Taiso st pnhilstplaa Op Ter^tiis  inst.                                                                                                                         0,05                 3,0F0                 4,00               t8            16
Tat-1 -pnLa tlaa                                                                                                            s,ocO               31,000               60,000                62, 000             i6, 00o              17
T-int -om  IIss.n-, 0n,--ata                                                                                              067,F40              -44o,0D0              80,                  73,000               3(9,00               39            10
0   tl aniir  nr 2C6 -2  sapp fra aotsafnna naniopntt sad 17% ror aan-alnsiOisd eAPTiOees   Sot,t,A1I1  sit stArr
30t0 00 50 ilcr nip, oAr peesrspe ltasitlnT. 0 p0015, pcrp npsttir nii y0y ain apat coani to sit oP itse lasetFlsT
eeFiip   aoonPA,n-i ripo pth  G v r Ca oi,trta'°nl To ,nipprpntketlO  % if tSslrsnltrp   Tts reasOnI 1   TssiAAisOoC
o,klsti a_ tbe s-rape 500205  asloantes arsiOsO to 03051P eOrtor-tt  -asbploynsn
Ti  ai P7e itraetiTe -listanirae iOn Plant rear Arteraoopletion aid 598 a! easi_e  'arl past ibn ssaos pr.






ANN1EX 4
Table 30
LI rT1X' MISMAETING PROJECT
(d) LHM HFiadenartern
Capital and Osecati.g Costs
(MSd.)
Year 1                 Year 2               Year 3               Year 4                      Year 5                 Year 6                  Years 1 - 6              Foreign       Taxes &
Ite.                   Unit       Unit Cost       Units    Cast        Unite      Cost        Units       Cost        Units       Cost        Units        Cast        Units         Cast     Tetal          Tetal         Exchange       DUties
Units         CeOt             %             %
CAPITAL COSTS
Snlta  1/
Khartoum Offine.                L.np son        349,000           -        -          -       149,000         -      200,000         -            -           -            -           '            -          -         349,000           52             15
PLMO Field Offices 2/               o.            4,600           5     23,000       6         28,000         -         -            -            -           -            -           -            -        11           51,000           52             15
Senior Grade Houses 3/             No            16,350           2     32,000        2        33,000         -         -                                                                                                 65,000           52             15
Middle Grade  -nooss 3/            No            12,300           2     25,000        3        37.000         -         -            .            -           -             -          -            -         5           62.000           52             15
Sub-Total                                                          gO,OOO                247,000                200,000                                                                                             527,000           52             15
Vahicles
Tru-k-Trailer Combination          No.           25,000           -        -          -          -            4      100,000         -            -           -             -          -            -         4          100,000           66             33
Trailers - Single Deck             No.            8,00            -        -                                  2       18,000         -            -           -             -          -            -         2           186000           66             33
- Double Detk             No.          10,000           -        _          _                       2        20,U000              -           -            -                              -          72         20,000           66             33
Six-Too Trunks                     N.             6,500           -        -          2        13,000         -         -            -            -           -            -           -            -         2           130O00           66             33
Foor ohbel drive pihk-up           No             5,900           5     30,000       12        70,000         -         -            -            -           -             -          -            -         17         100,000           34             61
Four wheel drive station  egon    So.             8,100           2     16,000        -                       -         -            -            -           -             -          -            -         2           16000           34             61
Passengen USda8                    No.            6,500           3     20,00o        -          -            -         -            -            -           -            -           -            -         3           20.000           40             55
Sub-Total                                                          66,000                 83,000                138,000                                                                                             287,000           50             47
EqUiP-.St
Head Of POt. Furniture &
Eqnip-ent                         Set           53,000           -        -                                                                    3000          -            -                                  1           53,000           60             36
Iwo radio telephones &
Antenna                            Sot           7,000           1      7,000        -          -            -         -            -             -          -             -           -           -          1            7,000          73             20
Offine tnternon                  System           4,500           -        -          -          -            -         -            1          5,000         -             -          -            -          1            5,000          45             5D
Copying Mahises                    No.            1,540           3      5,000        -          -            -         -            -            -           -             -          -            _          3            5,000          51             44
Library books                      Sot            5,000           1      5,100        -          -            -         -            -            -           -             -          -            -1                      5 O,O          60              -
File & Photo Eqoip ..nt            Set            3,000           -        -          1         3,000         -         -            -            -           -             -          -            -          I            3,000         5S              44
Sub-Total                                                          17,000                  3,000                                          58,000                                                                     78,000           59             34
Technial Services
Project Pccpnnotioo As-ist-noc  Lno/nonth         1,800          32     58,000        -          -            -         -            _            _           -             -          _            -         32           58,000          60             -
An'nhitsnte & Engineens 4/        E. cost            12           -     21,000        -        21,000         _          _           _             _          _             _           -           _          -           42,000           50
Sub-Tots1                                                          79,000                 21,000                                                                                                                    100,000           67
Total Capital Costt                                               242,000                354,000                338,000                   58,000                                                                     992,000          54             24
OPERATIhG COSTS
Dtaff 5/                                                               148,000                285,000                292,000                  293,000                   294,000                 274,000                1,596,000
Maintenance - Oopration
Buildings                        7 cost pa.        2.5            _       _           -         2.000         -        B,000         -          13,000        -          13,000         -        13,000                   49,000            52            15
Truck                            U N/p.o.         2,000           -       -           2         4,000         4        8,000         4           9 000        4           8 000        4          8 000       18          36000            77             17
Ocher Vehicles                   ho./P -          1,123          10    I1,OOO        22        23,000        22       25,G00        22          25 ooo       22          25 000        22        25 000      120         135.000            77            17
Sub-Total                                                          10,000                 31,000                 41,000                   46,000                   46,000                   46,000                 220,000            71             17
Other Openatino Caste
Veterinary Supplics  6/          Lomp Sac         10,000           -     10,000        -                                   _                                   --                                             -            10,000            57             29
Head Office Ront                  m2/p.c.             40         900     36,000      900        36,000       900        36,000        -             -          -             -           -           -      2,700         108,000            45             12
Offioc Sopplies                    Slet p...       200                     2,000       -         2,000         -         2,000        -           2.0 o                    2.000                   26                                                       36
Sob-Tonal                                                                                                                                        Ono12,000IOno4I,0                                                         am
Sub-Total                                                          52,000                 41,000                 41,p00                    5,000                     5,000                   5,000                  149,000            49             18
Totel Oparoting Costs                                             710,000                357,00D                374 000                  344,000                   345 000                 325.000                1933,000             12              4
Total Inve-t-nL Contn                                             452.coo                711,000                712,000                  402,000                   345,000                 325,000               2,947,000             26             11
1/  Building toots i-1,,de furniture and fiotures., excopt fo  the Kthartann Sedqotrnoro office
2/  iharhoou  PLMO staff oilS ace office opace at the Hocdq-ctcen.
3/    cousinS fon PLMO otnff will bh  provided in Awnil, Babonono, Singo ond Molnkhl
4/   Design of Khortoum Ilsdqoattot  offito
5/   soc noxt tobll Nlo  for dotoilo
f/   Initial stock for nolo aat -koet  and -il-oy holdio0 ys-dn
7/  Coble/tele- t.hsgee, subscriptions and o-tocol t-coel
Febru-cy 16, 1978






000D2                                                                         036860  4
Toble 33.
Year00001 04I0Year 40002.07                                                    -    ----
UnIts        Cot            
0010ot Conansi          eon/you          ~~~~~~ ~~~3,0      1        2,000          1        4.0Om         1        4,000         1        4.000         1        4.000           1       4,00         6         22.000
Oos---yt  t3oBad  llton                                    0              1        2.00           1        3.000         8        3000          I        3000          1        3,0             1       3,0          6          7.0
2,00                      2 1             1       3oI00          1        300           1        3,0           I        3.000                   3.000        0         17,00
Ot.nrotlonlooisooofflcen  "          2.000             1        2,000~         ~ ~ ~~~~~ 1  2.00               2,00          0        2,00           1        2,000          1       2,0          0         12,00(
000  2  -            0        2,000         2        2.0(32        2        2,000          1        2,010~~~~~~~~O  2      2.00        12         10.(3
Toptano                   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~   200~~~7         2        3,01           2        a .00         2        1.00           2       1.000          2        1000           2       1.00        13           ,0
O-Z                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~701                        1.00          I        1.0            1        100            1       1.6(                     4.00
Nasosogoos                                 300      ~     ~     ~    ~      ~     ~     ~    ~      ~    ~~ ~~~~~ 2        2  1,0(  2     2,00          2        1000            2       1,00        12          4,000
llltotooso  10  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_..Z222.0 4,000 ~,tP                                                                                              4.0                    4 000                  25.0ow
--1r0031                                                                      18,000                  20.000                 21,000                 22,000                 22,000                  22,00                  126,000
I, nanoot 02o1..ltoosoton  Ootnnootsso/ytta  2.100  1  4,000  1  1,000       1        3,000         I        3,000         1        3,000          1       3,            6         19.000~~~~~~:1   3,"    19100
4i21  .lek                                             1,0M ,0                                             ,0           1        I.0           1        1,000         1        1,00                    1.0O0        6          6,000
__onast Offt_s                                        1,i                        1,0c                    1,000         1        100  00      0I                                 .0    1           1    .0          6600
A-eit--000t                                             2.70              1I,0                             3,0                     ,00          1        30`23,0                                         ,0                6   16000
-toos Flit Cl-ke                                       1,M               2        2,200          2        2,00          2        200           2        2,0           2        2,00            2       2,00        12         12.000
~~~~~i  ~ ~ ~        ~       ~      ~      00              1          -            1    1                 1        1,000O        1        100            1         ,0            1       1w1                      ,0
2,000  1  1,1032          1       1,0301        ~ ~ ~~~~              ~~                                  ~      ~~~11,0 1 100 1  1 ,0  1  10001  6     8,00
42oo00003 ood0to Ottloso                   000~            ~~ ~                  ~~~ ~ 1  I   -                     1000          1        1, 000        1I        ,0            1        1,000        1          4,00
1,000  1  1,000     1        0,000         1        1,000         1 ~ ~~~~~~            ~ ~ ~~~~~~               ~          ~~ 1.00  1  100   1,1,00  6  6,000
00000003005                          1,000             0 ~ ~~~~~~~             ~ ~~                            ~~     ~~~~~~ 2,12 0  ,0   2,00  0  2,.000  2  1,000          2       2,000        12        12,00
Olanko                           800             3        0,000          3 ~ ~~~~~~        ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~              ~     ~~~~~~~           ~ ~        ~ 4,0(3  0  4.0O0  3  4.000  3  4,000  5  4,000  30  26,000
9--                                          W~~~~~~~~~0            4.0 5O                  4.0           3        4.000         3        4,00           3        4,0            3        .Ot        30         3,0
'Y,i.O                                                    7I3                     7 6,0                    3,00          5         ,0 33                 3,00                   3,00            5             3,00  3          21,0
Oeaeeogtol                 "               300~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo  7    3,00           2         2,W00        2         1.0O          2        2,00          7        2.000          2       2.00         42        2.0
04000s                                     300             5        4,000          3        1.000         3         0,000        3         1,000         3        1,000  1,1,000                     30          9,00
Coee.,,o1 ootO00t  Irfotan               2.000             1        0.000 1~'               2,00           1        1,000'        1        2,000         1        2,00           1        2,000        6         10,"0
0e104r2d0e6to000                                                                                                      1        1,000         1        1,00 MO       2         .0,            0       100                     4.000
oleotn,..oa.,                            1.000             1        1,000          1        1.000          1       1.000,.  1  '1,:000M                           1,130          1       1,00          6          0,0O0
400            2                        1                      I        1.00          1        1,00          1        6,0m            1       1000         6          4,00
30             1                                              I          -                    L,000          1        1,00           1       1,00         8          3,00
0..tdonon                           400             0           .     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~ 1I   I  -I  -  1  1,00  1  1,000  0       0,000
4100--                                                    300             2        4,00           $        100           3         ,00          5        1,000         3         1005                   1,0(        30          9,00
0,o.roo 00lroo                             00~      ~     ~     ~    ~      ~     ~~ ~~                        ~~~0 1I   1  100 1  1,00  1  1000         0        6,00           1       1000         6            O.00
00100,0                                    200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  8  4,00           0        0.00          0         0.00          a       0.00           8        0.0            8       6.000        48         34.000
All otanoos 1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~13,00                                        1 U.00                  13, W                 13.000                 0i3.0                   13. 00                    2.000
3ol-`1t                                                                       20,000                  70,000                 20,000, O                          710022.00                          72.700                 423.000
Olototoobo.kotoog Boonooth  3,300             1        5,000          1        3,1300        1        3,000         1        3.000         1        3,000           1       3,000        6         20,000 W  1  21:
,1oponl lerottan 00060011t  0  3,100       1        4,000           2        0.020         2        3.000         1        3,000         1        3.000           1      3.000         6         10.000i  3  1  3I. 
Icolil  S-nooe  000113.10                                                 1        4,03           1        300                     .0           3        3.00          1         3,00           I       3.00         6         13,00
000      2        ~~~~~~5,0      2        1 2    1      2         1,000         2        2,000         2        100            2       1,00         12         1,0
Typoton                                    200~            ~    ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~~ ~~~~~ 1  .  I  -  1  0,000  I  1,00         1        1,000        11     :  0,0           6          4,00
Olooka                                     820~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  3  40.00         3         2,000        0         1,000         3        2.1000        3        2.0co2                 2.0m        11          14,00
.......lo.                                               300             2          -            2          -           2         ,0           2        1,000         0         1,000          1       1,00        12          4,00
0210300000  1/   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                          4,-0                   4.000                  4.00                    4.100                 4O0(                    _2200
Sot-Total                                                 ~~~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~        ~        ~~~24,200  10,000  18,000  08,000  13,00000                            112,000
-g ~~~~ff                       3,~~3.30          1        2.00           1        3.000         1        3.000         1        3.000         1         3.000          1       3,000        0         00.00
100277111 A4,1013-                             20,0 1W                    20,0            1        000           1       0,00           1        20,000         1       20,000          -                    I        10.303         0008
Oo.Oio 000.rtrn      0             1.000             1        1,~~~    ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~000 1 1,0        2,1300         I       1,0           1         1,000          1       I,0                     6,0
LIOttoork To-2,otyroo Offooso             3.100~~~,         0        4,000          1        3,000         1        3.000         1        I300          1          ,0            1       3,00        4I7.
sootologtso                              ~~~~~~            ~ ~ ~~~~~~2,300  1  1,000  0      3.00 1O3,00                          1        3,000         2         30ON           1       3,00         6         17.00O
0l(l,.ttt 301230'o)  0       3,100            -           -           02      ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~           ~~~~~~ ~~~30.0  12  37,000  (2  32.000  02     32.00           11     3,0           6          0.0
A.Attoo-  IIO.OC                                         .0                                       3        9,00          3         ,0           3        800                      , 3           3        ,0          541,000
Footoot Oltiost                 2,000             -          .          ~~~      ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~10  04,0  10  04,373  12  24,000  12  24,000         13      24,0         60        120,4
000                                    1 0      1100          10       13.00         14        300 1313,000                          16      03,000       80         64.000
floOr                             000             -          .          ~~~      ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~           ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~20  16,000  20  18,00  2  1000  20   10.0MO  20     16,000       W10   0   0000
00400 bloats                               300             -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~9  2     1,00           2         O,00         2        2,00          2        1,00                   2000        10            ,0
0.Aotos                                    ~~~~            ~     ~    ~     ~     ~~~      ~~~~~~700  -    0  10,000  12  7.04   12        8,000 00          12      00         12M,(O               60         41.000
.....    ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    030                             -                      0         4.00          16        0, WO        16        5.00         14        3.0MO         10       3,000        so         24,000
.30000                     0              ~~~~            ~     ~    ~      ~    ~~       ~       ~~~~~300- - 0  2,0  10  4,0    2        4,000         10        4,000         12       400         60         10,000
dleonsas                    000             -          .           02        2,000        12        4,0300       11        4,00n        01        4,000          12       2,000       10         10,000~12  ,  U  4~  1~  ~  M. 
0I]..aon,.sS 1'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~        ~~4.00  _31,09  1, MO,  31, 07  _31W00          31, 00                 139.000
lob-Total                                                 ~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36,10 1O79.000  182.00        182,000                062,000                 1601,00                 923,000
01211 stofl                                                                  140,000                 10300                   9,01                   330020.0                          274,00051,30000
t;/ Otaos  n 251 oI salary            l... ilaaltsi aloessd  13% It- oo-nI. lasltdsi lye.tttels                 l
stat) polO 002 3000 0323 p50 yeas an    ..sssifid.  A  i.ll oopoalr  '0s  a  o0n30a l It',1 of  h
(ItOtooloyoo'  olols,int  the . ten.  asO  332.1                       3%-lOaOe   sTp00s 305L o..l-y.I   h..
0'5--' 17, 1320






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK M4RFETING PROJECT                                         ATbE  4 -
Table 32
(e) Technical Asistance                                                -
Inoesiantn Cost.
Year I               Y.et 2                    Yeor 3                 y-ar 4                   Year 5                    ye-r 6            'Lars S - 6           Fatsigs    Tanon &
Item                      Unit       Unit Coat       Units        Cost       Units        Cost       Units        Cost       Units        Cost       Units       Cost        Unit.         COSt    Tot1l           Ttotl      elu-Sse   Datins
Staff
Livastock & Meat M-rketing
Advisor        nan/yr.-      25,000            1        25,000        1         25,000        1         25,000        1        25,000         1        25,000          -           -         5          125,000       20
Li-stoclk & Meat SO-rk.ting
Econonist                     25,000            1        25,000        1         25,OD0        I         23.000        1        25,000          1        25,000         -           -         5          125,000       80
Ad.inisteotion & Finance
Adptsor            "          251000            1        25,000        1         25,000        i         25,000        1        25,000          1        25,000         -           -         5          125,000       so
Tr-nspertation Advisor                         25,000            1        25,000        1         25,000        1         25,000        1        25,000         1         25,000         _           _         5          125,000       No
Field Livstolk & M.eat
f-lskting Advisers                           20.000            1        20,000        1         20,000        1         20,000        1        20,000          1        20,000         -           -         5          100.000        so
Cleck of Works                      "          20,000            1        20.           1         20 20,        1         20.00i        1         20.000         1        20M000         -           -          5          1iO.000 so
SUb-Totl                                                             140,000                 140,000                 140,000                140,000                  140,000                                           700,000
Tr.isLLa
Fellohips abroad                   No.         3,000            1         3,000        3          9,000        4         12,000        4        12,000         -           -            -           -        12           36,000       95
Workahop & se inars              ftogr         30,000            -         5,000        -          5,000        -          5,000        -         5,000          -         5,000         -        5,000        -           30,000        50
Lo1,0    Training                              54,000                     .9000                                 -          90.00                                -          9.000         -        9.000        -           54.000        20
Snb-T.t.l                                                              17,000                  23,000                  26,000                 26,000                   14,000                 14,000                    120.000       50
St.di..
Ent-srn1 M-rkota Cv.n ltsnty     ms/onth        3.000            _           _          3          9.000        6         18,000        6        18,000          -          -            -                     15          45,000        s0
Printing                         Le p eon       5,000                                   -           -           -            -          -          5,000         -          -            -           -         -             5.000       50
Sob-Totl                                                                                       9,000                  18,000                  23,000                                                                    50000       77
Total                                                                 157,000                 12_1000                                         189 000                 154,Oi0                  14.000                   870.000       76
Febr.ary 16, 1978






ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Project Staff
Livetock and Meat Marketing Advisor
1.        This post should be filled with a senior individual with a minimum
of 8 years field and managerial experience in the purchase, movement, market-
ing, processing and export of livestock (preferably in Africa). It is important
that he should combine in his personality managerial capability with the ability
to advise and train. He would as requested by the Director General:
(a) advise on all matters pertaining to the organization and the
implementation of the Project;
(b) assist the Director of Domestic Markets in the performance
of his duties and use every opportunity to train this officer;
(c) be the team-leader of the internationally recruited team; and
(d) establish terms of reference for all local senior and middle
grade staff.
Livestock and Meat Marketing Economist
2.        This post should be filled with an economist with a minimum of 5 years
professional experience with emphasis on marketing, preferably in Africa, he
should be familiar with the problems of livestock marketing in the Middle East.
More specifically the economist would:
(a) assist and advise the Director of Marketing Research in the
performance of his duties, taking every opportunity to train
him in special aspects of livestock marketing and related
economics;
(d) design and supervise the market studies (Annex 7, Appendix 4)
to be carried out by the LMMC;
(c) at an early stage of Project implementation identify priorities
for the second stage of development of the institution and
revise the study program accordingly; and
(d) keep in constant touch with local and foreign price developments
and prepare working papers and policy suggestions for the
Director General as required.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
Advisor for Finance and Administration
3.        This post should be filled with a Certified Public Accountant or
equivalent with a minimum of 5 years professional experience in business
accounting, preferably in Africa. More specifically the advisor would:
(a) assist and advise the Director of Finance and Administration
in the performance of his duties;
(b) propose accounting and budget procedures for the LMMC;
(c) devise relevant fee collection and accounting procedures
for markets, railway holding yards and provincial livestock
offices; and
(d) assist the procurement officer with the procurement of
Project equipment.
Livestock Transport Officer
4.        This post should be filled with a transport engineer or equivalent
specialized in railway operations and having a minimum of 5 years of practical
experience. The Transport Officer would manage the transport office of the
LMMC, while training his local counterpart in all aspects of the duties in-
volved. He would more specifically:
(a) as requested by the Director of Domestic Markets, project
needs for block train services;
(b) supervise the day-to-day operation of livestock trains and
their maintenance and determine the allocation of services
and capacity to each railway holding yard;
(c) establish in cooperation with the SRC semi-annual requirements
for scheduled services and keep account of services provided
by the SRC under the agreement for the purpose of reimbursement;
(d) organize and supervise the aspects of the study program pertain-
ing to transportation by rail, river and road;
(e) pay special attention to possible improvements of transport
services between Khartoum (Sennar) and Port Sudan including
improvements to the sea-freighting of livestock;
(f) in cooperation with the Finance and Administration Department
and the SRC, establish livestock transport procedures and
relevant documentation with a view to information gathering
and strict accounting;



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 3
(g) identify and prepare plans for expansion of transport
services in a second stage of development.
Regional Livestock Marketing Advisors
5.        These two posts should be filled with livestock officers with
considerable practical experience of procurement and movement of livestock.
More specifically the officers would:
(a) assist in locating sites for new markets;
(b) train all Provincial Livestock Marketing Officers;
(c) supervise all market operations under the Project;
(d) assist the Construction Liaison Officer in supervising
construction work in the course of their normal inspection
of facilities;
(e) suggest further development of the market, transport and
stockroute system for the preparation of a second phase
project; and
(f) assist as requested in the conduct of the study program.
Construction Liaison Officer
6.        This post should be filled with an engineer with seven or more years
of experience, of which at least four years would be in the field of construc-
tion management. He would be a staff member of the LMMC and report directly
to the Director General. His main responsibility would be liaison with the
various construction agencies such as the Ministry of Public Works and
Construction, private construction contractors, the Rural Water Corporation,
the Corporation for Public Buildings and Works, the Headquarters Building
Architect/Engineer, or any other organization that may be engaged in construc-
tion for the LMMC. He should have sufficient stature to command respect
among the construction industry and the architect/engineering community as
well as other officials of Government. Specifically, he would:
(a) advise the Director General as to the acceptability
of designs and contract documents;
(b) advise and recommend to the Director General on the
selection of an architect/engineer firm for the LMMC
headquarters building;
(c) assist in analyzation of bids for construction,
construction equipment and vehicles, and construc-
tion materials and recommend the bid award;



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 4
(d) assist the procurement officer in customs clearance;
identification, and port clearance of all items identified
with construction;
(e) advise the Director General as to the approval of changes
in designs, construction, and work schedules;
(f) prepare construction schedules and see that they are
implemented;
(g) advise the Director General on the progress of construction
and identify problems and recommend their solutions, so that
the works would be completed with all due dispatch;
(h) set up a maintenance program and schedule with attendant
means of follow-up;
(i) set up an inventory procedure in order to account for
* equipment, spare parts and construction materials; and
(j) perform other related duties as directed.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Suggested Training Program for Senior LMMC Staff
1.        As LMMC is a new institution, its employees will have little
experience with the implementation of national marketing programs such as
LMMC will undertake over the next several years. In order to assist with
this task, Government has requested that a team of six internationally
recruited advisers be provided under the Project for five years. These
advisers would train the senior Sudanese staff, who would also receive
special training under the Project. A suggested Project training program
for these senior LMKC staff is described below; this program would be adjusted
during implementation to meet the specific training needs of LMMC's staff.
Headquarters Staff
1.  Director of Marketing Research - 12 months overseas post-graduate study in
marketing economics, market research and
the marketing of meat and live animals.
To be followed by 3 months study tour of
Kenya (domestic markets) and the Middle
East (export markets).
2.  Domestic Services Economist    - 6 months study tour with Kenya Meat
Commission (KMC) Kenya, in marketing
economics, wholesale and retail meat
trading and distribution.
3.  Export Services Economist        - 6 months study tour with Botswana Meat
Commission in marketing economics,
export meat trading, grading and pack-
ing and export of live animals. To
be followed by 2 months study tour of
Middle East markets.
4.  Director of Domestic Markets   - 12 months study tour (6 months to be
spent in Kenya and 6 months in Botswana)
in the marketing of livestock by auction,
by weight and grade, and by private
treaty; it would also include a study
of the transport of livestock on hoof,
by rail and by road. Economics of live-
stock marketing would form part of the
study.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2
Field Staff
5. Provincial Livestock Marketing
Officers (12)                 - Each officer would be trained by the two
internationally recruited Livestock and
Meat Marketing Advisers by means of a
series of short courses totalling 3
months, conducted partly at LMMC head-
quarters and partly in the area in which
they would be assigned. Courses would
include all aspects of livestock market-
ing, by auction, by weight and grade and
by private treaty. Market documentation
and movement control procedures would
form part of the study.
6. Market Masters/Superintendents,
for Secondary Markets and
Mobile Teams (17)             - Each staff member would attend seminars
and workshops at LMMC Headquarters in
Khartoum for a period of 6 weeks. The
course would cover all aspects of market
procedures and documentation. Public
relations pertaining to producers, trad-
ers and others engaged in the marketing
of livestock will form part of the study.
7.  Sociologist                     - A sociologist acquainted with pastoral-
ists and nomadic customs would accompany
the mobile teams and attend markets to
inform producers, traders and others
engaged in livestock marketing of the
aims of the LMMC and the advantages of
organized markets. He would expound
upon the benefits of selling young stock
and the opportunities for improved
living conditions, health and education.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Marketing Studies
1.        The following is a suggested list of studies which LMMC might include
in its program of studies to be carried out over the Project period by the
Marketing Research Department (with limited assistance from consultants):
I. Export Market Studies
1. Livestock and Meat Market Surveys
a) Saudi Arabia and Yemen
b) Gulf States
c) Lebanon, Egypt, Libya
Areas of particular interest:
- livestock and meat import volume and trends;
- consumer preference;
- structure of competition;
- air and surface transport connections with
major suppliers, and freight rates;
- Government import (taxation, quota, subsidies)
and price policies;
- constraints to further increase (or introduc-
tion) of imports from Sudan; and
- scope for air shipment of pistola and other
special meat cuts from Sudan.
2. Study of present and potential air transport
facilities for Sudanese meat exports to tradi-
tional and new potential markets. Areas of
interest;
- load capacities of regular and charter flights;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 2
- freight rates; and
- charter availability and rates.
3. Study of unrecorded export flows:
a) north - from North Darfur to Libya;
b) west - from North and South Darfur
to Chad, and from South Darfur and
Bahr El Ghazal to the Central African
Empire;
c) south - from Bahr El Ghazal/El
Buheyrat/Equatoria, and Jonglei/
Equatoria, to Zaire, Uganda, Kenya
and Ethiopia; and
d) east - from small Red Sea ports to
Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Gulf States.
II. Study of Specific Problem Areas in
the Domestic Marketing System
1. Study of present constraints in stockroute
channels.
2. Identification of natural barriers to es-
sential trade channel development and the
possibilities of removing or crossing these
barriers (e.g. by ferries, water point es-
tablishment).
3. Study of river transport potential and
present constraints and possibilities in
utilizing this potential for livestock.
4. Rail transport studies.
a) livestock rail movement statistics,
1969-1976;
b) analysis of causes for increase/de-
crease, by main loading stations;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 3
c) identification of dry-season trek
routes feeding main loading stations
from dry-season grazing areas -
present capacities and improvement
potentials;
d) identification of dry-season feeding
costs and resources at main loading
stations;
e) investigation into original and final
utilization of animals loaded from
the Nile provinces for shipment to
Port Sudan;
f) construction and test operation under
tough climatic conditions of a
sheep/cattle combined double-deck
wagon (in cooperation with SRC); and
g) identification of regular ferry-ser-
vice potential and efficiency of port
loading facilities for envisaged block
arrivals at Port Sudan and feasibility
study for potential investment.
5. Classification of traditional livestock and
meat standards and grades descriptions and
definitions and proposals for their conversion
into internationally classified terms.
6. Study of traditional livestock trade financing
and proposals for supplementary facilities for
the financing of fast expanding trade flows.
7. Study of present situation and constraints of
livestock breeding, stratification, staging,
finishing and fattening operations in White
Nile Province.
8. Marketing Studies in the Three Towns
a) present state of quality meat trade;
b) demand responses to price rises.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 4
9. Study of breeders' and fatterners' responses
to price rises.
10. Integration of comprehensive meat consumption
in national household budget survey presently
in preparation by Bureau of Statistics.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Establishment Order
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
1977
By virtue of the powers invested in him by Article 4 (1) of the
Public Corporations' Law of 1976, the Prime Minister has enacted the follow-
ing Establishment Order:
Name and Date of Entry into Force
1    -   This Order shall be cited as the "Order Establishing the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation of 1977" and shall enter into force on the
day of signature.
Definitions
2    -   Unless the context shall otherwise determine, the following terms
shall have the meaning shown against each:
Chairman       Chairman of the Board
Law             The Law on Public Corporations of 1976
Meat            The meat of livestock
Livestock      Bovines, camels, mutton and goats
Board          The Board of Directors of the Meat and Livestock
Marketing Corp.
Director        The Director General of the Board
Corporation    The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
Minister        The. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Natural
Resources



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 2
Setting up, Supervision and Headquarters
of the Corporation
3    -   A Corporation shall be set up that shall be named the "Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation" under the supervision of the Minister and
with headquarters in Khartoum.
Capital and Assets and Property to enter
into Possession of the Corporation
4    -   1-The Capital of the Corporation shall be EL
2-The Minister shall determine by Decree, after consulting with
the Minister of Finance and National Economy, such assets
and property that shall enter into possession of the Corpor-
ation.
Purposes of the Corporation
5    -   The Corporation shall have the following purposes:
a - Draw up and organize a plan for the marketing of meat
and livestock within and without the Sudan and offer
advice and consultative services to State agencies
concerned with such matters, to producers and to con-
sumers.
b - Regulate purchase, sales, distribution, shipment and
delivery of meat and livestock.
c -  Profer services and facilities required by operators
in meat and livestock production, and improve the
quality of such production.
d - Endeavour to strike a balance between local require-
ments for meat and livestock, and the need to export
meat and livestock abroad.
e - Carry out research work, studies, surveys and collect
information on foreign markets, production and local
consumption of livestock and meat.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 3
Competence of the Corporation
6    -   Mindful of the provisions of Article 5 of the Law and to attain the
purposes of the Corporation, the following competences shall apply:
a - Establish, manage, develop and organize, in cooperation
with other competent bodies, the marketing of livestock
in the Sudan.
b - Provide and regulate transport facilities to ship live-
stock and meat by rail, road, air and river.
c - Establish and manage stock-yards for the movement of
livestock and meat by rail, road transport, air and
river transport.
d - Collect all dues fixed for the above services.
Constitution of the Board
7    -   Mindful of the provisions of Article 9 (2) of the Law, the Board
shall be constituted of:
a - Undersecretary of the Ministry of Finance and National
Economy of his deputy.
b - Undersecretary of the Ministry of Trade and Supplies or
his deputy.
c - Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport and Communi-
cations or his deputy.
d - Undersecretary of the Ministry of Local Popular Government
or his deputy. 1/
e - Undersecretary for Livestock Resources, Ministry of Agri-
culture, Food and Natural Resources or his deputy.
f - Representatives of the Livestock Breeders Union to be
selected by the Union.
g - Represenative of the Livestock and Meat Traders and Ex-
porters Board to be selected by their Board.
h - A representative of the Butchers' Union to be selected
by the Union.
I/ Now abolished. A replacement will be named.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 4
Conditions for Membership
8    -   A member of the Board shall be:
a - Fully qualified and competent.
b - A Sudanese national of sound repute.
c - Not have been declared insolvent.
d - Not accused of any offense against personal integrity.
e - Not dismissed from Government or public sector service,
nor administratively held to account for any offense,
or proven inefficient.
Vacancies
9    -   A Member's seat shall fall vacant when:
a - He shall not meet any of the qualifications for membership.
b - He shall resign.
c - He shall become decedent.
d - Relieved of membership:
i - In the event that he shall absent himself from
three consecutive meetings, without authority
or acceptable excuse.
ii - Should such be in the public interest.
Authority of the Director
10   -   The Director shall have the following authority:  He shall
a - Carry out all policy decisions agreed upon by the Board;
b - Undertake all such action as he shall consider adequate
to the management of the Corporation;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 5
c - Effect expenditure of all allocations credited in the
Budget;
d - Draw up the executive and administrative structure of
the Corporation for approval by the Board.
Issued over my signature on this day           of            1397  A.H.
corresponding to         of         1977 A.D.
Al Rasheed al Taher Bakr
Prime Minister






0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a-ct
02
20
000
he~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
-J                                                         r- 
Ou ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          h      5
0L                                --------------
w.zo>






ANNEX 7
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Introduction
1.        The Sudan has consistently sustained a relatively high level of
marketed livestock production. This is evident from the comparatively high
average protein supply per capita (1.5 x the internationally recommended
minimum requirement) and the continuous official as well as unrecorded flows
of live exports to neighboring countries. In spite of the notable growth of
the area under cultivation, there is still ample opportunity for the intensi-
fication of extensive grazing systems. This would of course be dependent on
the expansion of rural water supplies and on the introduction of improved
range management practices. An even greater expansion of production could
be assured, however, with the adoption of more intensive husbandry practices,
improved veterinary services (especially for sheep), and stratification
of the livestock industry. This potential is already being tapped, and
the traditional livestock economy is showing signs of adpating to the demand-
dictated requirement for intensification and commercialization.
2.        Previous studies have emphasized the belief that the livestock
industry is characterized by an imbalanced surplus situation, i.e., of high
and growing beef surplus contrasted with a drindling surplus of mutton. This
concept was based on the assumption of a comparatively high income elasticity
of demand for mutton, while underestimating the production potential of the
national sheep population. Price developments - particularly the reaction
of the market during the temporary export boom of 1972-74 - have not supported
this belief. There appears to be an ecologically determined balance between
sheep/goats and cattle in the use of grazing resources; likewise consumption
habits have adapted to the ecological potential over centuries. This tendency
does not preclude the possibility of future changes, but indicates that they
will occur only gradually.
3.        Indications are that sheep production is in the process of adapting
to the increasing demand of the traditional Saudi Arabian export market while
at the same time avoiding a disturbance of the beef/mutton balance in the
supply of local urban markets. Intensive sheep fattening operations have
been undertaken in the central Nile valley, selective breeding efforts designed
to satisfy export market requirements have been initiated, and pastoralists
previously uninterested in sheep have established commercial sheep flocks.
Moreover, improved husbandry practices have resulted in accelerated flock
growth and higher offtake rates. However, beef production, lacking a simi-
larly pronounced price incentive and being constrained by the continual
deterioration of the grazing areas, has been slower to expand. This trend
may be accelerated if increased sheep and mutton exports induce a widening
differential in mutton/beef prices. To prevent this development, the



ANNEX 7
Page 2
potentially large beef surpluses in the south, particularly in Jonglei
Province, would have to be mobilized, channelled into the national market-
ing system and directed towards the northeastern deficit provinces and
the Saudi Arabian export markets.
A. Supply
Livestock Population
4.        Government has recently completed an aerial livestock survey,
the Sudan Livestock Pilot Census (1975-77). The national totals are remarkably
close to recent Government estimates; however, wide deviations in the the
provincial populations seem to indicate changes in livestock distribution
and composition. The census seems to confirm the assumption of a relatively
fast growth of the sheep population. Overall livestock density appears
to have increased considerably in the central, eastern and southeastern
provinces and to have decreased in the west (probably under rising population
pressure-and extensive dry-land cultivation); density appears to have also
declined in the north, possibly due to the drought in the first half of
the present decade.
Summary of Cattle and Sheep Population as Compared with Government
Estimates Based on Livestock Pilot Census (Census)
Above/Below                  Above/Below
Province            Cattle      Govt. Estimate    Sheep       Govt. Estimate
('000 head)        (%)        ('000 head)       (%)
Northern              14            )                212           29
Nile                  44            )                272        )
Red Sea               36            )+ 73            224          + 51
Kassala              643            )              1,590        )
Khartoum              57              -  7           270          +191
Gezeira              504            )              1,216        )
White Nile         1,564            ) +134         2,208        ) + 11
Blue Nile            900            )              1,079        )
Upper Nile         1,428              + 40         1,047        )+ 47
Jonglei            1,405            )                175        )
North Kordofan       937            )              2,410              6
South Kordofan    1,467             )830
North Darfur         907            )   33         1,470          - 25
South Darfur       2,735            )              1,232        )
Bahr El Ghazal    1,228             )                718        ) 11
El Buheyrat          701            ) -              333        )
West Equatoria       0.2            )+ 17            1.7          + 63
East Equatoria       798              +              915        )
Total       15,367              -  2        16,222           +  4



ANNEX 7
Page 3
A comparison of various population estimates is given below:
Livestock Population Estimates
Government Estimates Prior to Census
Census
1970/71          1974/75           1976/77        1975/76
(million head)
Cattle           12.6             14.7              15.8           15.4
Sheep            10.6             13.8              15.9           16.2
Goats             7.4             10.7              12.1           11.3
Camels            2.5              2.7               2.8            2.4
The aerial survey was particularly useful in that it made an assessment of
total wildlife resources possible (20% of meat supply in Jonglei and
approximately 50% in Equatoria is derived from game).  Cattle and sheep
on average supply approximately three quarters of the meat offtake from the
total herbivore biomass 1/ except in Northern, Red Sea and Western Equatoria
Provinces.
Livestock Population Growth Rate
5.        The Table below compares herd/flock growth rate estimates employed
by Government and other agencies in various reports. As could be expected,
variations are considerable. Government estimates appear to be the most
reasonable and have been employed in the present analysis. The high growth
rate for sheep appears to reflect the response of producers to market demand.
The growth rate for cattle is believed to be approaching a peak following a
high demand in the first half of the decade, and is likely to level off in the
future as a result of a shortage of grazing resources, climatic changes in
the northern provinces, increased human population pressure in the western
savannah, and a possible shift of emphasis by producers to sheep production.
Livestock Population Growth Rate Estimates
Government         FAO/CP 2/       FAO/IBRD 3/      IBRD
1974/77       1973    1980    1970 - 1985   1977   1985
(percent)
Cattle            3              4.0     2.5         2.6         3.0    3.5
Sheep             5.7            2.5     3.5         3.3         5.7    6.0
Goats             3.6            2.0     2.0         2.0         3.6
Camels            1.6                                1.2         1.6
1/   See Appendix 1, Table 1.
2/   FAQ/Cooperative Program.
3/   FAO/IBRD Meat Study, 1976.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Offtake Rates
6.        The Table below reviews available estimates of offtake rates.  It
is believed that the Government estimate of an offtake rate of 33% for
sheep (which is near the theoretical maximum) is too high; under present
conditions in the Sudan, an estimate of 25% appears reasonable. If the latter
estimate is accepted, it appears that the national sheep population has been
underestimated in the past - a finding which is supported by the Census. The
range indicated in Government estimates for cattle would appear to be realis-
tic and may even increase over the next decade as a result of increased
offtake of immature cattle. Offtake assessments for goats appear too low; if
kid slaughter is included the goat offtake rate would be 25-30%. A camel
offtake of 4% represents only domestic consumption; inclusion of trade offtake
for export would increase this figure to 6% or more.
Livestock Offtake Rate Estimates
(percent)
Govt. Estimates      Huntings      FAO/CP       FAO/IBRD       IBRD
1970-76  1977-83       1971         1973      1975   1976    1977
Cattle         6.9-9.0  8.7-9.5         12           9         9       9        7.5
Sheep          23-35    30-33           16          23       25       23       25
Goats          13-18    16                          18        35      18       25
Camels         4                                              10       4        4
Animal and Carcass Weights
7.        As animals are traded on a per head basis, the estimates of carcass
weight given below are very tentative:
Carcass Weight Estimates
(Average Carcass Weights, kg)
Government Estimates  FAO/CP                   FAO/IBRD                      IBRD
1975          1982     1973    1975   1976               1985               1977
Off-range Fattened Average
Cattle    165            170      162      127    150       150        200      160   135
Sheep       21            23       19.5    18       19.5     19.5       27.5    19.7  15
Goats       13            15        14      13      14        14         -       14    11
Camels       -             -      250      250    250       250          -      250    225



ANNEX 7
Page 5
It is believed that the range of estimates shown above tends to be some-
what on the high side. Most of the estimates appear to refer to mature
animals in inter-provincial and export trade flows. Most of the offtake,
however, is for immediate consumption in rural areas and includes a high
percentage of underdeveloped and immature animals as well as animals
slaughtered "in extremis". (In urban slaughter houses, the throughput of
"immatures" is on the order of 15-25%). Animals in the inter-provincial
and export trade are mature, in good condition and in the case of cattle,
selected for their ability to withstand a long trek. These factors were
taken into account in arriving at a set of weight estimates which would
be valid for the overall national herd; these in carcass equivalent, are
approximately kg 135 for cattle, 15 for sheep, 11 for goats and 225 for
camels as averages for areas outside Khartoum, White Nile and Gezira pro-
vinces. Average weights in the latter provinces were assumed to be some-
what higher (15% higher in Khartoum and White Nile and 10% higher in
Gezira). It was assumed, moreover, that cattle and sheep in the inter-
provincial trade and exported would have average carcass weights of 165 kg
and 18 kg respectively. In order to reflect the full importance of the
animal in human consumption in the Sudan, edible offals have been included
in meat offtake assessments in supply and consumption analysis; total meat
offtake was therefore calculated at 66% of liveweight.
Production Growth Rate Assumptions
8.        It is generally assumed that growth rates will remain positive and
slightly higher for beef than for other meats. A high growth rate of beef
production in spite of comparatively lower growth estimates for the cattle
population is projected on the basis of a higher potential for improvement
in offtake rates and liveweights as a result of increasing stratification of
the industry and improved transportation. The establishment of modern feed-
lot/processing operations in the east will increase the demand (and price)
for immature feeder cattle. Sheep production is no doubt rising faster
than that of cattle, but it appears that Government projections of mutton
production overestimate present sheep offtake rates and carcass weights.
Mutton does have an advantage, however, in the high breeding ratio of sheep,
which makes possible an increased offtake. All indications are that even
traditional cattle producers like the Rizeigat in South Darfur are paying more
attention to their sheep and improving their size by introducing Desert Sheep
blood in their flocks.
9.        Overall it is believed that meat production will grow at least
as fast as population growth. It is less clear, however, whether the live-
stock industry will be able to satisfy increasing per capita demand with
rising consumer incomes while at the same time making available increasing
quantities for the export market. It should be noted, however, that poultry
should play an increasingly important role in fulfilling consumer meat demand
requirements. Poultry production in the Sudan is on the threshold of indus-
trial production, and there is every reason to believe that poultry will
eventually be as popular with Sudanese consumers as it has proved to be in
the Middle East.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Supply Elasticities
10.       The growth rate estimates discussed above are determined by
biological, ecological, social and economic factors, with the latter
showing the greatest variations and unpredictability over long periods
of time. The price elasticity of supply is by far the most important
factor. The influence of price changes on supply trends depends on the
degree to which price incentives are being transmitted through the
marketing system, on the degree of commercialization in the livestock
sector, and on the specific price elasticities of supply. In most
areas of the Sudan, commercialization of the livestock sector has de-
veloped to a fair degree. Price elasticities of supply are reasonably
high on a short-term basis (up to one year), since the present market
system is characterized by buffer stock maintenance at all levels.
Severe frictions may appear, however, due to the time lags imposed by
the slow and seasonally determined movement over long distances caused
by the traditional method of trekking. Medium-term price elasticities
(1-3 years, sheep; 1-6 years, cattle) are presently constrained by the
low fertility rate/high mortality rate and slow growth of animals
under prevailing ecological conditions, but would nevertheless affect
output due to the existing scope for reducing offtake age and increasing
slaughter weight by fattening. Long-term price elasticities are high due
to the possibilities of herd/flock expansion on uncontrolled grassland
and the potential for fodder crop cultivation and by-product feeding.
The long-term price elasticity is further strengthened by the ability
of the producer, including the majority of transhumant pastoralists, to
shift capital and labor investment between crops and livestock, especially
in a country facing a buoyant internal and external demand for its agri-
cultural products.
B. Demand
Human Population
11.       The Pilot Census has also yielded an assessment of human popu-
lation by classifying visible homesteads with regard to numbers of people
normally housed in them. The results indicate for most provinces a much
higher than the officially recorded population (see Table below). This
is particularly striking with regard to the western and southern parts
of the country and Kassala province. The highest increase appears in the
South Darfur and Bahr el Ghazal provinces and coincides with a considerable
decrease in livestock numbers (see Table, p. 2) due to the rapid expansion
of dry-land cultivation under population pressure in large areas of these
provinces. Whether these results will be accepted by Government and lead
to changes in the present population growth rate estimate of 2.5% remains
to be seen. For the purpose of this report the higher Census numbers have
been used.



ANNEX 7
Page  7
Human Population Census.( Deviations from Previous Government Estimates
Total       Above/Below                     Total        Above/Below
Popu-       Government                      Popu-        Government
Province     lation       Estimates       Province        lation       Estimates
('000)         (%)                          ('000)          (%)
Northern         202       )- 25       Upper Nile            558          + 50
Nile             515           2       Jonglei               756        )
Red Sea          387         - 20      North Kordofan      2,598        )+ 70
Kassala        1,977         + 60      South Kordofan      1,273          +
Khartoum       1,268         - 10      North Darfur        2,090        )+100
South Darfur        2,840       )
Gezira         2,002             -     Bahr El Ghazal      2,132        )+100
El Buheyrat           872         +
White Nile       960             -     Western Equatoria    403         )+ 50
Blue Nile      1,354            -      Eastern Equatoria    822             5
Total for Country                                    23,009         + 44
Per Capita Meat Consumption
12.       One published household budget survey, the 1967/68 Household Sample
Survey, is the only source of information on per capita meat consumption.
Limitations on the use of the published survey report for meat consumption
estimates are:
(a) it covers only the settled population in the
northern provinces;
(b) it contains no price records which would make
conversion of expenditure data into quantitative
consumption data possible;
(c) the only table containing quantititive consumption
data is limited to national averages and is some-
what incomplete in its commodity breakdown. 2/
Nevertheless, the survey data have been used, applying observed retail price
differentials between provinces. Consumption in the southern province and
by the nomadic population sections in the north as well as provincial per
capita consumption figures have been estimated independently. Together
1/   Aerial photographic survey counts plus estimates of the population
in those urban areas which were not included in the Census (see
Appendix 1, Table 2).
2/   It has not been possible to ascertain whether the heading "lamb"
includes goat meat or not; it was assumed that it does.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
the 1967/68 Household Survey and the 1975/76 Pilot Census of livestock
and human population show a modest increase in per capita meat consumption
of both beef and mutton. The acceptability of the result tends to support
the validity of both surveys, since the resulting average meat consumption
of approximately 16 kg per capita indicates that, in spite of increased
population figures, the animal protein supply level is generally satis-
factory in the Sudan.
Income Growth Rate and Demand Elasticities
13.       The demand for meat is income and price elastic.  Income elasti-
cities have so far been calculated on the basis of expenditure patterns of
households in different income groups as recorded in the 1967/68 Household
Survey. By this method, the income elasticity of demand for mutton has been
found to be about twice as high as for beef. Apart from the weakness of
applying static relationships to a dynamic situation, the application of
income related demand elasticities in demand projections leads to unrealistic
results if not corrected by price elasticities. Our analysis (in Appendix 1)
indicates that net income elasticities of demand (corrected by price elasti-
cities) for meat as a whole and mutton in particular stayed below presently
assumed rates. Accepting an average per capita income growth rate of 2.3%
during the 9 year period 1967-76 (as estimated by Government), the increase
in meat consumption leads to net income elasticities of 0.5 for beef and
meat in general and 0.6 for mutton, and somewhat lower elasticities for goat,
camel and game meat. Higher demand elasticities would result from a downward
correction of the income growth estimate (which might be regarded as too
high), but the closeness of income elasticities for beef and mutton would
remain. The relative increase in mutton consumption indicated by urban
slaughter statistics may be balanced by increasing subsitution of mutton by
goat meat in rural areas where the profitability of sheep production for
Khartoum and export markets is giving the sheep increasing status as high
value trade stock. Frequent statements by consumers in middle and higher
income groups in Khartoum indicate a growing preparedness to increase the
share of beef consumption - partly for reasons of economy and partly because
of a desire to diversify their meat intake by venturing into veal, and prime
beef cuts. This tendency could be explained as the influence of cross price
elasticity in combination with changing consumption habits in a dynamic
development situation. With an expected doubling of the per capita income
growth rate in the Six year Plan Period 1976-77 - 82/83, net income elasti-
cities of demand will play a crucial role in determining meat availability
for export.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
C. Prices
Price Trends
14.       The rapid meat price increases during the export boom 1972-74
created the public impression of dwindling meat supplies for domestic
markets and need for the protection of national livestock resources. What
was overlooked is the fact that for a long period prior to this boom
livestock and meat prices had been relatively stagnant, and when they
finally increased they were making up for the time lag in adapting to the
general inflationary trend.
Livestock Prices in Overall Price Trends
(index for selected commodities)
I/    I/           ~~~2/        2/
1966/67__   197__75__     1975'76 6    1976/77-
Cost of living, overall             44-47          100         100-105      105-110
Cost of foods, drinks & tobacco   42-45            100         100-103      103-110
Sheep                               47             100         100-105      105-112
Cattle                              44             100         100-105      105-110
Livestock overall                   43             100         100-105      105-112
Dura (Millet)                       44             100          98-103       97-102
Wheat                               39             100
Groundnuts                          31             100
Sesame                              38             100
Karkadeh                            39             100
Charcoal                            45             100          125        135
Firewood                            26             100
Kerosene                            39             100          120       140
Textile Goods                       48             100
1/   National Accounts Dept., Govt. Bureau of Statistics.
2/   Estimates, derived from incomplete data, kept at Nat. Accounts Dept.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
15.       The continued increase of the wholesale price index in 1976/77
seems to indicate the increasing quantities of export trade animals entering
the Omdurman market following the lifting of the export ban in October
1976. As only average market prices are recorded, the better finished
export stock tend to increase the average price recorded without necessarily
reflecting a general price increase per kg live or carcass weight. In fact,
meat price records kept by the Bureau of Statistics show a slight drop during
most of 1976. In March 1977, retail prices had firmed up again to 1975 levels,
fueled by the resumption of exports. It must be remembered, however, that
it is these exports which are so obviously needed to maintain the price
incentive needed to develop the livestock industry.
Meat Prices in the Three Towns, July 1975 - Dec. 1976
Comparison with Household Index
Cost of living      Food, drink, tobacco   Mutton        Beef
January 1967   100                  pt/kg        pt/kg
July      1975          239                                       700         567
August       "          250                                       700         500
September   "           240                                       733         600
October                 221                                       767         500
November    "           217                                       700         500
December    "           218                                       700         500
January   1976          210                  202                  500         360
February    "           204                  199                  500         400
March        "          204                  193                  500         400
April        "          208                  199                  500         400
May          "          220                  218                  633         500
June        "           233                  232                  700         500
July        "           238                  241                  717         500
August       "          248                  256                  733         533
September  it           236                  237                  750         533
October                 226                  222                  717         467
November    "           229                  218                  600         467
December    "           241                                       650         467
Source:  Data provided by National Accounts Dept., Govt. Bureau of
Statistics.
The slackening of prices for beef during 1976 before the lifting of the ban
was more pronounced than for mutton, indicating the relatively greater
dependence of the cattle export flow (via Khartoum) on official channels;
in contrast the unofficial export flow of live sheep to Saudi Arabia seemed
to have continued at quite a considerable rate during the ban.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Producer/Consumer Price Split
16.       Existing price statistics do not present a basis for valid price
comparisons. Livestock price records show average market prices for animals
of different age, sex, race and condition. Meat (retail) prices show mostly
provincial control prices which are rarely observed. Comparisons made on the
basis of existing records tend to exaggerate the difference between prices in
producing areas and those in the main consumption and export markets, where
animals and meat of superior quality are traded. Price relationships also
show significant seasonal variations in areas without access to major markets
in the dry season. Improved stockroute connections and rail transport facili-
ties would greatly enhance to year-round supply responsiveness to market
incentives.
17.       With regard to butchers margins, the general observation in Africa,
i.e., that these are principally covered by "5th quarter" sales, seem to apply
also to the Sudan. This belief is supported by the results of a traditional
"silent" auctioning of a mob of approximately 40 healthy steers out of a
fresh stockroute arrival from Ed Da'ein. The average carcass weight of the
animals was assessed independently by experienced butchers as between 168-175 kg.
The finally accepted offer was ESd 85 per head. This price would just be covered
by the carcass sale at the ruling retail price of 50 piasters. All slaughter,
wholesale and retail butchering expenses plus profit are borne out of 5th
quarter sales, (including "afsha" (soft offals) head, feet horns and hide)
normally yielding approximately 12% of the total retail value of the animal,
i.e. approximately ESd 10.50 in this case. Expenses and risks to be covered
include market and slaughter fees, condemnation insurance, spoilage, stall
fees, transport and labor. The sheep butcher seems to have a tighter cost/
price margin, since he pays slightly more for the animal than the carcass
meat sale brings (a first grade sheep of approximately 21.5 kg carcass weight
would cost about ESd 18 and sell for 80 piasters/kg). This situation might
have arisen from a hardening of sheep prices with increased export demand,
reinforced by consumer resistence to further price increases. It could also
reflect a normal situation during times of high meat prices, since the sheep
5th quarter is of relatively higher value than that of cattle (approximately
4% higher) because of the higher price received for sheep skins as compared
to hides.
Meat Price Differentials and Controls
18.       Meat price controls (which are coming to be recognized as ineffective
by the central Government) are still introduced by many provincial governments.
These have caused temporary supply problems, e.g. at Wad Medani where the
enforcement of unrealistic control prices in 1976 led to trade stock by-passing
the Gezira deficit area in favor of the Omdurman market. Another important
disadvantage of the price controls is the fact that they interefere with normal



ANNEX 7
Page 12
price and quality differentiation in the meat market 1/. Cost price calcula-
tions in the beef fattening trade in the Khartoum area showed that fattening
for domestic markets is only profitable as long as a quality bonus per kg
carcass is paid by consumers. This is presently the case since enforcement of
the uniform control prices is somewhat relaxed (the same situation holds for
veal and fattened mutton).
Meat Prices in Khartoum Market, March 1977
(piasters per kilogram)
beef (geshashi) 2/       50         mutton (geshashi)        70-75
beef (da'ol) 3/          55-60      mutton (fattened)        75-85
veal (geshashi)          55-60
veal (da'ol)             60-70
Equally important is price differentiation between different carcass parts
and cuts within the same carcass grade; such differentiation is utilized
only in a few quality meat shops.
D. The Export Factor
Traditional Channels (Table 1)
19.       Sudan is a traditional livestock supplier for Egypt (camels, cattle
and minor quantities of sheep) and the Arabian penisula (sheep and cattle,
and minor quantities of camels and goats). Official livestock exports to
Egypt have decreased in importance due to balance of payment difficulties;
while export of camels continues, the shortfall in cattle exports was com-
pensated by a sudden increase in cattle shipments to Saudi Arabia. On the
Arabian peninsula, 90% of Sudan's exports enter via Jeddah, with about 10%
probably being trans-shipped to the Gulf States. The balance is shipped
directly to the Gulf States, notably Dubai, Kuwait, and Qatar. The total
volume of official livestock exports has not changed much over the past
15 years, and has been fluctuating between 10-20,000 head of cattle and
100-250,000 sheep. Though Saudi Arabia is now the leading importer of
Sudanese livestock (taking about 80% of the total), it is surprising
that the fast rising meat consumption in this country is only moderately
reflected in Sudan's export statistics (see Table below).
1/   This might be rectified by highly differentiated control price schedules.
It is unrealistic, however, to expect that such schedules could be ad-
ministered efficiently.
2/   Meat from animals slaughtered direct from the trek.
31   Meat from animals which had been reconditioned or fattened.



ANNEX 7
Page 13
Livestock Exports to Saudi Arabia and
Gulf States
Saudi Arabia       Gulf States            Livestock Wagon Loads
Cattle    Sheep    Cattle    Sheep    20 Cattle  100 Sheep  Total
1972/73        1,590      195,000     70      8,000       83       1,950      2,033
1973/74        8,190      202,000     40    16,000       407       2,020      2,427
7/74-1/75 1/  11,200      169,000  1,120    20,000       616       1,690       2,306
1/   Assuming July-Jan volume represented 75% of hypothetical 12 months flow
without the ban.
Several possible explanations suggest themselves; the most likely are:
(a) Infrastructural bottlenecks in railway and shipping
facilities which preclude a rapid increase of export
flows via Port Sudan. Since railway wagon allocations
for each year have to be requested in advance and
as there is a general shortage of wagons and locomotives,
the hindrance to fast adaptation to market opportunities
becomes obvious.
(b) Restricted entry into the Jeddah Market. While no formal
restriction exists, it is known that this trade is con-
centrated in the hands of a very few Sudanese and Saudi
merchants. In view of the infrastructural bottlenecks,
the official red tape involved, and the fast moving
market situation in Jeddah (where suppliers from all
over the world compete), long experience and reliable
personal connections are indispensable. (One businessman
pioneered a financially marginal air shipment of sheep
carcasses to Jeddah after he had lost heavily in the
attempt to join the more profitable trade in live sheep.)
(c) Competition on price, quality and variety is hardening
as the sheep and mutton market in Jeddah grows.
Less likely explanations are:
(a) Maximization of profit. The f.o.b. price of Sudanese sheep
ex Port Sudan is very high, US$70-75 (ISd 28-30). The
possibility exists that merchants dominating the trade
manipulate supplies in order to maximize profits.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
(b) The Sudanese sheep trade supplies only a limited consumer
group or a specific limited type of consumption with
little growth potential. It is said that only a small
portion of Sudanese imports reach the butcher trade; this
might indicate that demand is for large, high quality
animal for private slaughter. This is to some extent
confirmed by reports that most of the carcasses flown
to Saudi Arabia since February were retailed whole to
consumers by a central distributor in Jeddah.
(c) Unrecorded exports (from small Red Sea ports) might have
grown at a faster rate than official exports via Port
Sudan.
Unrecorded Exports
20.       Other important traditional but unrecorded trade flows in cattle
are reported to leave the Sudan towards the Central African Empire and
towards Uganda, Kenya and possibly Ethiopia. These are not felt as much
as the unrecorded flows of sheep in the north and east, since they result
from cultural cross-border migrations outside the reach of the national
marketing system. The trade volume involved however is substantial
(probably in the order of 50,000 head), and marketing policies should be
directed towards attracting an increasing share of these resources and
regularizing the remainder by legalizing and organizing exports.
Competition with Local Demand
21.       Before the 1972-1974 export boom, both domestic and export demand
were reasonably well satisfied without major frictions. The Omdurman market
on the whole appears more sensitive to internal competititon for slaughter
animals than to demand for animals for live export. While the live animal
exporter has a well organized supply which often bypasses the Omdurman market,
the meat exporter (who is often a newcomer in the livestock trade with imited
working capital) has a tendency to purchase at least part of his requirements
in the Omdurman market in direct competition with the local wholesale but-
chers; this naturally has an immediate effect on local prices. Omdurman
slaughter records for domestic markets show a serious decline in cattle and
sheep slaughter during the sharp rise in meat exports; this was reflected
in the meat shortages (or price-related falls in domestic consumption)
which made the ban unavoidable. The supply analysis in the Table below is
an attempt to analyze factors influencing these statistics.



ANNEX 7
Page 15
Export Versus Domestic Requirements During the Export Boom. 1972/74
1971/72         1972/73         1973/74          1974/75         1975/76
Beef   Mutton  Beef   Mutton  Beef   Mutton  Beef   Muttou  Beef   Mutton
Omdurman: Domestic Slaughter - carcass          12.7      4.6   10.8      5.0    9.0       5.0    9.1      2.2    9.1       4.5
offalsr        3.8      1.4    3.2      1.5    2.7       1.5    2.7      0.7    2.7       1.4
Small provincial slaughterhouses, carcas*-   0.3                 0.5              1.0      0.2    2.4      1.1    1.7       1.4
Private slaughter estimation                     1.3      1.6    1.2      1.7    1.2       1.7    1.4      2.0    1.4       1.7
Export slaughter "offals&"                       0.1              1.7             3.4      0.9    1.4      0.1
Slaughter weight increase 4/                               _      -                               1.8      0.4    3.0       0.9
Total                                        18.2      7.6   17.4      8.2   17.3             18.8      6.5   17.9 9     .9
Combined Total                                   25.8             25.6            26.6            25.3             27.8
Other neat, esti=atior/                              1.2              1.4             1.8              3.2             2.0
Total meat, estimatiou                           27.0            27.0             28.4            28.5             29.8
Carcass export                                   0.3             5.7             11.3      2.9    4.3      0.4      -         -
Live export meat equivalentJ-                    2.1      2.8    5.7      5.4    4.0       6.7    3.9      5.3      -         -
Total export meat equivalent                  2.4      2.8   11.4      5.4   15.3      9.6    8.2       5.7     -         -
Total Khartoum cons. & export:71
3eef and Mutton                           20.6    10.4   28.8    13.6   32.6    18.9   27.0    12.2   17.9            9.9
Other herbivore  8eat2                          1.2             1.4              1.8             3.4              3.5
Total                                        32.2            43.8            53.3             42.6            31.3
1/ Omdurman abattoir, using conservative carcass weight assumptions of kg 50 (mature cattle), 100 (imnatq;es) and
18 (sheep), which are corrected from 1974 ovward by an allowance for slaughter weight increase (ref. ± below).
2/  All-non-carcass parts used for consumption, including head and feet, i.e. 15-16% of liveweight or 31-33% on
carcass weight, according to Omdurman slaughter analysis.
3/ The rapid slaughter increase in these facilities during this period seems to indicate that the growth of the
Three Town area combined with the Omdurman abattoir congestion during the meat export boom made outside slaughter
for Three Towns suburban areas attractive; only carcass weights are included in Xhartoum supply calculation.
4/  With the export ban (from January 1975) the full impact of staged and ftnished export animals on the local market
resulted in substantial carcass weight increases in local slaughter- this e.fect prevailed with continued high
market prices which maintained marginal profitability for export-type fattening operations.
5/  Cousumption of goat and camel meet rose during 1973175, although these animals figure extremely low in Omdurman
slaughter records.
6/ Cattle and sheep only.
7/ Only official exports included.
8/  ILcluding experts of camels and goats vhich rose under the export ban on cattle and sheep.



ANNEX 7
Page 16
The table contains a number of estimates and assumptions which are open
to argument. Provided the basic trend shown is accepted, one may draw
the following conclusions:
(a) The ability of the traditional marketing system to
cope with a rapidly rising demand for quality animals
is remarkable.
(b) The time lag in the manifestation of shortages supports
the assumption of a normal prevalence of buffer stocks at
all levels.
(c) The more sensitive medium-term reaction of the sheep market
and its relatively fast recovery indicate the limited nature
of fattening and staging operations in the sheep sector as
well as the fast response of producers to the market
challenge.
(d) Confronted with continued high beef prices after the imposi-
tion of the ban and simultaneously deprived of the ample
'offal" supplies at dumping prices, low income households
had to reduce consumption.
(e) Higher income mutton consumers, having resisted the price
increase by reducing their purchases during 1973/74,
resumed their level of consumption in the following year,
showing lesser sensitivity to the price increase than
beef consumers.
(f) Overall Khartoum supplies did not decline, but per capita
consumption of beef declined gradually due to a relatively
high price elasticity of demand, while mutton consumption
per capita fell sharply and recovered equally rapidly.
(g) With beef prices maintaining present levels, i.e.,
declining in constant terms against the continued general
inflationary price drive, per capita consumption can be
expected to return to previous levels with the addition
of an increase due to rising real income.
(h) By upholding the present minimum price criteria for allowing
exports and by adding a safeguard for supplies of low price
beef to low income consumers (a fixed price on beef w/bone),
Government would be in a position to remove other restrictions
on export thus creating an incentive to the harmoneous develop-
ment of exports in step with the ability of livestock producers
to increase their output.



ANNEX 7
Page 17
Export Prices and Controls
22.       After the lifting of the export ban, livestock and meat exports
have been controlled by official minimum f.o.b. prices and export quotas.
The prices are illustrated below:
Minimum Export Prices for Livestock and Meat, March 1977
Livestock                  US$/head f.o.b.    Meat          US$/ton f.o.b.
Cattle (400 kg) 1/              340             beef         1,500 (1,800) 2/
Steers (250 kg)                 220             veal         1,800 (2,000)
Sheep:
Hamadi (44-50 kg)              75             mutton       3,000 (3,500)
Kababish (42-46 kg)            70               "
Watish (40 kg)                 60               "
1/   Approximate weight categories.
2/   Prices in brackets were those applied immediately after the ban
was lifted.
23.       The export prices and quotas imposed in 1976 were established
under the following guidelines 1/:
(a) minimum export price will not be less than local
market price;
(b) no quota restriction on cattle and beef exports;
(c) sheep and mutton export quota: 200,000 head;
additional quotas available for irrigated fodder
and sheep breeding farms;
(d) sole export abbatoir: El Kadero;
(e) export prices and specifications to be stated
in license application according to standards
set by AFNR 2/;
(f) export pricing committee representation: Ministry
of Commerce and Supply, AFNR, and Bank of Sudan.
1/   Prime Minister's Resolution 65 (M 1/A/5/4):  Bases and Principles
Governing the Export of Meat and Livestock.
2/   Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.



ANNEX 7
Page 18
E. Basic Assumptions and Projections
24.       On the basis of the above findings, a set of parameters was selected
for use in projections of future livestock production, consumption and exports.
These are detailed below:
Projected Beef and Mutton Production, 1976-83
.Cattle               Sheep
1976/77  1982/83      1976/77  1982/83
Herd size 1/ ('000 head)                  16,000   19,400        17,000   23,500
Herd growth rate 2/ (%)                         3        3.5         5        6
Herd offtake rate 3/ (%)                        7.5      8.0       25       26.5
Offtake live weight 4/ (kg)                  285       300          31.5     33
"Meat" offtake (66%) 4/ (kg)                 190       200          21       22
Total "meat" production 4/ ('000 tons)       220       300          88      137
Losses on stocks in trade, incl.
mortality, condemnation and
spoilage 5/ ('000 tons)                        2         3           1        2
Meat available for consumption and
export ('000 tons)                           218       297          87      135
1/   Based on 1975/76 Pilot Livestock Census.
2/   Past years' performance according to Government estimates and an esti-
mated increase stimulated by urban and export demand incentives.
3/   Taking into account the gradual process of commercialization of stock
management in certain areas and the increasing stratification and mixed
farming operations; trend estimated to continue towards 9% (cattle) and
30% (sheep) offtake rates by 1990.
4/   "Meat" = carcass and edible slaughter "offals".  Offtake weight gains
achieved through increased mixed farming, finishing and fattening
activities, increasing availability of feed stuff and increased export
share in production.
5/   3% for cattle, 4% for sheep; applied to inter-provincial and export
trade only.



ANNEX 7
Page 19
Local Consumption and Exportable Surplus 1/
Beef                Mutton
1976/77  1982/83      1976/77  1982/83
Meat available for consumption 2/
('000 tons)                                  218       297          87       135
Consumption 3/                               203       273           77      105
Exportable surplus                            15        24           10       30
1/   Population, population growth rates, rate of growth of expendable per
capita consumer income, income elasticity of demand and other parameters
on which this analysis is based are presented in Appendix 1.
2/   See Table above.
3/   1976/77:  per capita consumption of 3.25 kg mutton, 8.7 kg beef, and 4.2
kg other meat.
1982/83: per capita consumption of 3.8 kg mutton, 10.0 kg beef; and 4.7
kg other meat.
F. Options for the Future Development of the Livestock Industry
Price Policy Options
25.       Various options for direct and indirect control of domestic and
export price levels are available - a number of which are being practiced by
Government:
I.   Control of Domestic Price Levels
(a)  Direct control:  Government fixed maximum meat prices.
In the past many provincial Governments have controlled
prices for meat. It is generally agreed that the control
price system has failed to guarantee the availability of
meat to consumers at the stipulated prices, that enforce-
ment has been impossible, and that the lack of flexibility
has often aggravated supply/demand imbalances. In times
of scarcity, rigid enforcement of meat control prices has
driven livestock to markets outside the jurisdiction of
the control authority, e.g. outside the province or even
across national borders. In times of ample supply it has
inhibited the free market tendency toward lower prices,
as butchers maintain and defend the control price as the



ANNEX 7
Page 20
"Government price". The political implications are that,
once a Government has assumed pricing responsibility, it
gets the blame for its inability to prevent uncontrolled
price rises or, in the case of rigid control, for its
inability to keep the market supplied. Where prices are
increased in response to market conditions, Government
must then bear the burden of an unpopular decision.
(b) Indirect control. Government efforts can also accelerate
the process of supply and demand adaptation by:
(i) Improvement of market information systems. The
development of an efficient market information
system could contribute greatly to balancing
regional differences and commercializing pro-
ducers' attitudes.
(ii) Improved mobility of trade stocks. In order to
reap the full benefit of improved market infor-
mation systems, year-round and reasonably fast
mobility of trade stocks is desirable.  Expansion
of the dry season stockroute network, substantial
improvements in livestock railway transport, and
organization of river transport and ferry ser-
vices will all have highly beneficial effects on
the degree of supply response to price signals.
(iii) Regulation of exports. Accounting as they do
for 6-10% of total production, exports are an
important factor in the establishment of do-
mestic supply/demand balances. It is therefore
tempting for Government to manipulate export
flows in order to influence domestic demand/
supply balance in desired directions. Two
factors however make the use of this instrument
problematic:
(1) the relative importance of unrecorded
exports;
(2) the requirement for regularity of supply
in establishing and maintaining export
markets.
Intervention in the pricing and flow of export supplies therefore carries
the risk of further increasing unrecorded exports as well as hurting Sudan's
competitive position in its export markets. (Interventions presently prac-
ticed in the Sudan are discussed in more detail below.)



ANNEX 7
Page 21
11. Control of Export Prices
(a) Export taxation. Although export taxes are primarily
intended as a revenue earning measure, the export tax
also acts as a protective barrier which foreign demand has
to overcome in order to attract export supplies. Gradual
lowering of the export tax will improve Sudan's competitive
position and increase official exports, since one of the
attractions of unrecorded exports is the evasion of this
tax.
(b) Controlled minimum export prices (para. 22). Minimum
export prices serve three aims:
(i) To prevent large foreign exchange losses through
export sales at manipulated prices; this is
only relevant in a situation of artificially
maintained foreign exchange rates resulting
in shadow currency rates. While the minimum
prices set a floor for the scope of such mani-
pulation, the system needs to be supplemented
by continuous surveillance of price develop-
ments in Sudan's export markets.
(ii) To add the maximum feasible value to the live-
stock destined for live or carcass export
through selection of breeds, fattening and
finishing in order to earn as much foreign
exchange as possible while taking a relatively
low share of total offtake. This is benefi-
cial as long as over-stocking does not require
accelerated offtake, part of which would go
directly for export.
(iii) To maintain a protective barrier similar to the
export tax but with much greater flexibility.
Minimum export prices, if applied, must be set low enough
to permit quality differentiation and a flexible market
strategy in the export trade. The danger is that they
might tie up the trade in administrative red tape, with
the result that Government and traders become complacent
and lose spot opportunities in high as well as low price
markets.
(c)  Export quotas.  This is superficially the most simple, but
also the most potentially harmful tool in regulating ex-
ports for purposes of domestic price policy. Its admin-
istration requires flexibility on the part of Government



ANNEX 7
Page 22
officials involved. In most cases, quota systems induce
general uncertainty and irregularity into the trading
system, thereby raising risks and other cost elements.
They also tend to cement the internal competitive struc-
ture by creating a quota-sharing ring of exporters,
blocking entrance for new entrants. Overall, quota
systems tend to raise trade margins and stabilize export
volumes far below their potential levels. Their appli-
cation in the Sudan when the ban was lifted is under-
standable, since the extent of the revival of official
export activities and their impact on the local markets
was difficult to predict. The experience gathered over
the past six months would appear to justify their relax-
ation and gradual abolition.
(d) Automatic switch rule. This is contained in the Prime
Minister's resolution No. 1 (para. 23) which stipulates
that exports will not be permitted at prices "below the
domestic market price" (plus export cost including net
export tax). In the Sudan, as in many exporting countries,
there are hidden attractions in maintaining exports at
prices below the domestic market price and thereby jeopardiz-
ing domestic market supplies. (One of the most important
of these is the desire to obtain foreign exchange.) Such a
regulation is therefore essential and introduces self-
discipline in the export trade, since it induces exporters
to keep domestic markets under surveillance and to share
trade stock assembled for export between domestic and export
markets as and when necessary in order to keep domestic
prices below the automatic switch level.
The Export Option
26.       In view of the lifting of the export ban and the Six Year Plan
target of hSd 80 million annual export earnings from livestock and meat, the
option for export has clearly been taken by Government. Applying projected
export prices to export surplus projections for 1982/83, this target appears
to be within reach. It must be realized, however, that this achievement
would be impossible with a hesitant, overly consumer protective Government
attitude. While it is obvious that the financial export goal can be reached
only with substantial sheep and mutton exports, Government is very much con-
cerned with the question of exactly how many sheep the country can afford to
export. If it should decide to limit exports of sheep in favor of expanded
cattle (beef) exports, it is estimated that the total export tonnage would
have to be expanded to 1.5-1.8 times present levels to achieve the desired
level of export earnings. The inevitable rise in beef prices accompanying
any such effort would undoubtedly have a real effect on low and lower middle
income consumers. On the other hand, a continuous price incentive is needed



ANNEX 7
Page 23
if the sheep industry is to reach its full potential. This development should
not be limited to a few commercially organized ventares around Khartoum and
in the Nile Valley, as the many small producers in the rural areas of the
country could together supply much larger quantities of high quality export
sheep than the modern enterprises. With minimum f.o.b. export control prices
set high enough to exclude immature and unfinished animals from the export
trade, it should be left to the trade to provide the right kind of animal
through the marketing system.
27.       Furthermore, the Government must take positive steps to assist
Sudanese exporters to expand (perhaps even maintain) their current share of
the Middle Eastern market. Livestock exporters in Somalia, Turkey, Romania
and Australia are making a determined effort to establish or expand their
position in the key Saudi Arabian market, and Sudanese exporters will face
increasing competition in this and every other overseas market. Efforts must
be made to make the most of the Sudan's comparative advantage in live export
sales, to diversify exports, and to seek new markets.
28.       Diversification of Exports.  In order to fully exploit market oppor-
tunities and expand the volume of livestock and meat exports, product diversi-
fication is desirable. While presently export of live animals by surface
transport (trek, rail, boat) to neighboring countries is the most remunerative
form of export from a national economic point of view, profitable meat export
opportunities should not be neglected. It would, however, be ill-advised to
deliberately increase the share of meat exports at the cost of reduced live
exports (e.g. by means of export license distribution favoring meat over live
export development). The Sudan has a strong competitive advantage over other
livestock suppliers on account of its geographical closeness to the Saudi
Arabian market and the established preferences for Sudanese sheep. The same
does not apply to meat exports. While certain characteristics of Sudanese
animals are recognized and appreciated by the meat import trade, the majority
of cold meat buyers in Saudi Arabia and other importing countries are more
geared to price than traditional taste preferences; consequently the Sudan
can expect to maintain only a minor share of the meat market, as supplies
can be flown in from throughout the world at competitive prices. Also, in
absolute terms the market for hot meat (which depends on import of live
animals) is several times larger than that for cold meat, and it would seem
only prudent to concentrate efforts on this mode. The table below illustrates
potential gains in the export volume of Sudanese livestock and meat to Saudi
Arabia.



ANNEX 7
Page 24
Estimated and Projected Official Meat Imports
into Saudi Arabia and Sudan's Potential Share
('000 tons)
Imports Sudan's Imports Sudan's  Total  Imports Sudan's Imports Sudan's  Total
of    Share    of      Share  Mutton    of    Share    of        Share    Beef
Sheep    (      Mutton     M    Imports  Cattle   (%2    Beef        (X    Imports
(18 kg                                    (180 kg
carcass                                   carcass
equiv.)                                   equiv.)
1974    14.5    30      0.6       10      15        5.5    30       0.5       0.2     6
1977    21.5    23      4         20      25.5      8      25       3        20      11
1980    27       27     7         22      34       11      30       5        20      16
1983    32       32    10         24      42       13.5    33       7        20      20.5
Potential Development of Sudanese Official Cattle
and Sheep Exports to Saudi Arabia
('000 head)
% of                                  % of
Total                                 Total
Sheep (20-22 kg carcass)  Sheep  Cattle (220-240 kg carcass) Cattle
Live   Carcass  Total   Exports    Live  Carcass  Total         Exports
1974 actual       200       3       203                  8      0.05    8.05
1977 estimate    185       40       200                 10      1.2    11.2
1980 projected   330       75       370                 16      5      21
1983 projected   485      115       600       68        21      7      28          66
29.       Sudan's present comparative advantage of live over meat exports to
Saudi Arabia is presently hampered by an arbitrary export quota policy and by
the heavy strain put on live export by an inadequate and unreliable rail
transport. It is essential therefore that these rail transport facilities be
improved. Air transport is thus far an unacceptable alternative for large-
scale shipments. The sporadic Khartoum-Jeddah air shipment of sheep is more
than twice as expensive as in carcass form ($18 + per sheep at present) and
four times the cost of live shipment by surface. Air transport although much
more costly, does however allow exporters to take advantage of sudden price
booms caused by temporary shortages and/or quality premiums. Such spot
markets are not uncommon with present infrastructural constraints on surface
shipments.
30.       Price Changes.  If exports were liberalized, mutton prices in the
Khartoum market would rise from the present 75 pt/kg towards the present net
export price of 95 pt/kg. This initial price rise would be counteracted by
an increase in supply, with the resulting price competition forcing a decline



ANNEX 7
Page 25
in prices towards 85 pt/kg. It is therefore likely that the local market
price would eventually reach an equilibrium in the range 80-90 pt/kg. Beef
prices are related less to the volume of Sudanese exports than to world
market prices. Presently, parity between (net) export and domestic prices
has been reached. However, the world market price for beef is in the process
of recovery from the recent price slump, and a rise by up to 20% over the
coming two years is forecast. Domestic market prices may show a tendency to
rise from the present average of 50 pt/kg toward 60 pt/kg; they would most
likely remain about 55 pt/kg due to the limited absorbative capacity of the
Saudi Arabian market for Sudanese beef and the higher cost of supplying other
markets.
31.       The Interaction of Exports and Domestic Supply.  Exports are the
driving force which both provide the needed incentive to domestic production
and also exert a decisive influence on domestic consumption demand. Since
the external market demand favors sheep production, and as the Sudanese
livestock industry historically has emphasized cattle production, external
market forces encourage higher sheep production and exports at the expense
of local mutton consumption; the external pull on cattle production would be
much less pronounced. This situation is understandably a cause of concern
to Sudanese planners who place a high importance on assuring adequate sup-
plies of mutton for local consumers. However, expanded exports of sheep
offer substantial compensating benefits to the Sudanese economy. The present
export price ratio is 2:1 in favor of mutton; although this ratio may have
been exaggerated somewhat by lower beef prices caused by a temporary beef
surplus in the EEC countries, it is likely to be sustained at a level of 1.5 -
2.0:1 in the future because of the quality preference enjoyed by Sudanese
sheep in the Saudi Arabian market. Since the resource input in sheep produc-
tion is less than for beef, present and future export earnings per kilo of
mutton would be more than double those of a kilo of beef. Liberalization
of exports would therefore favor meat surplus producing provinces and the
majority of the rural population (especially the pastoralists), while exert-
ing pressure on the meat consumption budget of the urban household. However
unattractive this outcome may appear to the planner, it should be realized
that there are inbuilt safeguards which would mitigate the adverse effect
on the low-income households. Beef exports (as they receive no consumer
preference and must compete with supplies from all over the world) can be
expected to expand only gradually, leaving increasingly greater quantities
available for the local market. Furthermore the Jeddah price for Sudanese
sheep and mutton, involving a specific preference for the Sudanese quality,
would to some extent be a function of the amount supplied and would tend to
decline with rising supply. In other words, increasing sheep and muttton
exports to Jeddah will narrow the price differential between the two markets;
any excess over what Sudan can afford to supply or what Jeddah can absorb
will be kept in check by the brake mechanism released automaticaly when price
levels in the two markets (corrected for export costs) eventually achieve
parity. Another safeguard for the low income household would be an increased
availability at moderate prices of edible offals from export slaughter; if
meat exports develop as projected, these supplies could increase by as much



ANNEX 7
Page 26
as 10%. The supply of low value carcass parts and scrap from export of
pistola and selected cuts would also increase. If 20% of beef/cattle exports
are allocated to quality cuts and 33% of the carcass (including 11% bones)
would be distributed in an appropriate market, a further 5% would be added to
Khartoum's beef supplies.
32.       The challenge facing the consumer in the future would therefore not
be a shortage of meat (seasonal shortfalls have been common in the past in any
case), but the need for a change in consumption habits from mutton to beef.
At prevailing prices in Khartoum, the lower income consumer has already been
forced to make this change; his main concern has been more related to the
availability of a supply of meat that he can afford than to the question of
which kind of meat he prefers. The higher and middle income consumer is
already beginning to show an interest in veal and quality beef, and has the
added alternative of poultry meat, which is becoming increasingly available.
33.       Strategy Suggestions.  The most appropriate course of action for
a Government desiring to increase foreign exchange earnings would therefore
appear to be to liberalize exports and allow prices in the local market to
structure themselves according to the export market and consumers' preferences.
At the same time the Government could retain two controls, namely:
(a) no exports would be allowed at prices (corrected for
export costs) lower than the Khartoum market price; and
(b) a controlled price would be established for "meat with
bone" in order to guarantee the availability of meat to
the low income consumer.
The projected increase in livestock availability for export is not going to
materialize if Government does not employ a progressive, export oriented
development strategy. Such a strategy involves the risks normally associated
with success in any commercial enterprise. Government would have to be
prepared to tolerate a temporary increase in consumer prices in constant terms.
It would also have to make a serious effort to provide services and facili-
ties which would enhance the productivity of the national livestock herd and
facilitate the marketing of large numbers of animals. This would involve:
(a) strengthening of disease control measures with particular
emphasis on the control of sheep diseases;
(b) support for animal production research and extension ser-
vices;
(c) organization and expansion of range management services
including non-formal training of pastoralists, demonstra-
tion of grazing control measures, and introduction of
other improved range management procedures;
(d) improvement of stockroute, rail, road and river transport
facilities;



ANNEX 7
Page 27
(e) improvement of the market system and collection and dis-
semination of market information.
Only if these and other supportive measures are carried out will the incentive
provided by the external demand be able to perform its catalytic function
in the development of the livestock industry. In each case, however, the
emphasis should be on the provision of services and facilities and not on
interventions. Only through the free but supervised, activity of the private
sector will it be possible to achieve a successful expansion of the national
livestock industry so that it may reach its full potential in the context of
the national development effort.
G. Proposed Future National Livestock Marketing Policies
34.       On the basis of the detailed analysis set forth above, a suggested
three-stage approach to the imposition of a national livestock marketing
and pricing program 1/ is suggested. This program should be more specifically
formulated and directed by the newly established Livestock and Meat Market-
ing Commission (LMMC), which would have overall responsibility for its im-
plementation.
Stage 1 (1978):
(a) Raise the sheep export quota to 300,000 head (e.g.
220,000 live and 80,000 carcass equivalents).
(b) Lift domestic price controls on mutton.
(c) Establish a mechanism for the continuous monitoring of
the market at Jeddah.
(d) Conduct market surveys in Yemeni and Gulf Markets and
advise exporters accordingly.
(e) Investigate the volume of and reasons for unrecorded
export flows of cattle and sheep.
(f) Ensure exporters that drastic market interventions would
only be contemplated in the case of a national emergency.
(g) Accelerate the stockroute improvement program.
Stage 2 (1979):
(a) Raise the sheep export quota to 350,000 head (e.g.
280,000 live and 120,000 carcass equivalents).
1/   It is assumed that Government will retain the present minimum
price rule for exports (para 23).



ANNEX 7
Page 28
(b) Establish simple, efficient export procedures which
minimize administrative bottlenecks.
(c) Lift domestic price controls on beef with the exception
of an "anchor" price on the stew quality beef mixed
with bone (max. 30% bone).
(d) Start the Project livestock market improvement program.
(e) Establish the Project LMHC/SRC livestock transport pro-
gram by undertaking construction of transport infrastruc-
ture for the block trains.
(f) Negotiate with Red Sea livestock carriers for improvement
in transport service between Port Sudan and Jeddah in
order to minimize costly waiting periods at Port Sudan.
(g) Commence a survey of river transport potential for move-
ment of livestock in cooperation with the River Transport
Corporation (RTC).
(h) If efficient market surveillance at Jeddah is possible
and if LMMC's export market section has become fully
operational, the next step could be to differentiate
export minimum prices and change their status into "rec-
ommended minimum prices", giving LMMC final responsibil-
ity for judging the adequacy of stated contract prices
submitted by exporters.
(i) Study the beef and mutton finishing/fattening enterprises
and the staging of tradestock (particularly in Khartoum,
White Nile, Blue Nile and Gezira provinces) and identify
limitations to further growth of the industry; prepare
a program for further development and expansion of the
industry into other provinces (e.g. in Nile, Upper Nile,
North and South provinces).
Stage 3 (1980):
(a) Establish the Project livestock block train service.
(b) Take stock of livestock stratification achievements by
large investment projects.
(c) Survey export market potential for Sudanese quality
beef cuts and veal in North African and other markets
and advise exporters accordingly.



ANNEX 7
Page 29
(d) If exports are slow in disposing of domestic surpluses
of livestock, consider lowering the net export tax (e.g.
from 15% to 10%).
(e) Lift export quotas on sheep and mutton.
November 10, 1977



ANNEM 7
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Recorded Export of Livestock and Chilled Meat by Main Importing Countries
1970 - 76
2/        Chilled Meat        Animal Equivalent   Annual Exports
Cattle       Sheep       Goats       Camels -        Beef       Mutton          of Meat           in ('000 head)
Year                    (head)        (head)    (head)        (head)          (ton)       (ton)      (head)  (head)        Cattle    Sheep
1970-71
Saudi Arabia                    2,794       130,466        654            3               7.5        -             -         -        -          -
Egypt                          19,357        26,868          -            -               0.1        -             -         _        _          _
Libya                               -         2,250          -        2,195             366.7       18.3
Kuwait                            197              -         -            -               2.8       22.2
Other Near East Countries           -              -                                      0.2               -           -             -          -
Total                      22,348        159,584       654        2,198             377.3        40.5      1,880     1,840       24.2      161.4
1971-72
Saudi Arabia                      748        84,259        200            -               7.0        -             -         -        -          -
Egypt                           9,710        16,450          -            -             166.5        -             -         -        -          -
Libya                               6         1,370          -        1,970             134.2        0.5
other Near East Countries                     6,992          -            -               -          -
Total                       10,457       109,071       200         1,970            307.7         0.5      1,538        23       12.0      109.0
1972-73
Saudi Arabia                    1,590       194,925          -           11              11,7        -             -         -        -          -
Egypt                          21,230              -         -            -          2,971.3         -             -         -        -          -
Libya                               -            640         -          545           2,702.5        -
Other Near East Countries          68         8,000                 -             -             -           -           -             -          -
Total                      22,988        207,160          -          556          5,685.5         -       28,427         -       51.5      207.2
1973-74
Saudi Arabia                    8,190       202,128          -            -               9.8       60.0                -             -          -
Egypt                           7,004        21,724          -            -          3,177.5         -             -         -        -          -
Libya                               -            950         -            -          5,654.8         -             -
Kuwait                              -         2,000          -            -             275.3   2,678.7            -
other Near East Countries          80        14,416          -            -             897.5      122.5           -
Zaire                               -              -         -            -          1,265.6         -             -                  -          -
Total                      15,274        242,682          -            -         11,280.5   2,861.2    56,403  130,054           71.7      372.7
1974-75 3/
Saudi Arabia                   11,207       168,996          -          310              16          -             -         -        -          -
Egypt                               -              -         -            -             696          -             -         -        -          -
Libya                               -              -         -                        1,636        337
Kuwait                            980              -         -            -             134          -
other Near East Countries         140        19,777          -            -              93         29
Zaire                               -              -         -            -           1,693         25
Total                      12,327        188,779          -          310          4,268         391       21,340   17,770        33.7      206.5
1975-76 3/
Saudi Arabia                        -              -   22,715         4,532               -          -             -         -        -          -
1/ Carcass weights used for calculation: Cattle 200 kg; sheep 22 kg.
2/ Camel exports to Egypt not included as majority are unrecorded.
3/ Export ban on cattle and sheep from July 1974 - October 1976



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Surplus of Cattle and Sheep and the Flow of Trade
Estimate for Base Year 1977 ('000 head)
ConsuMed         Consumed         Available
Bahr El    South        North       South        North       White    Remaining                    Gezeira         Other Deficit        for
Ghazal      Darfour    Darfour   Kordofan    Kordofan          Nile    Provinces    Total    and Khartoum            Provinces         Export
Provincial Population
Cattle                                  1.228         2.735        907         937       1.467        1.564        6.530       15.367
Sheep                                      718        1.232      1.410         830       2.470         2.208       7.335       16.272
Provincial Offtake
Cattle  7.55%                               92          205         68          70          110          117         326           987
Sheep  25.0%                               179          308        352         207          617          552       1.853        4.068
Provincial Consumption
Cattle                                      80          149         68           29         110           54         230           720
Sheep                                      179          268        278         173         368           352       1.643        3.223
Provincial Surplus to Own Consumption 
Cattle                                     (11)          56          --          41          --           63          96           267          144               60             63
Sheep                                       --           40         75           75         250          200         205           845          500                5            340
Animals Moved Towards ihartoum-/
of which by rail
Cattle                                  --        1.2           --        0.           --           1.2         1.8             5
Sheep                                   --          8           15          15          50            40          41          169
of which by trekking
Cattle                                  --       54.8           --        40.2           --         61.8        94.7          251
Sheep                                   --       32             60          60         200           160         164          676
Animals Moved Khartoum Port Sudan                                                                                                          8
185
1/ Including correction fur survey timing and annual migration Bahr El Ghazal left out as cattle presently traded south.                                                                  n
2/ Statistics for rail transports (1972/74) indicate that of cattle and sheep marketed only 5% and 25% respectively information collected during appraisal indicated mosiderable
deterioration in railway performance and user confidence.  Consequently mission estimates for 1977 are 2% of cattle and 20% of sheep being railed.
3/ According to rail transport information 1972/74 all animals exported via Port Sudan were transported there by rail.



LIVESTOCKI MARKEOTING PROJECT
Prolectioss of Cattle  and Sheep              ftntse    oon Sin Westeo  Province
and Deneed on Rail Transport
(I 08 Rood)
Basic Year      Y"ar       Yer       Yer       Yea      Year      Yea       Yea         Y-~         Yea        Yea       Yea         Yea       Yea       Year      Yea         Year       Year       Year        Year       Yea
1977          1         2          3         4         1         £         7          8           9          10        11         12         13        14        15         16          17         18         19          20
Esati- t.e
Livetock Ppolotico Z/
Cattle                    8.937         8.927    9.017    9.017    9.287    9.468    9.558    9.648             9.739    10. 012       10.285   10.149    10.51        9.830    9.648    9.603         9.551       9.531      9.551      9.551      9.551
Sheep                     8.937         9.452    9.966   10.499   11.098   11.696   11.973   12.249            12.617    12.986        13.354   14.643    14.920   15.196   15.472   15.749           16.071    16.393    16.716    17.038    17.360
3/
Offtake far Ccn.a_ption
and Sole
Gt     4/                61            669       615       710        799       881,      908       935        934         941       1.234    1.471       1.451    1.425       1.350    1.248       1.241      1.241       1.241      1.241      1.241
Sheep,                     2.215        2,363    2,591    2,939    3,329    3.742    3,831    3.919             4,037       4,155       4.406    5.271       5.520    5.622    5.725    5.827          5.946       6.065      6.184      6.304      6.423
Cettle                       490          514       539        565       593       422       652       684         718        753         790       829        869        912       957    1.004       1.8053      1.853      1.053      1.053      1.053
Sheep                      1.575        1,658     1,746    1,838    1,936    2,039    3,147    2,260             2,380      2,506       2,639    2.779        2,926    3,082    3,245    3.417          3.598      3.789      3.990      4.201      4.424
Surpice rovd towrde
Khertosr
ilettie                      160          151        146       545       196       250       756        231        218        188         444       642         582       513       393       244         188        188         188        188        188
sheep                        640          705        045    1,101    1,393    1,703    1.884         1,659       1,657      1,849       1,767    7.492       2.594    2.540       2.480    2.450        2.348      2.276      2.194       2.103      1.999
Mond. f Transport
Rail
Cattle                           3             3         3        14        23        36        40         45         43         43           97       147        139       128        128       128        128         128        158        128        128
Sheep                          128           141       169       242       334       442        471       497        513        527          583       847        907       989        868       843        821         796        767        736        699
Trekking
Cattle                         157           132       143       131       173       221        216       216        173        142          347       495        443       385        265       116          60         60         60         60          60
Sheep                          512          564        876       059   -1,059    1,261    1,213    1.182           1.144      1.022        1,184    1.645       1.687    1.651       1.620    1.563       1.567      1.480       1.427      1.367      1.300
1/Bahr E1 Ghe...l,Rorth elSooth Darfr red tardefa. red White Nile
Z/Pr-iectiaee as.ed on hard/flack adels and carrlcd out for c-ttlr end sheep anly.
!/Cansoaptian
Projection correted foar (15 Pepulation froti.
(ii) Growth rate of espendbla caneer io-n  and
Intone sleeticity of drrd (ace Ame.r    , Table 15).
Prices are aesund constant thrughast.
4/Babe El iha..al's earplss (11 008 rattle) presently earn Sauth and has been left
5/Ket ieste of cattle n-d s-heep transported by rail based on 1972-74 cranapact statistics
(5% end 25%) with a ddection far deterioration of services cnfiend daring apeel
2% of cattle and 20% at sheep ar  estiasted to be ravd by rail ts flart-r   Per-
fharton   to Pert Sodan 100% transport at erpani sniral  is assured as  o t-itoele
6/Intr.d.ction of scheduled rail transpart in 1081 ca,plrd with the denod of fattening
enterprises is asesed to increase dasand far transport to 20% ad cartla and 30%.
nof sheep by 1983 and is 20% and 35% easpectivaly by 1990.
2/In spits at stabilised proddotLon and serplus (due to,pcadsotio regolotion) danad
far trarapant in eapecad in stahiliss at 128.00 iaaily cavaring the sepply at



1IVESTOCK MA3YETIING P0RTECT
Pro,ection of orovincial tooclie of Cattlo nod &heep
Deetined for Coneototio, ratzenio/Prcceeeiog for Epoot
and Line O0po,r and the Heecltica Decd for Rail Tran-port
0080~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 00000AD
1977        1           2          3           4          5           6          7           8          9           13          11          12          13          14           105          16                 17               18             19              X
NatIonl Cattle aod Sheep Onoolation 
Cattl                                   15,367    15,828      16,302     36,791      17,295      17,1841    18,349      08,715      19,090      19,472     19,861       20,858     20,250      20,166      20,665       20,871        2pi,co          01,091           20,5021          21,719          21,936
Oheep                                  16,272    175199      18,179     09,016      20,3i1     21,469      22,6392     3,372       24,073      4796 c9 54             26,316      26,569     26 8342      27.103       27,3874      27,6647          27.924           28,203          28.4785         28,769
Offtkte for ConecoAPtion and 001 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 529            2 554            2,580           2,6o6           2 632
cattle                                     987     l.i0        1,141      1,175       1,210       1,200      1,284       1,497       1,527       1.554      1,588        1,620      2,430       2,455       2,479        2,504         9,123            9,214            9,306           9,400           9.493
0200p                                   4,,68     4,799       4J544      4,8o4 0      ,c77      5,367       5,673      7,011        7,221      7,438       7,662       7,891       8,767       8,855       8,943        9,033
a.ttic                                    720        756         793        833         8721       918         3621     1,002        1,063      1, 162      0,172       1,230       1.292      1,356
Sheep                                   3,223     3,384       3,753      3,730       3,917      4,113       4,9319      4,535       4,761       4 ,9399    5249         5 512      5 768       6,077
o -ned in central and
Cattle                                     204        216        229         242        257         272        289         306         325         344        365          387         410        435
2hp                                       505       535         567        6Co         637        675         716         759         804        853         904          958      1,016       I'n
Acailablo for Fattening,
Proe.et.no and Lt    E port
CatIn                                       63        i35        103         102         79          20         31         170         139         218         50            3        708         6621        688          713           738              763              8219            815             8211
aseh                                      3220       380        4242        472        595         599        638       1,717      1i,66        1,566      1,709        1,421      1,963       1,701       1,789        1,879,        1,939            2,706            2,152           2,246           2,3901
Ftte.nd  Ad Pr-oeeed
Cattl-        --53                                    123        i05          841        62           1          10        155         113          22         25            3         702        6214        658          683           70A              733              819             785             801
cheep                                     05         1o24o      130         021         2m02       17         113         717         656         586        59           42,        4763        201         289          379           469              56o              652             7466            839
saported Lice Vtt Port 4hodio
(leDed_for HEil foaeort)
Cattle                                     1lo         1          i21         16         17          19         0           021   24     6          s6         26            -         06          30           30          30            30               38               30              30              38
Sheep                                     185       24o         294         336        383         4321       42165     0,02        1,0c        c,0        D0.00        0,000      0,502       1,502       1,      ,500 1       ,350                   1,508            1,500           1,500           1,502
Foplatio    oth H te            1977   1 83           -  
cattle                                                                         lI 2n D e to poodo ,tio   i reE c  n ihoited .atocal for Agricut-re  -escoces.
cheY            s657%                             3%               1%
/  Offtan  ontas (Whol0  Cootr')  1977-1983                       19B3-1988                     1989 -
Cattlo            73%                           89%                       128
cshep          20 5                           308                        33 %
3/ Ase-d to gro-e by 54  oa lly, throoth 19903
4      eanira (W0  nedani), Kh-to, Norther.  Nile  od Hed Sea Prociooe.  Co eMFpti=n being  -inly uobn= 1,0003208 to itonee- by 6%  -nu,l tb hrogh 1990.
/ Cono-pti.o  of beef -ad -ottoo is a.e,ed to otAbilin  bh  1994. Wbe p800t01  0810 orffr acobapoc nior- atico for the  -Iobn coPlatbob avO the coral popolation Yi01 haos cohigod a l1ogo pact of their
co-t-Vptih  to goat neat, further tho tneo elasticity of dead nill decline Coca pree-=t high  oe.-I.






ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
An Estimate of Inter-Provincial Market Flows and
National Export Potential for Cattle and Sheep
1.        Until recently, no national statistics have been available on
the livestock industry in the Sudan. Most of the prior investigations and
estimates of livestock population, trade flows etc. were extrapolations
based on surveys carried out in a limited geographical area, or limited
studies undertaken in the context of a specific development project. Conse-
quently, Government figures and other published data have been subject to a
wide degree of error, and have formed a somewhat unreliable basis (albeit
the best available) for the formulation of national livestock marketing
and price policies. Recognizing the importance of this problem, Government
engaged Resource Management and Research Ltd., Nairobi, to carry out a pilot
aerial census of the Sudan's livestock resources. This census was completed
in early 1977, and the results are now available for study.
2.        The census was used as the basis for a comprehensive estimate of
inter-provincial market flows and national export potential (see Table 1).
Without some knowledge of these key indicators, it will be impossible for
Government to undertake the difficult task of developing national marketing
policies. While the estimates provided herein may be refined over time, they
represent the first systematic attempt to intergrate the available data in a
way which allows them to be used for long term planning purposes.
Methodology for Table 1
3.        The Table was developed in five stages:
I.   Calculation of Meat Offtake per km2 for Each Province
(a) Biomass density figures for cattle and sheep are enumerated
and the share of these animals in the meat offtake from the
total herbivore biomass per km2 is compared by province.
The biomass liveweight assessments applied in the herbivore
biomass calculations are:



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 2
Kilos
Cattle                       180
Sheep/Goats 1/                18
Camels 2/                    304
Donkeys                      150
Horses/Mules                 200
Wildlife                     specified weights
(b)  Using these figures, meat offtake per km2 is calculated as
follows:
Biomass x the assumed offtake rate 3/ x 1.5 (offtake
liveweights are assumed to be 50% above the average
biomass liveweights of the Census) x 0.66 to reflect
yield of "meat" (carcass and edible offals) for human
consumption.
The meat offtake rate from total biomass is then calculated
as a weighted compound rate according to the contribution of
animal species making up the biomass. The total meat offtake
figure per km2 is then increased by 15% for Khartoum and White
Nile provinces and by 10% for Gezira province. These increases
help balance the uniform weight assessment used in the Census,
and reflect the influence of grazing conditions and modern
farming operations on offtake rate and slaughter weight; in
White Nile province they also reflect the very dominant posi-
tion of sheep in the sheep/goat population.
1/   Goats are raised predominantly as a source of meat and milk for
rural households (73% of rural and semi-rural households own goats
according to the census ground survey, as compared to 47% owning
sheep and cattle).
2/   Camels are of commercial importance mainly in the northern pro-
vinces and are channelled through a limited number of markets.
3/   Offtake rates employed are:  7.5% for cattle (5% for Jonglei and
E. Equatoria), 25% for sheep/goats, 4% for camels, donkeys, etc.
and 2% for wildlife. The rate for camels reflects assumed con-
sumption and exclude offtake for transport and export slaughter
(total camel offtake might be 6.5 or higher).



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 3
II. Calculation of the Meat Surplus/Deficit per Province 1/
(a)  Meat offtake is divided by the human population
per km2, yielding an average annual meat supply per
person. From this, per capita consumption (based
on the findings of the 1967/68 Household Sample
Survey 2/ is subtracted.
1/   Excluding consumption in the major urban areas shown in Table 2.
2/   The Household Sample Survey did not include the southern provinces
and Upper Nile Province (24 percent of total population in the Cen-
sus), nor did it include the nomadic population (10-40 percent of
rural population) in northern Sudan. The excluded populations are
assumed to have a relatively lower per capita meat consumption than
those included in the Survey. The (incomplete) natonal average meat
consumption figure of the Survey of 17.5 kilograms/per capita can
be compared with consumption figure assumed herein (16.2 kilograms).
The following adjustments were applied in order to make the figure
of the household survey comparable to the one in Table 1.
Kilograms
Average meat consumption per capita from
Survey (Rural settled and urban population
in five northern provinces):                         17.5
Including southern and nomadic populations
i.e., approximately 36 percent of the national
population with an assumed average per capita
consumption of 13 kilograms, the national
average is reduced to:                               15.8
Minus Meat from poultry, other birds, rabbits
and low game (not included in the Census)
estimated at:                                         1.0
Gives a national average of:                           14.8
This estimate of 14.8 kg/head pertains to 1967/68. The increase
of 1.4 kg/head to the current estimate of 16.2 kg/head can be
attributed to an income elasticity of demand for meat of 0.5,
assuming a 2.3 percent average growth rate for real expendable
per capita consumer income, and a 2.5 percent population growth
rate over this particular period.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 4
III. Calculation of Meat Consumption in the Larger Towns not
Included in the Census
(a) Meat consumption of the larger towns listed in Table 2
was estimated at twice the level of consumption in rural
areas.
(b) Urban consumption was then subtracted from the provincial
surplus (added to the deficit) to arrive at a net surplus/
deficit figure for each province.
IV. Correction for Trade Flows and Seasonal Migration
(a) Surplus/deficit estimates are then corrected to taken into
account trade flows and seasonal migrations.
V.   Conversion of Provincial Surplus/Deficit Estimates into Numbers of
Animals Exported/Imported by Each Province
(a) Assuming that the inter-provincial livestock trade is
comprised almost entirely of cattle and sheep, the ratio
of beef to mutton consumption is estimated using the
Household Sample Survey (taking into consideration the
fact that mutton consumption is relatively lower in the
southern provinces).
(b) Conversion of surplus/deficit estimates into numbers of
head exported/imported using liveweights 1/ of:
cattle - 330 kg (Khartoum and White Nile 360 kg);
sheep - 36 kg (Khartoum, White Nile and
N. Kordofan 40 kg).
4.        The basic parameters used in the above calculations are summarized
below:
1/   The liveweights used in this calculation are higher than those
used in the calculation of meat offtake per km2 as the animals
selected for export are normally of better than average quality
(weight, condition and age).



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 5
Basic Parameters
Census    Offtake    Offtake    Meat Offtake  Provincial        Provincial
Live-      Rate       Live-      per            Export Trade,  Export Trade,
weights               weights 1/ Animal 2/      Liveweights 3/ Meat Offtake 3/
(kR,)    (%           (kRz)      (kp,)             (kg,)            (kg)
Cattle       180        7.5         270        180             330 (360)      220 (240)
(5.0) 4/
Sheep  )      18       25    )       27         20              36 ( 40)       40 (26.6)
Goats  )                     )                  15
Camels       304        4           452        304
Donkey        150                   225        150
Mule/Horse   200                    300        200
Wildlife  ) by          2
)  species              (+50%)      (66%)
I/   Higher weights and rates assumed for Khartoum, White Nile and
Gezira provinces, resulting in a 5% (Khartoum, White Nile) and
10% increase (Gezira) in meat offtake/km2 (see (I), above), respectively.
2/   Includes edible offals.
3/   Figures in brackets relate to Khartoum, White Nile and North
Kardofan provinces.
4/   Jonglei and E. Equatoria.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 6
B. General Discussion
Offtake Rates
5.        The offtake rates used in the above analysis may appear to be
slightly high when compared to existing (but widely diverging) estimates.
The rates employed herein (7.5% for cattle and 25% for sheep) are, however,
thought to be the most realistic assumptions under present conditions. They
diverge somewhat from the offtake rates used in Government's draft Six Year
Plan (6.9% for cattle, and 34% for sheep), which are not believed to be
realistic. Government appears to have underestimated the number of cattle
available for consumption and to over-estimate the potential of the national
sheep flock. While it is believed that the suggested offtake rate of 25%
for sheep may even so be somewhat high, this has been balanced by the
conservative estimate of average offtake weight of 27 kg; this weight, while
appropriate for the southern provinces, appears to underestimate offtake
weights in the northern provinces.
Per Capita Meat Consumption
6.        Per capita meat consumption from herbivore source in Table 1 shows
a moderate increase from 1967/68 to 1976; it is estimated that the percentage
of mutton consumption showed only a slight increase relative to beef over this
period. Census data (1976) indicate that 20% of all meat consumed was mutton,
while the Household Sample Survey (1967/68) estimated mutton consumption at
19.5% of the total. The assumption that beef and mutton consumption have
increased at the same rate can be challenged on two counts:
(a) the relative increase in the number of sheep in the over-
all livestock population; and
(b) the higher share of mutton consumed by urban (as opposed to
rural) consumers and by higher income households - this led
to the assumption of a higher income elasticity of demand for
mutton as compared to beef and other meats (except poultry).
Both arguments, however, are not entirely convincing, since observations on
a static income structure basis may not be applicable to a dynamic situation
(i.e., with all incomes moving up as a result of the development process and
consumption preferences within social strata being relatively inelastic 1/).
Albeit a change may be induced by new values and growing desires and choices.
Furthermore, the effect of price and cross-price elasticities on income elasti-
cities would have to be considered. Also, with regard to the first argument,
1/   Interestingly, there is no typical difference in meat consumption patterns
between urban and rural population strata within equal income brackets.
The higher mutton consumption in urban areas is simply a function of
relative concentration of the population in medium and higher income
groups.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 7
Government livestock population estimates may have been in need of correction
for many years past; consequently the relative increase of the sheep popula-
tion might have been a very gradual process, thus allowing for only a slight
change in sheep numbers over the time period under discussion.
Testing Some Parameters
7.        If the traditional assumptions of high income elasticities of demand
for meat in Africa, and of a strong dominance of elasticities for mutton over
beef in the Sudan in particular, are to be maintained, certain data and para-
meters used in the analysis developed in Table 1 would need to be questioned.
This can be done by means of the following check list of potential adjustments
which would lead to high demand elasticities for meat and/or for mutton in
particular.
Not Feasible - X
To be Considered   0
Potential AdJustment
i.   Lower the growth rate (below 2.3%) of
expendable consumer income during the
1967-1975 period.                                    X
ii.   Discount the recorded meat consumption
in the household survey, assuming
over-statements.                                     X
iii.   Reduce estimates for 1967/68 per capita
consumption in southern provinces and nomadic
sections in northern provinces.                      X
iv.   Increase offtake rates 1975/76
(a)  for cattle                                               0
(b)  for sheep/goats.                                X
v.   Increase slaughter weights
(a)  for cattle                                      X
(b)  for sheep/goats.                                         0
vi.   Reduce exportable surplus.                           X
vii.   Suspect under-counting of sheep in aerial
survey.                                                       0
viii.   Suspect over-assessment of human population
in certain areas (were all temporarily unused
dwellings, identified as such? etc.).                         0



ANNEX 7
Apendix I
Page 8
Certain of these should be given some consideration:
(a)  Re iv & v:  Increases in the offtake rate for cattle
and the slaughter weight for sheep/goats would probably
have a compensatory effect and thereby leave the beef/mutton
ratio unchanged (increases of up to 10% on either side might
be considered). Such increases, however, must be discouraged
on the grounds that the "meat offtake" calculations of the
Table incorporate full utilization of slaughter "offals",
including fat, intestines, head and feet. Although all these
"loffals" or "5th quarter" parts are generally consumed in
Africa, the protein value of some of these parts is low and
waste occurs in times of temporary oversupply.
(b) Re vii & viii: It must be assumed that the strong tendency
of sheep to form dense mobs which could lead to under-counting
has been allowed for in the processing of the survey material.
Likewise, the widespread prevalence of farmsteads and shelters
for only seasonal use during planting and harvesting time,
especially in semi-nomadic environments, appear to have received
due recognition.
The other suggested adjustments can be dismissed more readily:
(a) Re i: The employed growth rate of 2.3% is already below the
range of estimates published in Government and international
reports (2.5% - 3.0%).
(b) Re ii: Although a 16 kg per capita meat consumption (supple-
mented by poultry, fish, etc. per capita meat consumption would
be approximately 18 kg), combined with the high cereal component
in staple food consumption and the high milk consumption, indi-
cates a satisfactory protein supply (with a safety margin of
50% above recommended minimum requirements), the Sudan's posi-
tion is not exceptional. In comparison with other African
livestock producing countries, the Sudan would compare favorably
with Nigeria or Mali, be equal to Chad, and be below meat
consumption levels in Senegal and Mauritania 1/.
(c) Re iii: In the southern areas meat consumption cannot be
assumed to be much lower than estimated (25% below that of
settled northern population) in view of the cattle surplus
situation in the area, the lack of export market connections,
1/   When comparing "meat" consumption figures, it needs to be checked
whether non-carcass parts (slaughter "offals") are included; e.g., to
make the Mali figure of 11 kg "meat, bone in" comparable to Sudan
(16 kg "meat"), approx. 3.5 kg need to be added, giving a total figure
of 14.5 kg.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 9
and the relatively lower milk supplies as compared to the
north (where nearly half the animal protein supply is derived
from milk). For both population sections not included in the
Household Survey mutton consumption is estimated at 6% of
total meat as compared to the country average of 20%. Al-
though this percentage might be somewhat lower in the south,
the higher share in nomad consumption would compensate for this.
(d) Re vi: The export surplus shown in the Table is in
line with average annual live exports over the past decade
when unrecorded exports are included. When official exports
via Khartoum were suddenly increased (sheep up to the totally
available surplus, and cattle in excess of this), a drastic
price reaction signalized the slowness of the adaptation
process in the marketing system, and resulted in the imposi-
tion of an export ban. In taking this drastic action, how-
ever, Government underestimated the inherent growth potential
of the national livestock herd (especially sheep).
Conclusions
8.        Before summarizing the conclusions which can be drawn from an
anslysis of the Table, it should be noted that the Table is an attempt to
develop a complex evaluation of the overall livestock supply and demand situa-
tion in 1976. Based as it is on available data (the 1967/68 Household Sample
Survey and the 1975/76 Livestock pilot census), uncorrected shortcomings as
far as they may exist, have necessarily been included. Efforts to eliminate
imbalances caused by livestock movements (stocks in trade or in seasonal
migration) were complicated by the fact that survey periods had moved through
different seasons from province to province and might therefore have fallen
short of reaching their goal. The sole concentration on sheep and cattle
as inter-provincial trading stock is a simplification which might not be
applicable for certain provinces. The assumption that a province with a
net import requirement or export surplus will only show imports or only
exports and only in the livestock species in which the net shortage or
surplus exists may be too simplistic. In reality, there will be many situa-
tioins of mixed import and export activities in a province, e.g., a surplus
arising in one part of a province might flow out to an attractive market in
a neighboring province, rather than to a deficit area in the province; the
first province might in turn receive supplies from an adjacent surplus area
in a third province. Finally, assumptions of offtake rates, liveweights
and meat consumption by certain population groups may need further adjustment
and differentiation.
9.        In spite of its shortcomings, the model nevertheless represents
the only presently available comprehensive and analytical effort to study the
factors influencing livestock supply and demand in the Sudan. The analysis,
moreover, can be used to derive several generalized observations of the pre-
sent situation.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 10
i.   There is a moderate national export surplus of close
to 6% of total meat production.
ii.   The surplus situation is well balanced between cattle and
sheep; however, for geographical and sociological reasons
a large part of the surplus cattle are presently unavail-
able for official export (i.e. those from Southern, Upper
Nile and Jonglei provinces).
iii.   A substantial cattle surplus potential exists in
the southeast, which should be integrated in a
national marketing system.
iv.   The geographic concentration of provincial meat
deficits and surplus presents itself in the
following order:
The Geographic Distribution of Meat Deficits and Surpluses Among Provinces
Deficits            %           Surpluses              %
Khartoum           54           East (White Nile)
(Blue Nile )   50
Gezira             25                 (Upper Nile)
Northeastern                    West (Kordofan  )   40
Provinces i4cl.                       (Darfur    )
Kassala            18
South                10
% of Total Provincial            % of Total Provincial
Deficits           97                 Surpluses      100
v.   The geographic concentration of provincial cattle
and sheep import requirements is as follows:
The Geographic Distribution of Cattle and Sheep Deficits Among Provinces
Province                    Cattle %                 Sheep %
Khartoum                      42                      88
Gezeira                       28                      11
Northeastern Provinces
incl. Kassala               27                      -
% of Total Provincial Deficits    97                       99



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 11
vi.   The geographic concentrtion of cattle and sheep export surpluses
are:
The Geographic Distribution of Cattle and Sheep Surpluses Among Provinces
Province                    Cattle %                 Sheep %
White Nile and Upper Nile    46                       46
Kordofan (N+S)                15                      38
Darfur (N+S)                  21                      12
Southern Sudan                16
% of Total Provincial Surpluses   98                       96
vii.   The marked effect of the expansion of cultivation of ground-
nuts and sesame and rapid human population increases in the
west are reflected in this region's reduced livestock export
potential.
viii.   A heavy livestock concentration in the central and southern
Nile valley which is being used as a breeding, fattening and
staging reservoir can be identified.
ix.   The growing importance of the sheep industry is evident, and
its commercialized sector plays an important role in supplying
the Khartoum and the (Saudi Arabian) export market.
The Share of Sheep in Consumption and Trade
Total (herbivore) meat consumption                    20%
Total (herbivore) meat availability                   21.5%
Meat equiv. in total inter-provincial
livestock trade                                       25%
Meat equiv. importation from other provinces
in the total herbivore meat supplies of the
Three Towns                                           35%
Meat equiv. in total livestock and meat export
availability                                          40%
Meat equiv. in total livestock and meat export
availability (south excluded)                        60%
November 10, 1977






1/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17
cootlepopoitiro  1l.re.e   000)                   14           44          0             643              57          504         900     1,564       1,408        1.405            700.2                           701          1.228          937          1,467            907            2.033          15.367              -2
Oeleelehrve Oat. cetlearee               ~~~-2771       -          -73%            -                7                     1345        -          +401         -             +171            -               -431             -          +125-                           33 
the,-P9ltc    Ite.  1006                                3129          272         024%        1,590              270       1.016       1,070      2,208       1,047         175            925              1.7            333            718        2.470            83            1,1             1e232          16,222              6
Below/shove tse. ecrieccat              ~~~~-29        -           55                             191%         -          1534                                -340                         -               .115            -             .65                           25 
etitel poralealov (recta.) 70001       18n           426         204          1.774             I's        1,057      1,24         63          58            4             704                             84           2.047       2,406            .7            1.8M1           2.734           20.492
Orb.,payeeetila(..evy 193) 2/ (~6)            14            89         13             70               6           145         88        10           40ia0                                     20                 381                      192              9              0               6        ~      %
5,6.1 poetlaiii. ('064)          760            515~~~~~l  307          1,977           1268          ,0          ,5         96          158          755            822            403               872         2,132        2,39           1273209                         ,8003.09a
Reo/ee.b-  all. ceOete-255                                           -         -205           -10%            -15           -           -          -         +105          -             4905            -                I10%5          .            705                         +1001
iree uiileed  s Liveeatit  Oct.34  (in  021  364           126         26             811                           4          7          40        14            18119                         79                71           1209         242:           138             2018                          2,494
Circle Acoelty (bead/hf)                ~~~~~0.01      0.31      016              5.4             27         0.          1.          90        1.           020              .             -91.                                         3.            10.             0.8182.1
Sheep icoelly (62.0/04 1                ~~~~~0.6       2.2         1.3           1.               30         5            4.         50          60          i               .              .22             13.0           26          16.             6.2            6.4              7.384
Cetc  .d Ohec Ottftab  fra  -it t  _3               005           505          35%            605            515           70%         03%       905         005          805           805             25                00            005          60            901             l6x             835              745
Herbivre Dieee Oeei31jCteoei  o/042            136           335        200          2,760           1,11         8,200      2,710      9,040       3,200        3,810          2,790          2,320             2.850         3.310        z,.1so        2.150             970           3.570           1.9m
eetleat  66Offiche                                        75           101          101            85              125         itS         10%        lIt          65         4.55            95             21                75            65           85             95             95               85
eerootfecheieba/h7                        ~~           ~~~         ~~     ~~9 34  20  223         142         990         07       1,041        248          171            139             47               200           200          183            89               7              304             157
tn  repselaioo d.city(per__e.2)                 6.9           3.4         i.1           14.0            18.0        70.0        16.0       71.0        4.3          6.3            604.9                           12.0          16.0         16.6            8.1            6.2    .       18.0             18.
Atiab .  ffth  (Ipr sits                                    0          18             1               14          12          27         3           35          27             73             10                17            12           18             63              4              08               1
We eI_e e etvof eat(la)                             13i06                                   1                8           1           14        17 14       114                                       03                 1             10          1232.                                          12.5            14.3
eep.*  ocrl deead ('000 te)                      04           -.           05            --15                         0.          1.        074        27            6945                         -.234.7                                      i01.83.04509.
00cr  ae lsedafe  tend  ('60ia34                       0.4         02             .            6.5            32.0          4.          a.         4.6        1.2          0.5            3.1            25.8.0                                       5.2.           2.             2.7             2.6.            78.3
Peaveortial eeptrllleq.tri (~000 too)-                _5.4       .4.4            6.5           133.5        .14.2        4i.3       23.        19.           94             3.4           41.7               2.6           0.           7.0          11.              0.3            12.4            28.9
Otvci  fe  .e...a.1 erah/rdefo.                 -0.5          3.35        4.0           .3.3           -33.5        -1.5.       -  .5       20 .5      19.30         4.6            1.0 1/        -1.7               2.6           6.2          9.6          1.1813322.
66681.                                 .     ~     ~~~         ~~~            ~~~            ~~ ~~ 16  L8  17  04,! 60  -         -           .                           .                                                                                  -                                    204
Sheep                    .             .           .              -            ~~~~~~        ~~~         ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~       ~~                             ~~~~~~~~4207  00  .    ..    ..                                                                   8
Catlie            .             .           .              .               .            -          ~    ~ ~~~           ~~~          ~~~~                   ~       ~        ~        ~~~~         ~~~~ ~       ~      ~     ~     ~     ~~          ~ ~~~7 '63  65  36  3  0~.4  10.0  -  41  .267
Sheer           -                                      15               .            .           -       2~~ ~ ~~~~                ~      ~      ~~~~                     ~        ~      ~      ~     ~ ~~~~~~                                                    ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  21  .I  -    -  150Is40  843/
I/Ce...Lf-eto-  Pilotl oet   1976.   Oeof  -avopertee  (6I.Nile (reb./eee.1. taeia(t...                          id06(0e/0.)   orov Sp.)                     er  (et)   lte atle (o.et.1tOtt  eW. (8.6)
9. cerfoCa     ldf0.72cc.1.
27  rhares.Ieioe  oi  ovredbytee...o  1coite  Cr-  1973eoay
3/ Ic-e  oce  =eecdoftr  rate   No catel  ca  ebe.  poace aoele.   cd a-oi d-eit  a . e.p.eeecd -                                f ... ace  offlae fro  lo.1  hrh1 o hl, a-cec   - ie-ttctd by tie piloleeee
4/ Obs rac.~ior  etaer.ed-  doohi ihe  of ihe  -0.1 ot              lhttri. ab.-I.Ic   t.oe  bed0  boe6%                     -3tc  f-iadro).
bya&edb   ,06lcIi)cd  000  cep)6othorttcO   aaepoeottlge  6dcel  rrle,c  tl   rvlt  e  oathe  0%toaeei0d                                                         ti6p7.ait   tplic   heewifegac.r0






ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Table 2
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Population of Townships
Not Included in Aerial Photographic Survey
(1973 Population Figures updated for 1975/76 by adding 15%)
('000)
Red Sea                  South Kordofan      South Darfur
Port Sudan       153    Kadugli        18    Ed Da'ein   18
Rashad         4    Nyala        60
Bahr El Ghazal          Muplad          7    Zulinger    14
Babanusa      12                 92
Aweil             18    Dilling        19                106
Wau               53    Talodi          7
71    El Fula        5    North Darfur       El Buheyrat
85    El Aboussiya   5
Deloini)            El Fasher   52    Rumbek   18
E. Equatoria            Kogoli          5    Geneina      35    Tonj      9
82    Kutum        5              27
Juba              57                   94    Mellit(Est.) 3              31
Torit             15                                      95             ==
Kapocta            5    North Kordofan                   109
Yei               12                                     ---
89    El Obeid      90    Khartoum
103    En Nahud      26
Umm Ruwaba    20    Khartoum Town   334
W. Equatoria             Bara           9    Khartoum North  151
Er Rahad      15    Omdurman         299
Yambia             7    Abu Zubad       7                     784
Maridi             9                  167                     900
16                 192                     -
20                 ---   Kassala
--    Gezeira
Upper Nile                                   Kassala          100
Wad Medani   107    Gedarif           67
Malakal           35    El Hosaheisa  19    Ghasm El Girba    9
126                    176
Jonglei           40                  145                     203
=--    Nile            -=:Northern
Bar (estimate)    15    Blue Nile
-                         jAtbara      66     Wadi Halfa 6
White Nile              Ed Damazin    12    Berber        11     Dongola    6
Sennar        29                 77               12
Kosti             66    Es Suki        16                 89                14
El Jebelein              Singa         19                 -_                -
(estimate)      20                   76
Ed Duiem          27                   88
1130
130






SUDAN                                  ANNEX 8
Table 1
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Sheep
(£ESd per 100 Sheep)
Babanusa to            El Obeid to
Khartoum               Khartoum
Costs of Railing over Trekking:
Railway Fare                                      165                     115
Feed and Water                                     30                      20
193                     135
Savings of Railing over Trekking:
Weight Loss 1/                                    317                     317
Labor                                              43                      29
Working Capital Interest                           32                      22
Watering Fees                                      28                      16
420                     384
Nlet Average 1/ Financial Benefits                       225                      249
Cost Benefit Ratio 2/                                   0.46                    0.35
1/ Weight losses are seasonal and what is presented here is the annual
average. During the rainy season net financial benefits would be
£Sd 72 and £Sd 96 respectively from Babanusa and El Obeid.
2/ Total Costs divided by Total Savings.
September 14, 1977



ANNEX 8
SUDAN                           Table 2
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Cattle
(ESd. per 100 Cattle)
Babanusa                El Obeid
to Khartoum             to Khartoum
Costs of Railing over Trekking:
Railway Fare                             1,317                      923
Feed and Water                              90                       60
1,407                     983
Savings of Railing over Trekking:
Weight Loss  1/                          2,051                    2,051
Labor                                      105                       75
Working Capital Interest                   109                       78
Watering Fees                               21                       12
2,286                   2,216
Net Average 1/ Financial Benefits                 879                   1,233
Cost Benefit Ratio 2/                           0.62                     0.44
1/ Weight losses are seasonal and what is presented here is the annual
average. During the rainy season net financial benefits would be
£Sd 39 and £Sd 393 respectively from Babanusa and El Obeid.
2/ Total Costs divided by Total Savings
September 14, 1977



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock and the Economy
1.        The livestock industry is of significant importance to the Sudanese
economy. It is one of the main sources of food and employment for the popu-
lation and it is a modest contributor to foreign earnings. In 1975 it
accounted for about 16% of GDP, and livestock exports contributed from 6%
to 10% of the value of total exports.
Production Zones
2.        The two major zones of livestock production are:
(a) The Savannah Belt. The low rainfall (300 mm to 800 mm) savannah
belt in which the northern livestock areas of Kordofan and Darfur
provinces are located, is a vast stretch of grassland with a wide
range of low canopy tree cover (chiefly Acacia spp.). The Qoz area
of stabilised soft dune sands and the heavy textured clay plains of
the south are recognisable sub-regions within this belt. Over-
stocking in many parts has led to the grazing out of perennial
grasses, resulting in serious wind erosion in the light soils and
reversion to thicket and scrub vegetation, and gully erosion on the
heavier soils. In the areas of heavier rainfall, particularly in
the clay plains of Gedaref and the Nuba mountains, dryland mecha-
nised farming has been extensively developed.
(b) The Southern Rangelands. The southern reaches of the savannah
belt encompass a region of high rainfall (800 mm to 1500 mm) and a
resultant heavier vegetation cover on the prevalent heavy textured
soils. Because of traditional resistance to cattle trading, and
the lack of infrastructural development in the area, the southern
rangelands do not make a significant contribution to the national
livestock industry. However, the higher rainfall gives it potential
for grassland development and for both intensive and extensive com-
mercial livestock production.
Cattle
3.        The indigenous cattle of the country are of a medium sized Zebu
stock with a thoracic hump; they are of two main types:
(a) Baggara. These cattle are typical East African zebu found
mainly in the northern savannah country of Kordofan and
Darfur provinces in the Blue Nile area. The most important



ANNEX 12
Page 2
named breeds are the Kenana and Butana. The Kenana are grey
in color and it is claimed are better milkers than the
predominantly red-skinned, heavier Butana animals.
(b) Nilotic. The cattle of the south are of Sanga breed (long
horn cervico-thoracic humped zebu), smaller framed than
the Baggara cattle with large horns. They are the dominant
breed of the main cattle owning peoples of the south, the
Dinga, Nuer and Shilluk, and found mostly in the provinces
of Bahr El Ghazal, Upper Nile and Eastern Equatoria.
4.        The genetic potential of the Baggara cattle is excellent for beef
production and the average slaughter weight of cattle is around 300 kg. Good
mature bulls and steers of 4 to 5 years weighing 550 kg are frequently re-
corded at the slaughterhouse. Well-fed young cattle can reach a 250 kg
breeding weight within two years under simple unsophisticated management
conditions. Kenana cattle have a reported milk production of 900 kg per six
month lactation, and are superior in this respect to other Baggara cattle and
the Nilotic breeds.
5.        The overall herd production parameters reflect the problems of
nomadic management and disease control:
Age at first calving               3-4 years
Calving rate                      50%
Death rates   (a) calves           30%
(b) adults          5%
Sheep
6.        The majority of the national flock is found in the arid and semi-
arid areas of Kordofan, Darfur, Northern and Blue Nile Provinces and, next to
cattle, sheep are the most important form of livestock in the Sudan. The
dominant breed is the long tailed Sudan desert sheep, a hardy animal, well
adapted to cope with the harsh environment and high temperatures. The breed
is characterized by its resistance to disease and by its tolerance to thirst.
A heavy bodied animal may weigh as much as 70 kg, but males average around 45
to 50 kg. The ewes are good milkers and the breed has excellent reproductive
potential.
7.        Breeding is often controlled and the nomadic shepherd aims to get
three crops of lambs every two years. Under more intensive conditions of
management, it is likely that disease and parasite problems could increase,
but with adequate nutrition and veterinary control, the reproduction and
slaughter offtake rates offer good potential for improvement. Animal offtake
is estimated at about 25%.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Goats
8.        Goats are found particularly in the drier areas and are kept pri-
marily for domestic meat and milk production and hair; goat meat although the
main meat consumed in many areas, is less popular than mutton or beef.
Camels
9.        Camels of the one humped Arabian species are important stock in
the semi-arid northern areas. The offtake rate is relatively high and is
estimated at 8%; these animals are moved on the hoof to markets in Egypt and
to rural consumer markets, and a small number are exported through Port
Sudan.
Traditional Livestock Production Systems
10.       It is estimated that about 2.6 million families own livestock.
Probably 60% of cattle production, up to 80% of sheep and goat production
and all camel production originates from transhumant pastoralists; much of
the remainder comes from small mixed settled farmer operations. It has been
generally assumed that producers in the traditional sector, particularly those
following transhumant a existence, are not responsive to prices and other
economic forces. Indications are, however, that the traditional producers in
the Sudan are well aware of the economic importance of their herds, although
they place considerable emphasis on the social factors connected with livestock
ownership. In the rural areas the justification for keeping livestock in
increasing numbers has developed around such social factors as prestige,
tribal traditions and dowry; the man in possession of a large herd is in
better standing with the community than the owner of a few animals. Also,
under the system of communal grazing the nomadic producer will acquire as many
livestock as possible, recognizing that any reduction in his herd size is
likely to be met by increased numbers on the part of someone else. Another
factor influencing herd size is that the owner of many animals has a better
chance of surviving losses through drought than the owner of a small herd.
Finally, cattle are considered a reasonably safe means by which wealth can be
accumulated and stored. As a result of his transhumant way of life the
pastoralist finds it impossible to carry large amounts of cash. Leaving cash
in the hands of a trader or merchant has been tried by some, but not always
with success. Using the few existing banks in the larger towns means deviating
from his migration route and subjecting himself to what he perceives as
humiliating treatment at the hands of officials who do not know him and mock
his illiteracy. Consequently the pastoralist normally will sell livestock
only when necessary, i.e. when cash is required for payment of taxes or for
the purchase of food, veterinary drugs and domestic essentials. This outlook
is, however, slowly changing. The nomadic producer and the sedentary farmer
are both interested in obtaining improved living standards and health services
for their families and education for their children. In order to secure these
goals, they are increasingly learning to view their animals as a source of
wealth rather than as a measure of social prestige; the traditional reluctance



ANNEX 12
Page 4
to sell is in this way being gradually overcome. Moreover, the young gene-
ration of pastoralists have observed the more comfortable life of their
relatives in the towns and are developing a desire for the commodities which
will ease their own lives. With the decreasing influence of traditional
leadership and changes in customary values, the more enterprising youngsters
either leave their relatives in search of education and jobs in the town or
establish themselves as traders of livestock.
11.       In the western provinces, herds of cattle move between northern and
southern locations according to the dictates of the season. With the approach
of the wet season, cattle leave the wetter areas of the south to reach their
summer grazing areas in the north, crossing the railway line during July.
Cattle begin moving southwards again in September, cross the railway line in
October and reach the dry season grazing areas again about December. During
the dry season, nomadic herds are usually in remote areas. Most sales,
therefore, occur in the wet season between July and October. Nomadic sheep
and goat flocks remain during the dry season in areas close to the main
migratory stock routes, i.e. within the 400 mm to 600 mm rainfall belt,
often browsing feed left by cattle. In July, flocks begin moving north to
spend the wet season in areas which receive 150 mm to 250 mm of rainfall,
about 200 km to 300 km to the north and in the general direction of the
markets in the east. Some mixed crop livestock farmers are now settled
but have transhmunt livestock which usually graze in the village croplands
during the early rains when the crops are planted and then during the dry
season after harvest. During the rains, these stock move northwards, and
once the water points have dried up and crop residues have been consumed,
they move southwards. Villages which have permanent water tend to keep their
animals around the village for as long as possible, with consequent over-
grazing and reduced livestock performance due to under-nutrition.
12.       Productivity in the cattle herds is low.  Calving rates of 40% (in
sedentary) to 55% (in pastoral herds) and calf mortality rates of 20% to 30%
reflect the stress which deteriorating conditions on the range have put on
breeding stock. The long distances which cattle have to travel to water, the
practice of night herding (which deprives stock of full grazing time), and the
minimal subsistence grazing on which the animals must exist for long periods
during dry season mean that they take longer to mature (3 1/2 - 4 years), and
come into breeding condition much less frequently than under better management
conditions. Milking of cows for human consumption often leads to malnutri-
tion in calves and contributes to increased death rates. Productivity of
sheep is generally higher than that of cattle as the former are better
adapted to their environment; owners generally aim at three lamb crops in
two years.
Patterns of Ownership
13.       In recent years, traditional pastoral nomadism, particularly
among the Baggara, has come under pressure from a number of economic,
political and climatic factors which are gradually bringing about changes and



ANNEX 12
Page 5
inducing settlement on an increasing scale.  Older members of the 'farig' or
family group often remain as semi-sedentary cultivators with a small herd
while the young couples follow the traditional transhumant system. The
village-based herds are growing in importance and, while the problems of
maintaining such stock on surrounding grazing land are considerable, there is
ample opportunity and need to develop this pattern of management.
Feeding and Nutrition of Livestock
14.       The greater part of the Sudan consists of vast areas of grazing
lands utilized by nomadic and transhumant stockowners. The savanna and
the southern flood lands together provide about 80% of the feed consumed
by livestock and consist of annual and perennial grasses and some browsing
shrubs. However, because of the short growing season (July - September)
and the shortage and uneven distribution of water (mostly shallow wells),
most feed remains unused and is burned. Consequently, animal bodyweights
fluctuate considerably. Some of the land is used for farming but the
major part is grazed by livestock. The available grazing areas, by province,
are as follows:
Province              Total          Deductions           Rangeland and
million           million               Farming
(ha)              (ha)              (million ha)
Bahr El Ghazal        21.4             4.9 FT                  16.5
Blue Nile             14.2              -                      14.2
Darfour (N+S)         49.6             5.2 FT                  27.9
16.5 D
Equatoria             19.8             2.9 FT                  16.9
Kassala               34.1             8.5 D                   25.6
Khartoum               2.1              -                       2.1
Kordofan (N+S)        38.0             7.8 FT                  30.2
Northern              47.7            47.7 D                     -
Upper Nile            23.6            16.8 F                    6.8
250.5           110.3                   140.2
Note:   F = Flooded       T   Tsetse          D = Desert
Source:  Review of Livestock Development in the Sudan C.R. Halbrook
and M.R. Yust, USAID, 1964.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Assuming that some 8 million ha are under cultivation, there would then be
some 132 million ha of rangelands, not flooded, outside the tsetse fly area.
Of this area, it is estimated that some 40 million ha receive 130-350 mm
of rainfall and the remaining 92 million ha in excess of this. From these
assumptions it is estimated that the range could, in fact, support 1.5 times
more animals than at present, i.e. about 25 million cattle, 25 million sheep,
17.5 million goats and 5 million camels.
Fattening Operations and Feed Resources
15.       To hold and prepare animals for slaughter and export, simple live-
stock reconditioning operations have developed around Khartoum - Wad Medani in
recent years. Livestock are kept on bare land where they are fed groundnut
hulls, cotton-seed cake and mature sorghum stalks. All these operations have
high cost due to the shortage of low priced, better quality feedstuffs around
Khartoum without which efficient fattening performances cannot be attained.
The high cost has been worthwhile in recent years, as domestic and export
prices have been rising and as there has been a substantial margin between
buying and selling prices per kg. The Sudan produces a wide range of crops
and crop by-products which can be used for animal feeding (including cotton
seed and other oil cakes, groundnuts, sesame, sorghum, pulses, molasses,
wheat bran). During recent years a great increase in concentrate feeding of
livestock, especially of slaughterstock in feedlots, has taken place. In
spite of this, large quantities of available feed for livestock are either
unutilized or are exported. Cotton seed cake and bran from local mills are in
relative abundance and meet the main demand for feeds arising in the urban
areas. Oilseeds and oilseed cake, cotton and gum arabic, constitute the main
export commodities. A modern, automated feed compounding factory with a
capacity of 10,000 tons has been established in Khartoum in association with a
flour mill. In addition a number of commercial feedlots have their own
milling and mixing facilities. The table below, compiled by the FAO 1975
Perspective Study of Agricultural Development in the Sudan, gives an estimate
of the grains, by-products and crop residues available in 1970 and two alter-
native estimates for 1985.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Feed Availability ('000 tons)
1970             I            1985          II
Alternative            Alternative-
/1    /2     /
Prod.   Exp.  Feed    Prod. Exp.   Feed   Prod. Exp. Feed
Sorghum/Maize           -       -      18      -      -     103       1    1    204
Bran (from all
sources)              149      29   120    248       -     248    276    -    276
All oilseed cake       316      237    89    534    441      93    778   401   377
All cereal stubble
and straw              -       -    n.a.    -        -  15,500   -        - 17,500
Molasses                40       -    n.a.    75      -      75      75    -      75
/1   Total Production.
/2   Export.
/3   Used for livestock feed.
16.       Forage Production on Irrigated Land.  Approximately 1.5 million ha
of irrigated lands, mostly in the east, have contributed increasing amounts
of fodder production for the maintenance of livestock (both stock owned by
local farmers and trade stock passing through to the Khartoum or Wad Medani
markets). In addition, herds and flock utilize the aftermath of crops on
irrigated areas. There is also considerable potential for developing spe-
cialized forms of production by utilizing the rangelands for the production of
store animals, such as young bulls and male lambs, which can be finished in
feedlots utilizing feeds, fodder and agricultural by-products produced on the
irrigated areas Eventually an improved marketing system and more liberal ex-
port regulations should make finishing immature stock a more economic proposi-
tion. Projects are being developed (see Appendix 1) by the private sector
which depend heavily on feedlot operations relying on irrigated fodder pro-
duction. The feasibility studies for such projects seem to confirm that
growing of fodder per se would not be economical except when considered in
the context of an integrated operation comprising fattening and export
oriented processing.
Animal Health
17.       The range of animal disease problems in the Sudan is similar to
that of the whole Sudanic region of Africa. The high incidence of disease,
transhumant and nomadic systems of production, the lack of a road network and
difficulty of wet season transport and communication limit the extent to which
the small but highly professional veterinary service is able to cope with the
problems of animal health. The diseases of major economic importance which
affect the livestock industry of the Sudan are:



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(a) Rinderpest. An inter-African campaign (JP-15) has reduced
the incidence of, and possibly eliminated, this disease in
the Sudan. Vaccination of young stock continue, however.
(b) Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia. CBPP is encountered
throughout the country except in the Northern and Khartoum
provinces. It can be handled effectively by serological
tests during quarantine, rejection of reactors and by
vaccination.
(c) Foot and Mouth Disease. Foot and mouth disease is endemic in
the Sudan, and outbreaks occur from time to time. Although
this disease can be limited by the quarantinging of animals,
it is now considered commercially worthwhile to vaccinate
local trade stock against it.
(d) Epizootic Diseases. Local diseases which appear from time
to time include Anthrax, Black-quarter and Haemorrhagic
Septicaemia; these can be prevented by annual vaccination.
Tuberculosis is not a major disease problem, as it can be
controlled by testing during quarantining and rejection
of reactors; this procedure should be adopted in due course
for dairy and breeding herds. Brucellosis can be handled
by vaccination.
(e) Ectoparasites. Ticks and streptothricosis are not considered
to be prominent problems in nomadic life stock. Tabanus flies
feed vocariously and the Sudan is renowned for the prevalence
of these pests. Seasonally these cause a degree of stock worry
and loss of blood which can result in some loss of condition.
Routine treatments are required to reduce the parasite infes-
tation which builds up in the rains.
(f) Sheep Diseases. Pneumonias and various forms of enteritis
are prevalent during the rains, as is foot rot. Coccidiosis
is also known to occur. Sheep-pox is seen sporadically.
18.       Trypanosomiasis.  Large areas of the southern and south western
Sudan carry suitable vegetative habitat for and are infested with tsetse
fly (G. Pallipides and G. Morsitans). The Sudanese veterinary service has
long experience of the control and eradication of tsetse fly. Financial
constraints, however, have limited the extent to which control units could be
maintained and eradication campaigns carried out. Government is keenly aware
of the dangers of attempting to develop sedentary and semi-extensive livestock
production in fly infested areas, and a key support program to the production
sub-projects will include a survey program to identify and typify the extent
of fly infestation in suspected zones.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
Livestock Institutions and Government Services
19.       The development of national livestock marketing policies is the
responsibility of the newly established Livestock and Meat Marketing Comission
(LMMC). The responsibilities of the LMMC are fully detailed in Annex 7.
Other institutions which have responsibility for the livestock sub-sector
include:
(a)  The Ministry of Agriculture. Food and Natural Resources (MAFNR).
The Under-Secretary for Animal Resources controls and directs:
(i) Veterinary Service. The veterinary service is responsible
for all veterinary research and field services, diagnostic
laboratories, production of serum and vaccines, epidemic
controls, quarantine services and meat inspection.
(ii) Animal Production. A branch of the MAFNR is responsible
for animal husbandry extension services, breeding of
improved stock and administering provincial dairy production
units.
The Under-Secretary of Natural Resources controls and directs:
(i) Range Management. A division of range management services
is responsible for pasture improvement and field research,
forage production and the improvement of the natural
rangelands.
(b) The Animal Production Public Corporation (APPC). APPC is a
parastatal organization which has been specifically formed to
promote livestock production enterprises, alone or in partnership
with private organizations. It is particularly concerned with
large scale, extensive production of meat.
(c) Ministry of Cooperation and Rural Development. As part of
its overall development program, the Ministry is engaged in
ranching and tenant managed dairy schemes.
(d) Ministry of Local Government. The Ministry previously operated
urban slaughterhouse and collected livestock and agricultural
taxes. The Ministry was abolished in May 1977 and its responsi-
bilities returned to the provincial authorities.
(e) Ministry of Economics and Trade (MET). The MET has responsibility
for all export activities and trade agreements. Administration
of exports is, in fact, controlled by the Central Bank, which is
responsible for the issue of export licences, control over cur-
rencies and ensuring that remittance of foreign currency earnings
correspond to export sales receipts (Annex 9).



ANNEX 12
Page 10
20.       Veterinary Services.  The provision of adequate veterinary services
is vital to the future development of the livestock sub-sector. Veterinary
officers are stationed at province and district headquarters, with some
minor stations staffed with veterinary assistants. Animal health work consists
of routine surgeries held at headquarters and special mass vaccination cam-
paigns to control cattle diseases. The provision of proper services to
largely nomadic herds requires travel over extensive areas, and shortage of
transport is a constant handicap.
21.       Animals brought into the Three Towns must either have certificates
of vaccination from their provinces of origin or be submitted for vaccination
on entering Khartoum province. Provincial Councils, in addition to charging
for the vaccines, are entitled to charge traders for the vaccination certifi-
cates. All export animals have to be vaccinated; cattle against rinderpest,
haemorrhagic septicaemia and anthrax, and sheep against anthrax only. Only
vaccinations at Nyala, El Fasher, El Obeid and Kosti are accepted by quaran-
tine officials as valid for export purposes. Animals inspected elsewhere have
to be re-vaccinated before export. Export animals are generally held in
quarantine for minimums of 21 days (cattle) and 7 days (sheep). A part of
this period must be at the quarantine stations at Kadero, Port Sudan or Wadi
Halfa. Animals destined for export as meat are at present quarantined in
Kadero.
22.       Disease Free Zone.  Government has established a Disease Free
Zone (DFZ) in an area extending from Kadaro and Suakin north to the Egyptian
border. All animals destined for export will have to spend 21 days (cattle) or
7 days (sheep) in quarantine in yards on the DFZ border prior to export.
These conditions exceed the requirements of most Near East markets, but do not
satisfy the requirements of the European market for which the concept of the
DFZ was originally conceived. The administrative problems associated with
maintaining the DFZ will put a serious burden on Government's already strained
manpower resources.
Credit Requirements in the Livestock Sector
23.       Lack of bank credit is not considered to be a constraint to the
development of livestock production in its present form. It would not be
practicable at present to provide credit to the vast majority of nomadic
producers. The need for some form of institutional credit will arise, how-
ever, if landowning or established tenant farmers are to be assisted to take
up livestock production as an alternative or as an adjunct to crop produc-
tion. Credit will be required for the purchase of breeding stock, the im-
provement of pastures and the provision of fencing and water supplies. A
demand exists for credit for marketing, particularly among dealers who hold
animals for fattening before sale to the domestic market or for export. The
operations of such dealers are restricted by the fact that they are unable to
obtain credit (apart from the traditional 15-30 days delayed payment terms)
against their stock-in-trade, namely the livestock. This is a type of credit
which a bank could well consider providing. Once the rail transport system



ANNEX 12
Page 11
is in operation the extension of advances through the banks to traders rail-
ing cattle to buyers in Khartoum could accelerate the buying capacity of
the former. Such a facility would be guaranteed by the buyers, who would
authorize an advance of 80% of the value of the animals on the basis of load-
ing documents; this would enable the trader to start buying immediately
without having to wait, as is presently the case, for settlement when the
livestock arrive in Khartoum.
Proposed Modern Livestock Production Enterprises
24.       The Sudanese Government has actively encouraged foreign investment
in the livestock sub-sector. Consequently several foreign investors (mainly
from the Middle East and usually in partnerships with Sudanese merchants)
have proposed to undertake substantial investments in the livestock industry.
These investments will be concentrated for the most part on fattening and
finishing operations for export. The most important proposals include: the
Sudanese Animal and Agricultural Production Company (Ibrahim Talleb and
Associates) proposal for a feedlot located in Khartoum North; the Sudan
Kuwaiti Animal Production Company proposal for a feedlot and cannery for
Khartoum North and a 150,000 feddan ranch at Jebelein in White Nile Province;
the proposal of the Blue Nile Regional Development Project (Triad) for 1
million feddan ranch, feedlot, abattoir and cannery complex in Damazin;
and the Damazin Agricultural and Animal Production Company (Sudan Saudi
Investment Company) proposal similar to that of Triad. Finally, there are
five competing proposals for utilizing the northern blocks of Gezira (which
have gone out of cotton) for smallholder livestock fattening. A more
detailed description of the more important of these proposals is available
in Appendix 1.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Proposed Private Sector Investments
in Livestock Development
I. Sudanese Animal and Agricultural Production Co. Ltd.
(Ibrahim Talleb and Associates - SAAPCO)
1.        Status.  Construction of this scheme started in 1975; the Ministry
of Irrigation is under contract to complete the main canals and secondary
canals by July 1977. A feasibility study (January 1976) was carried out
by Amco-Sarad Agro International Corporation of California. The study was
financed by Qatar as a pre-condition for its investment in the company. A
second feasibility study was carried out by Guiness Peat (Overseas) Ltd. U.K.
who commissioned a meat marketing study by Mead Lonsdale, U.K. Financing by
IFC was sought and the project appraised in March 1977.
2.        Location.  This project is located in Khartoum North (Eseilat) on
27,000 feddans; 10,400 feddans of this total will be irrigated for fodder
production. The land has been acquired on a 30-year lease from the Ministry
of Local Government and an annual rent of 10 pt per feddan is payable. It is
within 3 km of the Kadero quarantine and export abbatoir and lies within the
designated Disease Free Zone (DFZ).
3.        Project Design.  The project would mainly involve establishment of a
livestock feedlot designed to handle some 39,000 cattle and 139,000 sheep per
annum. Forage crops and grain to be used as feed for the animals would be
produced on the project site; molasses and cottonseed cake would be purchased
for use as supplemental feed. Seventy-five per cent of the output of the
feedlot would be exported. Procurement of stock would be organized through
five collection centers in Darfur and Kordofan provinces; stock would also
come from two breeding ranches to be established by the project at a later
date at two as yet unspecified locations. Vegetables will also be grown on
the irrigated land, and there has been some suggestion that this activity
might be expanded to supply produce to the city or for export markets. It
seems likely that management will be supplied through a contract with the
consulting firm which carried out the first feasibility study.
4.        Finance.  The original investment was made by three large local
merchants (whose other major investment is in a textile factory). The
Sudan Development Corporation, Guiness Peat (Overseas) Ltd. London, and the
IFC are now considering investing in the scheme. SAAPCO has plans, which
have not yet been worked out in detail, to try to incorporate producers into
the company as shareholders; their contribution would be in kind, as a means
of helping to secure stock for the feedlot. The total cost of the project
feedlot is approximately US$18.0 million.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
II. Sudan Kuwaiti Animal Production Company (SKAPCO)
5.        Status  SKAPCO is a subsidary of the Sudanese Kuwaiti Investment
Company, Ltd. Its share capital of LSd 3.5 million is allocated between the
Kuwait Foreign Trading, Contracting and Investment Company (49%), the Sudanese
Kuwaiti Investment Company (44%), and Sudanese private investors (7%). SKAPCO
has leased land for its project and has had a very thorough feasibility study
carried out by ULO Consultants (Warwick) Ltd. Contracts to supply equipment
are out to tender. Irrigation of the first 7,000 feddans is expected to
commence in 1978.
6.        Location.  SKAPCO  has leased 27,000 feddans of land at Eseilat
(near the village of Kahas Kitrang) 65 km south of Khartoum on the east bank
of the Blue Nile. The project is inside the revised DFZ.
7.        Project Design.  The project would provide for establishment of an
irrigated fodder farm and feedlot on 27,000 feedans near Eseilat along the
Blue Nile. Some 7,000 feddans would be irrigated by pump from the Blue Nile
for the production of forage crops, lucerne and fodder sorghum; the remaining
20,000 feddans would not be irrigated (at least initially), but would be
established as natural pasture for holding stock. The feedlot will have a
capacity of 50,000 cattle and 100,000 sheep. Twenty per cent of the sheep and
32% of the cattle are for the domestic market; forty per cent of the sheep and
60% of the cattle will go to the chilled meat export market, especially
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. Stock would be procured in the
Nyala, El Obeid and Omdurman markets. A contract for the high level of
management required will be made with a consultant firm.
III. Blue Nile Regional Development Project
(AZLI Corporation, Affiliate of Triad)
9.        Status.  The AZL International Corporation, Agro-Services Group,
completed a study of this project in 1975, and the proposal has been submitted
to Government for approval. Final approval is expected shortly. Although
there are a number of important technical problems which were not resolved in
the study, implementation is likely to begin as planned, leaving the implemen-
tation team to adapt the project to the situation they find.
10.       Location.  The site of the Er Roseires ranch is 1 million acres
in Blue Nile Province, located between the Nile and the River Dinder. The
location of the associated irrigated farm and agro-industrial complex has not
yet been fixed.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 3
11.       Production method and output.  The project would establish a breed-
ing ranch at Er Roseires with 68,000 breeding cows along with 16,000 steers
for fattening and some pure bred Boran stock. Some 30,000 sheep will also
be held for breeding and fattening. Pasture on the ranch will be improved and
13,000 acres of mechanised sorghum and sesame will be grown for sale and
forage. Loans will be made available to "stabilize" some members of the
nomadic tribes in the area around the ranch who will supply part of the stock
for finishing. An irrigated farm of 30,000 acres would also be established;
it will produce cash, horticultural and forage crops. Altogether some 19,000
acres of cash and grain crops (including wheat, groundnuts and sorghum) and
1,000 acres of fruit and vegetables will be grown. Also, a livestock finish-
ing unit, abattoir and canning plant will be established at Sennar. The
abattoir and cannery will have a capacity of 70,000 cattle and 150,000 sheep
which will be supplied partly by the breeding ranch and partly (20,000 cattle
and 55,000 sheep) by purchases from the surrounding pastoralists.
12.       The project would also create social infrastructure services, now
completely lacking in the area. This includes schools, medical centers and
water supplies (for which UNICEF has been requested to carry out a survey in
the area). Technical services, including research and extension, animal
health and tsetse control and physical infrastructure, roads, irrigation
canals, stock watering points, are also scheduled to be included in the
project.
13.       Finance.  Total project cost is budgeted at US$93 million.  In
the proposed financing, Government and the producers would provide 3% of this
total and 95% would come from Arab sources (particularly Saudi Arabia, through
Triad) in the form of a grant or soft loan over 50 years. Additional finance
and management participation is being negotiated with Tate and Lyle Ltd. U.K.
IV. Damazin Agricultural and Animal Production Company
(Sudan Saudi Investment Company)
14.       Status.  It is believed that this project arose out of the livestock
section study of the Damazin area carried out by the Arab Organization
for Agricultural Development (AOAD) in 1974. The Company has been set up by
Prince Mohamed Faisal (Saudi Arabia) and a Former Minister of State for
Agriculture has been appointed as an advisor by the President. A new detailed
feasibility study has been contracted for. The first group of 5,000 head
of cattle are expected to be fattened by the end of 1978.
15.       Location.  Half a million acres in Blue Nile Province near Damazin,
west of the Blue Nile on the edge of the Ingessana Hills has been allocated to
the project. The AOAD study also examined the possibility of a site near
Khartoum for a feedlot, slaughterhouse and processing plants.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
16.       Project Design.  The project includes proposals for the collection
and holding of animals in seven regional stations, where they would maintained
until transferred to a feedlot, and slaughterhouse complex where meat would be
chilled or frozen for export. Damazin airport would be improved to enable use
by commercial meat-carrying aircraft. Total output at full development is
estimated at 120,000 cattle and 240,000 sheep producing 24,000 tons of meat
per year.
November 10, 1977



