D0umcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
RqewttNo. 7836
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
JUNE 21, 1989
Africa Region
Eastern Africa
Agrieulture Operations Division
Tbb docmentohas a nsoicted dstibution and may be wed by redieDtsonly In the perfomume of
dkd *Mdlh dude& Its ootmte  may nOt otbrwi*  be dskned wiftot World Bank auhorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
FAO      -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nationf
FAOICP   -     FLO and IBRD Cooperative Program
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
GOS      -     Government of Sudan
IDA      -     International Development Association
LMCM     -     Livestock and Heat Marketing Corporation
ODA      -     UK Overseas Development Administration
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
RMEA     -     Bank Resident Mission in Eastern Africa
SiAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
SRC      -     Sudan Railways Corporation



Ka OFICIAL W   ONLY
THf WORID SANK
WashNton. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O&O 0 OWcbV.GSWaJ
June 21, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: .Project Completion Report on Sudan Livestock
Marketing Prolect (Credit 782-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sudan Livestock Marketirg Project
(Credit 782-SU)" prepared by tne Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restrcted distrbution and may be used by rapients onl in the performa
of thei ofcial duties. Its contents may not otowis be disclosed without World ank authodzaion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface        .............................................                i
Basic Data Sheet           ....................................            ii
Evaluation Slnmary            ..................................           iv
I . AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .........................                                1
Agriculture in Sudan ....................                                   1
Livestock Sub-sector .................                                      2
Experience with Past Lending  ............... .                             4
TI. PROJECT FORMULATION                     ...5.............. 
Origin,  Preparation and Appraisal  .................              ..       5
objectives    ......................................... .                   5
General Description of Project  ......................                      6
Project Components  .......          .................... .                 6
Project Execution  ...................              ...............         8
III.    IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION PERFORMANCE ..........                 ..      10
Overview            ...........................................           10
Livestock Marketing  .......           ..........................         11
Livestock Exports                 ...................................      12
Livestock Transport  ....           .............................         12
Institution Development ......              .......................       13
Consultants and Training  ............................                    14
Project Costs  .........          ..............................          15
Financing             .......................................             15
Procurement              .........................................        15
IV.    BENEFITS,  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ..... ......                   16
Benefits            ............................................          16
Financial Performance of LMKC .....               ..................      16
Economic Analysis  .......             ............................       16
Impact on Livestock Policy  ..........................                    17
V.    ASSESSMENT OF BANK PERFGiMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED...                      17
IDA Performance              .....................................        17
Lessons Learned            ....................................            18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tables 1 - Rey Indicators
2 - Project Cost Sunmry
3 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
4 - Livestock Throuighput for all Markets
5 - Sheep and Cattle Exports
6 - Block Train Traffic
7 - LMKC Financial Perfonmance Summary
8 - Economic Rate of Return



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARXCETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Livestock
Marketing Project in Sudan, for which Credit 782-SU in the amount of US$25
million was approved on March 26, 1978. The Credit was closed on December
31, 1986, two years behind schedule; an unused balance of US$1.46 million
was cancelled. The date of final disbursement was July 9, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Africa Region Eastern Africa
Department in collaboration with the Sudan Livestock Marketing Corporation
after a mission to Sudan in September 1987, and is based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1726-SU dated February 24, 1978), the
President's Report (No. P-2193a-SU dated March 2, 1978), the Credit
Agreement of Jrne 16, 1978, correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as
interviews with officials both in the Bank and in Sudan who have been
associated with the project.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinancier on March 13, 1989,
for comments by May 1, 1989, but none were received.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LXVESTOCK MARKETINO PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as U
Apprelsal              of Apprailal
Estimate     Actual      Eatiu.tat
Total Project Cost (USS Million)         51.8        87.9           74
Credit Mwunt (US$ Million)               26.0        26.4          100
Disburod (US$ Million)                   2650        23.6           94
Cancelled (US$ Million)                     -         1.6            -
Cofinancing (ODA) (USS illion)            8.1
Date Board Approval                         -      08/26/78          -
Credit Agrement Date                        -      98/16/78          -
Date of Effectiveness                 09/14/78     07/09/79        260 /a
Date Physical Components Completed    95/81/64     12/81/88        188 /A
Proportion Then Comploted ()         100          86 8e Jl;
Closing Date                          12/81/84     12/31J86        188 /i
Economic Rate of Return (X)              15           40           267
Institutional Performnce                    -   Satisfactory
Technical Performance                       -   Satisfactory
STAFF INPUT /c
FY74  FY76  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY86  FYS8  FY82  FY68  FY84  FY86  FY86                TOTAL
IdentifIcation/Preperation         8.8  118.5    7.9  19.9                                                                     149.8
Appraisal                                              97.8  56.9                                                              15S.7
Neotiation                                                     8.1                                                               6.1
Supervilson                        0.2                         1.9   9.7  16.0  18.6  11.1  16.0  17.2  14.8   9.9             198.6
Total                           8.8  118.6   7.9  117.7  86.9   9.7  14.0  18.5  11.1  15.9  17.2  14.6   9.0               421.1
CUMJLATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY78  FY79  FY86  FY81  FY82  FY68  FY84  FY36  FY86   FY87   FY88
Appraisal Estimtes (US* 1)         -      2.4   6.4  12.5  16.6  20.9  22.0  26.0   -            -      -
Actual (US million)                       -      9.5   1.0  12.8  12.8  18.9  15.5  19.2  22.8  28.5
Actual as of   Estimate            _      -      8            74    64    a8    62
Date of Final Disbr.ennt           July 9, 1987



MISSION1 DATA
Dote       No. of      Specialization      Performance
Mission             (mo/yr)     Persons      Represented           Rating       Trend   Problems
Identification/
Prep./Appr.       8/77          8        L,F,R,M,C,T,E  /d      /I             /f
Supervision 1        6/79          2        L,F                     S                         -
Supervision 2        12/79         6        L,AE,A                   2             2        L,T
Supervision B        6/80          1        L                        2             2        M,T
Supervision 4        12/80         1        L                        -             -        M,T
Supervlilon 6        7/81          1        L                        2             2        M,T
Supervision 6        12/81         2        L,F                      2             1        M,T
Supervlslon 7        12/82         1        L                        2             2        M,T
Supervision 8        1/88          5        L,F,E                    -             -        M,T
Supervision 9        8/83          1        L                        2             2         1,T,0
Supervision 10       11/883                 L,F,E                    -             -        U,0
Supervlslon 11       6/84          8        L,AE,F                   2             1        U,O
Supervision 12       11/84         8        L,AE,F                   1             -        U,0
Supervision 18       8/86          8        L,AE,E                   -             -         1,0
Supervision 14       12/86         8        L,AE,F                   -             -        1,0
Supervislon 15       7/86          1        L                        2             -        O
OTHER PROJECT DATA/INFORMATION
9orrower:            _             Government of Sudan
Eiecutin A eno :                   Livestock and Meat Markoting Corporation                                                                   t.
Frisco  Tor OT tne Borrower:       -        Julv 1 to June 80
Name of Currency (Abbreviatlons): -         Sudanese Pound (LSD)
Curr nEy Exchange Rte
AppraIiT l FYiFw rog.           -        US1.01 * LSD 0 .40
Ioplamentation Year. Average    -        USB1.00 a LSD 1.94
ComPletion Year Average         -        US$1.00 a LSD 2.5W
/a  Claculated in tersr of months from Board approval.
to In terms of financial expenditures In respect of civil works, vhieles and technical equipment.
/3 Input of staff weeks. Source: World Sank Planning and Budgeting Deprtment.
/3  L - Livestock Specialist; F - Financial Analyst; R - Railways Specialist; M - Marketing Specialist; E - £eonomist; AE - Agelcultural
Economint.
/c  1 a Problem fre  or minor problems; 2 = Mbderat  problemsl 8 * Major problems.
IV 1 a Improving; 2 a Statlonary; 8 * Detertorating.
F a Finoncial; 1   Managerll; T = Technlcal; P a Politieal; 0 a Other.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARRTING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
EVALUATION SUMNARY
Intzoduction
A 1972 Livestock Sector Review and Project Identification Study
identified inadequate market infrastructure and livestock transport
capacity as the major constraints limiting the potential of Sudan's
livestock industry. On the basis of these findings subsequent preparation
missions formulated a project suitable for financing by the Intarnational
Development Association (IDA).
Obiectives
The project aimed at underpinning the Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation (LMMC), which had been established in October 1976, and the
creation of a railway transport unit by the Sudan Railways Corporation
(SRC) to move livestock from the producing areas in Darfur and Kordofan to
the urban centers in Central Province and for export. The project
components included, in addition to railway rolling stock for livestock
transport, the improvement of market infrastructure, the construction of a
headquarters building for LMMC in Rhartoum, the establishment of a
communication network, and the provision of technical assistance and
training to build a strong management team in LMMC.
Implementation Exo,erience
The project was implemented by the LMMC in cooperation with the
SRC. The project has been successfully implemented, as indicated by the
increased numbers of livestock transported and exported as well as by the
profitability of the implementing agencies which exceeded appraisal
estimates. The positive trend was temporarily interrupted in 1986 when
livestock exports were restricted because of the effect of the 1963-85
drought. This had a negative impact on the LMMC's operations and revenies.
Delays in reaching an adequate arrangement between the two executing
agencies (LMMC and SRC) with respect to operating costs and transport fees
were an early disquieting feature of implementation, but this did not
affect the provision of these services while agreements were being
negotiated. The increase in throughput at Improved or newly established
livestock markets and the smooth transition from irovincial to LMMC
management of those markets provide convincing evidence that the project
concept was sound.



-v -
Technical assistg.ce, provided by ODA, was an important factor in
the successful establishment and operation of LMMC, but greater emphasis
on technical assistance would have been beneficial to SRC. It would have
been particularly helpful in the selection and procurement of suitable
equipment and spare parts as well as in speeding up the construction of
railway yards. It would also have contributed to a better understanding
and collaboration batween LMKC and SRC by ensuring a better dialogue on
objectives and issues. Cooperation between LMMC and SRC after the project
is completed and technical assistance withdrawn is essential to the
continuing success of the project.
The project was appraised before LMHC wes fully established and
this explains the focus on strengthening LMMC, which was correctly
perceived to be the lead institution. Performance during the
implementation period indicates that this focus was justified, and, in
addition, indicates that the assumptions made during appraisal were
realistic and conservative.
The actual project cost was US$37.9 million or about 752 of the
cost estimated at appraisal. The lower cost was due to the agreed non-
implementation or modification of some components -- the construction of
fewer secondary markets (9 out of 11), Livestock Marketing offices (2 out
of 12), railway yards (8 out of 10) and the omission of 30 primary markets
originally proposed (Table 1). Actual prices for locomotives and wagons
were also lower than ap'raisal estimates. Lower costs were partly the
effect of frequent devaluations of the Sudanese currency associated with
the comparatively high rate of inflation in Sudan over the project period.
Implementation problems were ma'nly related to procedural
difficulties which delayed credit effect. - ness, and to managerial
weaknesses in LMMC and SRC, which led to pioeurement and construction
delays for railway yards and, to a lesser extent, for livestock markets.
The main contract under the project for the construction of LMMC's
headquarters in Rhartoum was, however, executed in an efficient and timely
manner. Although some technical staff, who were trained under the project,
were lost to the private sector, their enhanced stills were not lost to the
Sudanese economy. Two major events outside the project's control had an
important impact on the project's performance. The first and most serious
one was the 1983-85 drought which directly and indirectly disrupted the
number of livestock transported, marketed and exported. The second was the
well established practice of smuggling export animals to avoid export taxes
and to circumvent currency regulations which prevailed at t1a outset of the
project.
Results
The following points are particularly noteworthys
-   appraisal estimates of 1,160,000 sheep and 200,000 cattle
throughput per year at full development in markets under the
project had been surpassed by 1984 although the project had
not reached full development. Cattle throughput for
virtually all years was more than double appraisal



- vi -
expectations and sheep throughput exceeded appraisal
expectations (para. 3.06):
- appraisal estimates of sheep transported by rail were met,
until the export ban was imposed in 1986, if an allowance is
made for the one year delay in starting block train
operations. However, cattle traffic fell short of estimaces
for 1983 and 1984 (para 3.09);
-   LMMC performance in establishing and administering livestock
transporting, marketing and exporting has been commendable
and its financial performance impressive (para. 3.12);
- the technical assistance and training component provided by
ODA made a vital contribution to strengthening LMMC and to
the project's institution building objectives (para. 3.17);
3 important livestock sub-sector policy decisions such as the
elimination of a 25Z export tax and the introduction of a
more realistic exchange rate for livestock exports can be
largely attributed to the project (paras. 3.05);
du.Aing the drought, project rolling stock was the main
vehicle for transporting food to and evacuating livestock
from the severely affected areas and as a result the project
made an important contribution to alleviating the worst
effects of the drought (para 3.13).
Sustainability
In the course of project implementation, LMNC developed the
capacity to plan and monitor operations and transport livestock in SRC
block trains. A computerized information system, together with the radio
communication u'twork provided under the project, enabled LMMC to establish
a valuable inventory to monitor livestock movements through primary and
terminal markets as well as through the holding grounds. As a result, the
demand for rail transport can be accurately predicted and timely
arrangements made to transport livestock by block trains to Khartoum for
the domestic market or to Port Sudan for export.
A stock of block train spare parts to meet estimated requirements
for the next five years was provided under the project to ensure that
tranport operations can be maintained with minimal disruptious.  The cost
accounting system established by LMMC enables the full cost of its
services to be recovered from beneficiaries. Livestock transport and
marketing will operate oi - self financing basis from now on and this is an
important step in ensuring their long term sustainability.
The maior lessons from the project are that:
(a) it was a success because it filled a major need in Sudan's
livestock transport and marketing systems;



- vii -
(b) early planning and procurement of spare parts is essential to
avoid reductions and uisruptions in rail transport services
for livestock (para 3.1);
tc) technical assistance could have been better balanced between
the executing agencies LHMC and SRC even though SRC had been
established for a longer perioc of time and was fully
operational at the outset of the project (paras 3.18 and
5.02); and
(d) the capability of agencies responsible for constructing
buildings and civil works should be carefully assessed at
appraisal and sufficient technical assistance provided to
ensure timely construction.
The success of the project (estimated ERR 40X), notable as it is,
would have been further enhanced if the problems arising from SRC's
unfamiliarity w*th a livestock-related operation were foreseen and avoided.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 782-SU)
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
AKriculture in Sudan
1.01     The Agricultural sector, composed of both crops and livestock,
accounts for about 40Z of Sudan's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It is the
source of virtually all exports, employs over 702 of the labor force and
provides primary inputs for a large proportion of Sudan's industrial
activities. Crop production can be divided into three categoriest (a)
about 1.6 million hectares of capital-intensive irrigated cotton and food
crops including wheat, sorghum and groundnuts; (b) about 2.2 million
hectares of rainfed commercial farms producing mainly sorghum; and (c)
about 4.5 million hectares producing sorghum and oil seeds under
traditional subsistence farming. The Livestock sub-sector accounts for
about 302 of the value of agricultural production and is characterized by
two features - nomadic cattle raising and livestock production by settled
farmers.
1.02     During the 19709 and the early part of 1980s, the performance of
the Agricultural sector declined due to low producer prices for export
crops, inadequate foreign exchange allocations for imported agricultural
inputs, poor repair and maintenance of machinery and equipment on
mechanized farms and inadequate recovery of water costs in irrigation
schemes, leading in turn to poor repair and maintenance of irrigation
machinery and the water distribution system. The situation was exacerbated
by a deterioration in the balance of payments and a shortage of local
budgetary resources. In addition, a series of sub-normal rainfall seasons
in the four-year period 1982 to 1985 contributed to the decline of
agricultural production in the rainfed sector.
1.03     As part of an economic recovery program which started in 1982, the
Government reordered investment priorities and concentrated on
rehabilitating the irrigation sector and completing ongoing projects. As a
result, yields for irrigated rrops such as cotton, groundnuts and sorghum
increased, in all cases substantially, and in some cases by more than 502.
New projects were limited to those whose returns could be achieved quickly
and this helped alleviate foreign exchange shortages. These new projects
included the production of irrigated groundnuts and sesame. Even though
the rainfed sector has a aood potential compared to many other African
countries, recent exceptionally dry years caused a continuous decline in
the production of crops such as sorghum, sesame, gum arabic and millet.
The increasing population pressure in the South Western Savannah region
(Darfur and Kordofan) is giving rise to more intensive cultivation, which
in turn is causing a serious decline in soil fertility. The problem is
exacerbated by migration from drought affected areas in the North,
instability in land tenure for small farmers and the allocation of large
tracts of land for uncontrolled mechanized farming.



- 2 -
1.04     The Government is fully aware of the declining soil fertility
problems and has formed task forced, with IDA support, to investigate land
tenure problems and find ways to stabilize farming systems in these rainfed
areas. In response to the Government's concerns, IDA supported a follow-up
(Western Savannah Project II) to the Western Savannah Project (Credit
1181-SU) in the Darfur region with the objective of increasing the
availability and security of food and water supplies without at the same
time causing environmental degradation. It is expected that encouragement
provided for sedentary farming in Settlement Schemes and the provision of
demarcated grazing areas for nomadic communities in managed rangelands will
help to prevent the decline in soil fertility and arrest environmental
degradation. In addition, adaptive research to generate, screen and
demonstrate iun'roved crop production technology for the area is supported
under the Wesanr} Savannah II project.  A similar -vpe of project, the
South Kordofaa AP. tcultural Development Project,   . been appraised by IDA.
It's main o  -..ive is to improve farming productivity by arresting the
decline in s5i, iertility and preventing environmental degradation.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
1.05     The livestock industry is one of the main sources of food and
employment in Sudan as well as being an important source of foreign
exchange. About half the country's herd and flocks are owned by
pastoralists who traverse some 60 million hectares of rangeland, with most
of the remainder being owned by small sedentary cultivators. Efforts to
modernize and expand livestock production have largely concentrated on
livestock fattening and processing for export. The expansion and
improvement of the livestock industry has been seriously hindered by the
lack of adequate marketing facilities and poor transport, which resulted in
substantial weight loss and value of the animals during trekking.
1.06     Statistical information on livestock numbers in Sudan is extremely
weak. Official government estimates are based on extrapolated data from
the 1975176 census and since the coefficients used in the projections are
not based on reliable surveys, they must be interpreted with extreme
caution. The 1975176 National Livestock Census recorded 15.4 million
cattle, 16.2 million sheep, 11.3 million goats, 2.4 million camels, and 1.8
million donkeys, horses and mules. The official estimate of livestock
numbers for 1986 shows 22 million cattle, 21 million sheep, 15 million
goats and 3 million camels. The estimate in the SAR for the Stock Route
project is considered the most reliable one available. It was made by the
appraisal mission and showed 16 million cattle, 21 million sheep and 13
million goats in 1983.
1.07     The Stock Route Appraisal Mission's estimate indicates that while
sheep numbers had increased by about 302 since 1975-76 and goats by about
10?, the increase in cattle numbers was only about 42. Up to now the meat
supply has been more than adequate to meet domestic demand, and an export
surplus existed which allowed Sudan to export about half a million live
sheep and some beef. Domestic livestock population in the main producing
rangelands of Western Sudan have built up in recent years and now exceed
carrying capacity. Hence, future livestock population increases, if they
were to occur, would not lead to more meat production. The foreseen
increase in the human population of Sudan is, therefore, not expected to be



- 3 -
matched by increases in livestock numbers or meat marketed. The pressure
on the demand side is becoming increasingly evident 1 and the Government,
in an attempt to alleviate increases in meat prices in Khartoum, placed a
temporary ban on livestock exports in July 1986 which was not rescinded
until August 1987. The rapid increase in poultry production lends further
support to the proposition that supply is not keeping pace with demand, and
it is expected that this trend will continue unless human population growth
declines or improved livestock husbandry produces better offtake rates or
heavier carcasses. Even though the situation has recently been exacerbated
by drought, the trend is expected to reflect increased pressure on the
demand side. Foreseeable increases in cattle, sheep and goat populations
are unlikely to meet the increased demand because of constraints isposed by
the harsh environment and the traditional production systems.
1.08     Commercial offtake is estimated to be about 102 for cattle and 182
for sheep and goats, producing about 250,000 metric tons of beef, 65,000
tons of mutton and 35,000 metric tons of goat meat. About 3 million cows
calve each year and yield on average about 300 liters of milk per head in
excess of calf requirements. Together with minor milk production from
goats, total annual milk production is estimated to be 1.3 million tons.
Production of meat and milk from the sub-sector is worth about LSd 1800
million at 1986 prices.
1.09     For many years Sudan has exported sheep to Saudi Arabia, where
rapid urbanization and population growth created a demand for imported meat
which is expected to increase during the next decade. In 1986 Saudi Arabia
imported about 6 million sheep and goats of which 5 percent came from
Sudan, 41 from Australia, 27 from Turkey, 17 from Somalia and 5 percent
from New Zealand which entered the Saudi Arabian market for the first time
in that year. Sudanese sheep exports reached 650,000 head in 1982183, the
highest official number ever recorded. Sudan has also traditionally
expo:ted some live cattle and goats and more recently some chilled beef, to
Egypt and Yemen. These exports have been much less in volume and value
than the sheep exports. Total livestock exports from 1980 to 1983 were
valued at US$170 million. It is important to note that the livestock
sector has much higher net foreign exchange earnings than the crop sector
because of the comparatively low levels of imports needed to support the
sector.
1.10     The increase in livestock exports during the project period was in
part caused by the removal of the 252 export tax as well as improvements in
the marketing and transportation of cattle and sheep under the project.
Although the effect of removing the export tax on increasing exports was
significant, the improvements in livestock marketing and transportation
under the project is also judged to have made a major contribution.
Additional IDA support for livestock marketing is being provided under the
Stock Route Project (Cr.1525-SU) by constructing water points along the
traditional livestock routes from producing areas in the south west to
1/ Meat prices are estimated to have increased about 40X in real terms
between 1973 to 1976 when large numbers of livestock died because of the
drought.



- 4 -
Khartoum. Some of these livestock will be transported by block trains or
by trucks financed under the project to Port Sudan for export.
1.11     During 1984/85, livestock production declined due to severe
drought in the producing areas of western Sudan. As a result, the
Government banned livestock exports in an effort to build up the national
herd. The ban was lifted in August 1987 following two normal rainfall
seasons.
Experience with Past IDA Lending
1.12     More than half of the total Bank lending to Sudan is for the
agricultural sector. In the last 10 years, eight irrigation projects,
three mechanized farming projects, six smallholder development projects, an
agricultural research project, two livestock infrastructure projects and
two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program credits made up IDA commitments
amounting to a total of about US$0.5 billion.  More than 70Z of these funds
were invested in irrigation projects with the objective of restoring
Sudan's capacity to produce cotton which had fallen from 1.4 million bales
in 1970/71 to less than 0.6 million in the early 1980s. Investments in
irrigation and institutional development, together with improvements in
producer incentives, increased cotton production in 1985/86 to 1970/71
recorded levels. In addition, by 1985186 more than 70X of Sudants sorghum
and 40? of its sesame were produced on mechanized farms which required
credit support. In these years, Sudan exported sorghum to middle eastern
countries. The livestock marketing project under review helped to increase
sheep exports more than threefold over the last five years; making
livestock the second largest net foreign exchange earner after cotton.
1.13     In an effort to provide much needed information on production
constraints and environmental factors for Sudan's Savannah areas, the
Government re-directed investment priorities to provide increased support
for agricultural research during the early 1980s. As a consequence, the
IDA-assisted Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) became
effective in 1980 and the Western Savannah Project - Phase I (WSPI) started
in 1981. The WSARP addressed the n.eed to develop agricultural production
technology and improve land conservation and farming systems in the Western
Savannah regions (Kordofan and Darfur). WSPI was in essence a pilot
project to rationalize land use by developing water points and allocating
land to smallholders in settlement schemes. Improvements in technology
generated by the project, i.e. phosphate application on millet, were
extended with encouraging results to smallholders. As well as increasing
yield, however, phosphate stimulated the growth of a parasitic weed
(striga), but it was impressively demonstrated by the project that striga
could be controlled by rotating millet and pulses. WSPI also included
range and livestock management trials which aimed at rectifying overgrazing
by granting exclusive tenure for dry season grazing to small groups of
pastoralists, but which also allowed traditional transhumant livestock
movements during the remainder of the year. These trials showed that
rangeland pasture composition improved. Pasture productivity trials in
South Darfur during 1983 and 1984 showed increased livestock weight gains
and additional milk production. Excess milk was processed into cheese
which found a ready market in the provincial township of Nyala.



II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Proiect Origin. Preparation and Appraisal
2.01     The need for the project was initially identified in November 1972
by a Livestock Sector Review and Project Identification Study which was
carried out by private consultants at the request of the Government and
interested donor agencies, including IDA. The initial design aimed at
improving the under-utilized potential of the Sudanese cattle, sheep and
dairying sub-sectors and although the components changed during project
preparation, the basic objective remained. Three preparation missions,
which included IDA and FAO/CP staff members and private consultants,
visited the country in January, July and October 1974, and in February and
May 1975. Changes in project design responded to needs which were
identified by these missions and duplication of activities financed by
other donors was avoided. In an October 15, 1976 Decision Memorandum, IDA
made a final decision to separate the Livestock Marketing and Railway
Transport components from other related activities and by December 1976, an
updated Project Brief presented the project in its final form.
2.02     The updated project focussed on activities to support the recently
established (October 17, 1976) Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
(ILMMC) and included a Railway Transport component originally identified in
the 1975 FAOICPIIBRD project identification report. The redesigned project
included components to: (a) provide technical and administrative assistance
to LHMC; (b) improve the infrastructure of livestock markets, and (c)
provide a new headquarters building for LMHC.
2.03     The project was appraised in February-March 1977.  Changes
introduced during appraisal included the deletion of a river transport
component. the exclusion of airport marshalling yards, and a reduction in
the number of secondary markets, block trains and railway holding yards.
The main issues identified during appraisal were related to the risk of
poor cooperation between the LMMC and the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC),
which would be responsible for operating livestock trains, and concern
about SRC's capability to maintain reliable services. Some legal issues
relating to LMC's ofperations were also raised, as well as the issue' of
local cost financing. These issues were resolved in subsequent discussions
and during Credit negotiations. The appraisal mission recommended the use
of the IBRD Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance certain
expenditures to be incurred by LMMC after April 1977, in order to allow the
project to get underway. The PPF was approved on June 21, 1977. The
reformulated project, as proposed by the appraisal mission, was supported
by the Government of Sudan during an Appraisal Follow-up mission in October
1977. Costing US$51.3 million (Table 2), it was approved by IDA's Board of
Directors on March 23, 1978 and became effective on July 9, 1979.
Proiect Objectives
2.04     The project was a first step in the Government's strategy to
support the long term development of Sudan's meat industry and aimed at
supporting an organized livestock marketing system and encouraging
livestock producers in the six Western provinces of the country to increase
the number of cattle and sheep channelled through the newly established



- 6 -
markets. The improved railway transportation facilities were intended to
reduce weight and value losses when animals are trekked, to increase
exports of live cattle, sheep and carcass meat, as well as ensuring regular
supplies of beef and mutton, at stable prices, to the Khartoum market.
2.05     Other expected benefits included an increase in producer prices;
an increase in the number of marketed immature animals for fattening units
which would in turn ensure regular supplies to export and domestic markets;
an improvement in the efficiency of animal disease control; and an
enhancement of LMWC's capability to develop long term national livestock
marketing policies and strategies.
General Description of the Proiect
2.06     The project was intended to support, over a six year period, the
development of an organized, national livestock marketing system through
the establishment of both market and transport infrastructure and the
provision of staff and supporting services for WMHC (Table 3).
Specifically, the project made provision for:
(a) livestock trensport, including the purchase of locomotives
and wagons for livestock block trains to transport cattle and
sheep from the Western producing areas to Khartoum and Port
Sudan, and working capital for LMMC;
(b) the establishment of railway holding, transit and terminal
yards at strategic locations along the railway line which
would facilitate the collection of livestock by LMKC in
advance of train departures, allow stock to be rested during
the long journey from the west, and furnish a means of
quarantining stock from the moment they enter the holding
yards;
(c) improvement and/or establishment of 11 secondary markets,
improvement of 30 primary markets, and construction of two
terminal markets near Khartoum;
(d) construction of a headquarters building and the provision of
staff salaries, vehicles, equipment and housing for W C; and
(e) technical assistance, training and studies.
2.07     The LNHC had overall responsibility for the organization and
implementation of the project. It was assisted by the Department of Animal
Resources in providing veterinary services at the markets and at the
railway yards. SRC was responsible for the technical operation of the
livestock block trains.
Proiect Components
2.08     Livestock Transport Component.  The project would support the
establishment by LMMC of a block train freight service between the
producing areas in the west and Khartoum, and between Khartoum and Port
Sudan, the main export outlet. New rolling stock purchased under the



project would be owned by SRC and leased to LMMC who, in turn, would pay
SRC to operate the equipment. In addition, SRC would lease the required
number of cattle wagons from its existing stock to LMC for varying periods
in line vith project needs.
2.09     The equipment to be procured would constitute four block trains,
three of which would be composed of 20 double-decker sheep wagons, seven
cattle wagons, a guard van and a brake van. The fourth olock train would
consist of 27 cattle wagons and 2 vans and would be operated only during
the peak operation period. A Transport Agreement was signed between LMMC
and SRC specifying lease terms, guarantees of equipment availability,
maintenance procedures, scheduling and operation of the block trains, and
other matters of mutual concern to the two corporations.
2.10     The equipment to be purchased under the Livestock Transport
component includeds
(a) 10 locomotives (including two spares to facilitate
maintenance and overhaul);
(b) 69 double-deck sheep wagons (including 3 extra for
maintenance purposes and 6 for traffic spares);
Cc)  9 vans (including 4 guard, 4 brake and 1 spare); and
(e)  locomotive spare parts equal to lOX of the total cost of the
locomotive.
2.11     The resulting transport system was expected to transport, at full
capacity, some 4,000 sheep and 175 cattle in each of the mixed trains, with
the peak season train handling an additional 2,700 sheep or 675 head of
cattle.
2.12     Transport Infrastructure Comoonent.  To enable LNMC to operate the
scheduled livestock freight service at a higher level of operating
efficiency, the project was to establish 6 holding yards, 3 transit yards,
one terminal and necessary sidings along the railroad between Nyala and
Khartoum. The holding and transit yards would allow the Journey to be
broken into stages, minimizing mortality and weight loss as well as
facilitating quarantine and disease control measures. The holding yards
would, in addition, allow the building up of specific numbers of carloads
of stock in advance of train departures. The railway terminal yard was to
be built at Soba, 10 km south of Khartoum, where animals failing to meet
export standards would be sent to the Soba market for local sale while all
other stock would be transferred to the yard's quarantine holding pens or
loaded and shipped to Port Sudan for export. Investments at the terminal
yard included holding pens, loading ramps, offices and veterinary supplies.
2.13     Market Infrastructure Component.  The project was to establish or
improve 30 primary, 11 secondary and two terminal markets, mainly in the
major livestock producing areas, but with some investments in other
production and marketing centers. Infrastructure was to be provided for
orimary markets, which, at the time of appraisal, had no facilities of any
kind; these included thorn fences, sales ring and entrance and exit races



with connccting gates. Six mobile marketing teams were scheduled to
supervise the primary markets during predetermined market days and provide
for vaccination of all livestock entering the markets. The eleven
secondary markets to be constructed or improved were to be administered by
a 15-man market team headed by a Harket Master. As in the primary markets,
veterinary staff would provide vaccination and inspection of all stock
passing through the markets and would issue movement permits. Whenever
possible, the secondary markets were to be constructed on the same site
where an earlier market existed, except when space or water requirements
made it necessary to move them to a new location. Terminal markets were to
be built at two locations near Rhartoums one mainly to handle the western
stockroutes and replace the overcrowded existing market; the other to
handle stock arriving by train, as well as trade stock trekked in from the
inter-riverine area. The first terminal market was expected to handle
about 480 cattle and 3,000 small stock per day while the second would have
a daily capacity of only 180 cattle and 1,300 small stock for the Soba
market.
2.14     LMHC Headquarters and Field Staff Component.  An important
institution-building component of the project was the support provided for
the newly established Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation. This
support included:
(i) construction of an office building and provision of staff,
vehicles and equipment;
(ii) provision of a radio communications network to connect
L-MC headquarters with terminal and secondary markets and
with all project transport facilities, and
(iii) provision of five tractor-trailer combinations (plus four
spare trailers) for transporting livestock.
2.15     In addition to the above, it was agreed that holding facilities
sufficient to accommodate livestock from one block train at Port Sudan
would be provided under the IDA-assisted Ports Project I (Credit 781-SU).
2.16     Technical Assistance. TraininR and Studies Component.  Provision
was made for 360 man-months of technical assistance to assist LMMC in
implementing the project and in developing long term national livestock
marketing and pricing policies. The assistance provided comprised six
internationally-recruited specialists in the fields of livestock and meat
marketing, livestock and meat economics, finance and administration,
livestock transportation, and construction supervision. Also included in
the project were 40 man-months of training for senior LMMC staff through
fellowships and study tours overseas and in East Africa. A program for the
training of intermediate staff was to be established by the Regional
Livestock Marketing Advisors and other local staff would be given on-the-
job training as required.
Proiect Execution
2.17     The project was to be implemented over six years.  The
construction of railway yards, terminal markets and the LMHC headquarters



- 9 -
building was expected to be completed by the third year, secondary markets
by the fourth year and primary markets by the early part of the sixth year.
The operation of railway transport was expected to begin in the first
quarter of the third year.
2.18     Organization. Management and Implementation Agencies.
Responsibility for project execution was shared by two agencies, namely
LMHC and SRC.  The LMMC (para 2.19) was established by the Government
shortly before project appraisal. It was the first attempt to entrust the
marketing of livestock and meat in Sudan with a single administrative unit.
SRC (para 2.22) was the existing administrative agency for railway
transport under the Ministry of Transport and it had resDonsibility for
establishing overall transportation policy. The interr- -ion between
these two agencies represented a crucial issue in projc. implementation
and much attention was devoted during preparation, appraisal and later on,
during supervision, to ensuring smooth coordination between the marketing
and transport components.
2.19     LMMC was set up in 1976 as the national institution responsible
for the development and regulation of the livestock and meat marketing
sectors in Sudan. The most important activity assigned to LMMC during its
first six years of operation was the implementation of the IDA assisted
Livestock Marketing Project. The agency is headed by a Director General,
responsible to a Board of Directors where the Ministries of Finance and
National Economy, Trade and supplies, Transport and Communications, and
Agriculture Food and Natural Resources are represented. The Livestock
Breeders and the Butchers' unions are also represented, as well as the
Livestock and Meat Traders and Exporters Board. At full development, LMMC
was expected to employ a staff of some 665 persons, more than two-thirds of
which would be stationed in the field, mainly in Western Sudan.
2.20     The Project was intended to assist the Corporation with the
initial phase of its development. In effect it had two main objectives.
The first was to assist the newly-formed LMMC to develop the facilities,
organization and structure necessary for it to operate effectively. The
second was to improve marketing infrastructure. These improvements were
intended to facilitate the movement of livestock from the production areas
in the west to Khartoum for local consumption or for export. Charges for
these services were expected to be fixed at levels which would enable the
Corporation to operate and develop effectively without incurring losses.
Infrastructural improvements were to be of two kinds, those associated with
the provision of new, specialized rail transport services for livestock and
those concerned with the development of better livestock market facilities.
In addition to operating these services, the Corporation was to licence and
control exporters and exports and eventually develop other regulatory
functions in the livestock and meat sectors. A program of technical
assistance and staff training to support the LMMC was a further important
component of the project.
2.21     LMMC was given responsibility for (a) assuming control of all
markets improved or constructed under the project and gradually taking over
control of all other markets; (b) formulating and coordinating domestic and
export market policies for meat and livestock; (c) setting and collecting
market fees; and (d) establishing a block train service to transport



- 10 -
livestock. To achieve the latter purpose, LMMC would lease equipment
purchased under the project from SRC, as well as leasing some of SRC's
existing equipment. In addition, LMNC would issue export permits for
livestock, collect registration fees and yard fees, as well as transport
fees established jointly with SRC for livestock transported in the block
trains.
2.22     SRC was the agency responsible for operating all railways in
Sudan. It was entrusted with the procurement, operation and maintenance of
the livestock block trains which, however, were under the administration of
LMMC. The monthly rental fee charged by SRC for use of the equipment
included a fixed charge based on an allowance for capital recovery and a
variable charge based on projected operating and maintenance costs. The
resulting transport costs were anticipated to be substantially higher than
those charged by SRC at the time of appraisal and a gradual adjustment of
these rates was expected throughout project implementation so that SRC
rates would reach, no later than June 30, 1981, levels corresponding to
those charged by LHMC for livestock transport under the project.
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION PERFORMANCE
Overview
3.01     After a delayed start due mainly to procedural difficulties, the
Livestock Marketing and Transport activities finally got underway.
Although the Project Completion Date was ultimately moved two years beyond
appraisal estimates, this delay did not seriously affect project
implementation. It was largely caused by delays in project effectiveness
and slow procurement procedures. Cumbersome procurement procedures were
responsible for a serious delay in the procurement of locomotive spare
parts and railway equipment towards the end of the project period. The
project was declared effective in July 1979 after more than a year had
lapsed since the June 16, 1978 Credit signing date.
3.02     The main project objectives were achieved, particularly its
institution building ones. In spite of the expected managerial and inter-
agency difficulties foreseen throughout project preparation and appraisal,
the LMMC (para 2.19) and the SRC (para 2.22), the main executing agencies,
have emerged stronger and more efficient, in no small measure because of
their involvement in the project. The financial impact on both agencies,
particularly on LMMC, has been highly positive. The impact on the number
of animals transported and exported is impressive and in addition, the
expected increase in value and avoidance of weight loss in export animals
was successfully achieved.
3.03     The construction of LMMC headquarters was carried out
satisfactorily in terms of quality and schedule and although delays were
experienced in the construction of livestock yards, which were mainly due
to management inexperience, procurement difficulties and inadequate
supervision, they were eventually constructed satisfactorily and
successfully complement the operation of the block trains.



- 11 -
3.04     One unforeseen constraint in achieving the levels of livestock
transported as estimated at appraisal was the drought of 1984185 which
affected the Western provinces during a considerable portion of the project
implementation period. This had an impact on the numbers of animals
exported, but even under these conditions the trend towards increasing
cattle and sheep exports was maintained, although the number of sheep
exported was depressed by the drought and the temporary ban on exports in
1986.
3.05     Finally, one important impact of the project, with long-term
positive results, was the influence which LMMC was able to exert on
national livestock policies. Examples include the elimination of a 25Z
export tax on livestock exported on the hoof and use of a higher, more
realistic, commercial exchange rate to convert export earnings to local
currency which benefitted livestock exporters. At the same time, livestock
exporters were allowed to retain their export earning8  in foreign exchange.
Livestock MarketinR
3.06     The project has been successful in its marketing objectives as
indicated by livestock throughput (Table 4). In spite of delays
experienced in project implementation, including late project
effectiveness, managerial difficulties and delayed construction, the
appraisal estimates of 1,160,000 sheep and 200,000 cattle throughput by
1984 were surpassed although the project had not yet reached full
development. Average cattle throughput for virtually all years was more
than double appraisal expectations and sheep throughput exceeded
expectations.
3.07     By July 1981 LMMC was operating 10 markets and no additional
markets were taken over.  Total throughput of sheep in LMMC-operated
markets rose from 746 thousand head in 1981 to 1.85 million in 1985 and
fell back to 1.32 million in 1986 (Table 4). Part of the increase which
occurred between 1981 and 1982 resulted from the takeover of two markets in
1981. However, the increase in other years represent genuine improvements
in market throughputs. Considerable distortions were caused by the
drought. Initially, as feed became scarce and expensive, more sheep and
cattle were offered for sale and prices fell sharply. This was especially
the case in the production areas of the west because of the difficulty in
moving livestock to the major consumption areas in the Nile Valley In
addition many animals died of hunger in the west. Later, when tne drought
eased, offtakes of animals for sale in the production areas were reduced
because of the smaller populations and because livestock was being retained
in order to rebuild flocks and herds. In fact, at one stage early in 1986
cattle prices were higher in some western markets than in Omdurman itself.
However, bearing in mind the fact that the appraisa. estimates also include
throughputs in 30 primary markets in the west while the LMKC data only
covers terminal and secondary markets, actual throughputs were well in
excess of appraisal estimates. Throughput (sales) of cattle rose every
year over the 6 year period 1981-1986, from 263 thousand head to 505
thousand.



- 12 -
Livestock Exports
3.08     While the numbers of sheep and cattle exported during the project
implementation period differ from those reported b, LMMC and figures
obtained from the Foreign Trade Statistics of the Bank of Sudan, the
differences are not significant and the trend towards increased exports
from fiscal years 1975 to 1983 when they peaked, is similar for both
estimates. wxports of both sheep and cattle substantially exceeded
appraisal estimates until 1986 when exports were temporarily banned (para
1.11). Sheep exports were probably reduced somewhat in 1984 and 85 because
of the drought (Table 5).
Livestock Transport
3.09     Transport on block trains was delayed by one year after the
appraisal estimate but was finally operated by LMKC from November 1982
onwards. The number of cattle transported increased rapidly from 1983 to
1985 from about 14,000 to about 45,000 head and exceeded appraisal
expectations if the one year lag in commencing operations is taken into
account (Table 6). The number of sheep transported exceeded appraisal
expectations up to 198V but the number dropped substantially in 1985 and
dramatically in 1986 due to the temporary ban on exports.
3.10     Sheep traffic began to decline after 1984, in part due to the
effect of the 1984/85 drought, but also as a result of reduced block train
operations. Lack of spare parts and overuse of project locomotives by the
SRC were major causes for this reduction. It should be noted, however,
that in spite of these difficulties, the number of cattle transported
exceeded appraisal estimates in 1985 (para 3.09). This clearly indicates a
strong demand for livestock railway transport even under difficult
circumstances.
3.11     During 1984, before the drought became particularly serious and
affected development, 104 trains were operated (not shown in Table 6). Of
these, 34 were from the west to Khartoum (17 from Nyala, 13 from El Obeid
and 4 from intermediate stations). As a result, about 69,000 head of sheep
and 13,000 head of cattle were moved to Khartoum, mainly for export. The
remaining 70 trains were operated from Khartoum to Port Sudan and carried
355,000 head of sheep (642 of exports) and 12,000 head of cattle (38S of
exports). Total receipts were LSd 3.3 million, of which LSd 2.3 were from
operating the Khartoum to Port Sudan route.
3.12     Over the first three complete years of block train operation, some
22? of sheep and 34? of cattle transported by rail were carried during the
April-June quarter, a period when trekking is impossible and animals are
extremely difficult to move. There is some evidence of a reduction in
livestock price variation in Omdurman market after the beginning of railway
service operation, but it is not conclusive and the situation is
complicated by the effects of the drought. The export ban has seriously
affected LMMC railway transport service revenue since September 1986.
Income from the Khartoum to Port Sudan route has been particularly badly
affected.
3.13     Over the period of the drought and famine, the project railway
rolling stock played a very important part not only !a transporting animals
from the west, which would otherwise have been lost, but also in



- 13 -
distributing food aid to Darfur and Kordofan. In tot&l, some 39 thousand
tonnes of food were backloaded, about half in 1985. Of these, 27 thousand
tonnes were sent to Nyala from Khartoum or Kosti and three thousand tonnes
to El Obeid. Some nine thousand tonnes were carried from Port Sudan to
Khartoum. Cereals were the main component but significant quantities of
sugar, cooking oil and salt were also transported.
3.14     LMMC's performance in establishing and st'-ministrating the
livestock transport activities has been highly Cv  tended by supervision
missions as well as being supported by good finanL.al results, which have
been consistently profitable.
Institution Developmant
3.15     At the onset of the project, a new institution, LMKC (para 2.22),
had been established and was in the process of structural organization and
staffing. The other executing agency, the SRC (para 2.2?;, although
already responsible for the operation of all Sudanese railroads and
equipment, needed managerial strengthening and was not fully convinced of
the practicality of operating a livestock transport system jointly with
LI4MC. At the beginning of the project, six resident advisers, covering
livestock marketing organization and management, livestock railway
transport, administration and accounts and livestock and meat marketing
economics, were put in post. The number of advisors was gradually reduced
as LMMC expertise developed. The resident advisers were supported by some
twenty short term visits from specialist advisers and consultants.
3.16     LMMC has developed into an organization which is considered to be
outstanding in its financial management among Sudanese parastatals. The
quality of its organization and management have been internationally
recognized as indicated by LMKC's winning of two awards, the African Award 2
and the Arab Trophy. 3 Successful management is also indicated by LMKC's
implementation of efficient accounting and internal auditing systems and
classification of accounts, the establishment of cost responsibilities and
the attention paid to defining responsibilities and controlling costs.
Further proof of the agency's development and performance is found in its
consistent profitability even during periods when serious constraints to
livestock trading prevailed (Table 7).
3.17     The training component has been an important factor in the
successful achievement of LMMC's institution building objectives. Although
in the early stages of implementation, the time and effort spent on
training staff may have been a factor in the delays experienced in
initiating project activities, this was eventually more than compensated
for by the impact of training on the agency's managerial capabilities.
During the project period, over forty LMMC staff vis ted the United Kingdom
to take up training grants awarded by the British Council and funded by the
2f The African Award was given to LMMC in 1984 for outstanding marketing
services amongst African countries.
3/ The Arab Trophy was given to LMMC in 1984 for outstanding marketing
services amongst Arab countries.



- 14 -
ODA. Training was provided in a wide range of subjects includings senior
management techniques; management of livestock markets; meat production and
processing; accountancy and agriculture extension. Means of training
ranged from formal courses in training institutions, usually leading to a
recognized post-graduate degree or diploma, to courses specially arranged
to meet the needs of individuals with marketing or industrial
organizations.
3.18     The project's positive impact on strengthening the capabilities of
SRC while less evident than in the case of LMMC, should not be ignored,
although modifying an existing well established management approach to
operational and administrative problems is not an easy task at the best of
times. The number of staff and range of technical assistance provided to
SRC was much less than that provided to LMKC. Furthermore, the difficult
task of establishing workable agreements betwsen SRC and LMMC consumed
valuable time and energy that would have been better spent on improving
SRC's management style and procedures. The fact that such agreements were
reached in spite of difficulties, and that the livestock transport
component remained operational while tough discussions on leases and
charges were in progress, is a clear reflection of SRC's increasing
appreciation of the value of collaboration with LMMC.
3.19     Difficulties experienced in constructing railway yards and delays
in procuring locomotive spare parts and equipment indicate that despite
improvements, SRC managerial weaknesses have not been fully resolved.
These had a negative effect on project implementation. Nevertheless, in
the later stages of the project, there were encouraging signs that these
problems were gradually being rectified.
3.20     While there is still ample room to improve the performance of both
implementing agencies and it is not clear that they will be able to
maintain their relatively good performance after the technical assistance
is withdrawn, institution building objectives of the project were achieved
to a substantial degree in each agency. The impact of combining technical
assistance and training on institutional performance was impressive and
noteworthy.
Consultants and Training
3.21     Consultants, financed by ODA and IDA to strengthen LMMC
management, performed exceptionally well. They were a significant factor
in developing LMKC's capabilities to undertake its assigned activities and
in enabling SRC to operate block trains. In addition to resident longer
term expatriate staff, ODA provided short term backstopping technical staff
who visited the project regularly to review implementation and advise both
Sudanese and expatriate staff on operations. Sudanese senior managers had
full responsibility for controlling, managing and monitoring the
performance of all consultants.
3.22     A trainiri  program prepared at the start of the project was
successfully implemented. This program included overseas short term
training for senior and middle management staff and local training for
technical staff. The expatriate staff organized local training for market
officers in record keeping, grading of livestock and classification of



- 15 -
meat. In addition, local staff were trained in the management of a
computerized information system. Tne impact of the training program was
most valuable because it enabled LMMC to base its management decisions on
up-to-date information.
Project Costs
3.23     The estimated project cost was US$37.9 million or about 752 of the
cost estimated at appraisal. The lower cost was due to agreed non-
implementation or modification of some components - the construction of
fewer secondary markets (9 out of 11), Livestock Marketing offices (2 out
of 12). railway yards (8 out of 10) and the omission of 30 primary markets
included at appraisal. Actual prices for locomotives and wagons were also
lower than appraisal estimates. Lower costs were partly the effect of
frequent devaluations of the Sudanese currency associated with the
comparatively high rate of inflation in Sudan over the project period.
Financing
3.24     The project was jointly financed by IDA (US$23.5 million), ODA
(US$2.9 million) and GOS (US$11.5 million). IDA was the main external
donor, funding infrastructural improvements aitd ODA funded the necessary
technical assistance and training on a grant aid basis. The GOS amount
includes US$6.0 million equivalent of duties and taxes. These form part of
the local costs. However, in practice, no actual tax payments were made on
project imports because they were exempted from taxation. Disbursement
categories, amounts and appraisal estimates are given in Table 3.
Procurement
3.25     Managerial iaadequacies were responsible for delays in
implementing civil works and the procurement of equipment and spare parts.
Cumbersome customs procedures were a further cause of delay in the
procurement of imported items. Delayed credit effectiveness, due to the
existence of complex official procedures, were responsible for a ten-month
lag in project implementation. Cumbersome customs procedures delayed
procurement by an additional five months. The construction of livestock
markets by local contractors was delayed by problems associated with the
supply and transport of construction materials. Construction of livestock
marketing offices and staff houses in remote areas was delayed by
difficulties in finding suitable local contractors. Livestock watering
facilities were not provided at a few markets because underground water was
not found at those sites; this, however, is not surprising because drilling
for water in Sudan is a relatively risky business. Despite these problems
it is worth noting that the construction, by contract, of the LMMC
headquarters in Khartoum was completed in less than one year, much faster
than anticipated.



- 16 -
IV. BENEFITS, FINANCIiL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Benefits
4.01     Despite the difficulties that existed between LUW and SIC in the
operation of block trains for livestock transport and the subsequent delays
it the construction of associated livestock infrastructures, the project
was responsible for a substantial increase in the number of livestock
transported, marketed and exported (Tables 4, 5 and 6). Block trains
contributed greatly to increasing the number of livestock exported,
particularly sheep numbers to Saudi Arabia. Actual livestock exports were
higher than appraisal estimates. Under the project, a total of about 3.3
million sheep were exported between 1981 and 1986 compared with an
estimated 2.9 million at appraisal (a 142 increase). During the same
period, 133,000 cattle were exported compared with 111,000 estimated at
appraisal (a 202 increase). Other major project benefits included a
reduction in weight loss and maintenance costs of livestock transported by
block trains to Khartoum and Port Sudan. The coefficients used for savings
in trekking times and liveweight when animals are transported by train are
the same as those used in the SAR Annex 11. On average there is a saving
of about 122 in liveweight for cattle and 102 for sheep with a range of
0-182 depending on the time of the year when animals are trekked.
Financial Performance of LMMC
4.02     LbIMC revenue is mainly derived from market fees, payments for
export permits, and rental payments for block trains. The main operating
costs include expenditures on livestock markets, headquarter administration
expenses and payments to Sudan Railways for operating block trains. Over
the project period (1981 to 1986), LMMC made large gross profits (Table 7).
LHMC accounts provide a monthly breakdown of revenue and expenditure for
each market and by each operation. This type of information enables
management to monitor the performance of each profit center and provide
remedial support promptly. Despite delays in reaching agreement on SRC
charges for the rental and operation of livestock trains, LMMC was able to
pay off accumulated debts of LSd two million for the first two years
operai.ion of the block trains once agreement was reached. It is also worth
noting that LhMC is one of the few public corporations in the Sudan that
has been self-financing since establishment. It has a sound financial base
which is supported by an adequate financial and accounting system
established under the project.
Economic Analysis
4.03     Project benefits accrue from a reduction in weight lose assuciated
with trekking livestock, an increase in live animals and beef exports as
well as savings in the cost of maintaining livestock prior to marketing.
Incremental beef was valued in 1986 constant prices using adjusted World
Bank commodity price projections. Sheep and/or mutton was valued on the
basis of import prices in Saudi Arabia which is the main market for
Sudanese sheep. These export parity prices were adjusted for local
handling and transport. Cost savings on livestock maintenance are baned on
the assumption that without the project, livestock trekking would continue
from the producing areas to Khartoum. The project would reduce the holding
and feeding time of about two months required to condition animals for the
Omdurman/Khartoum market. In addition local costs were adjusted by a
factor of 0.6 to convert to border prices. It was assumed that mutton
prices would remain constant over the remainder of the project's life. All



- 17 -
costs are net of taxes and subsidies and imported items were valued at the
prevailing official exchange rate at the time of importation.
4.04     For the projected years (1987-2000), conservative estimates of
project benefits were used in the analysis. For this period, project
operating costs and benefits were based on figures for 1984 (pre-drought
period) whieh were projected to remain constant for the remainder of the
project. These projections take into account livestock exports,
utilization of block trains for livestock transport, and projected
throughputs for markets. Although block train capacity to transport
livestock has increased with the purchase of an additional 31 wagons in
1986 the additional capacity was not taken into account when estimating
future benefits because of the conservative approach adopted. It was
assumed that substantial purchases of locomotive spare parts in 1986 would
enable block trains to maintain existing capacity in operation throughout
the remaining life of the project. Based on the above assumptions, the
project's economic rate of return was estimated at 402 (Table 8) compared
with 152 at appraisal. The high rate of return is mainly attributable to a
substantial increase in the number of animals exported and much higher
livestock prices than those projected at appraisal.
Imact on Livestock Policy
4.05     Although the objective of influencing national policy in regard to
livestock was an indirect one, there can be no doubt that LHMC had a
definite impact on policy during the project implementation period. The
impact was attributable to strong leadership within LMKC and its ability to
analyze the outcome of different policies and bring negative implications
forcefully to the Government's attention. L1MM's influence and
representation played arn important part in the decision to grant a more
favorable exchange rate to livestock exporters in 1980 and eliminate a 252
tax on livestock exported on the hoof (para 3.05). These measures resulted
in an increase in livestock exports which was assisted by a concurrent
devaluation of the Sudanese pound. Although the 1986 temporary ban on
livestock exports was a severe blow to LMMC, the lifting of the ban in
August 1987 was in large measure a consequence of LMMC's effective
representations.
V. ASSESSMENT OF IDA PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
IDA Performance
5.01     The Association, mainly through the preparation of a comprehensive
SAR and supervision missions which addressed implementation issues in a
positive and flexible manner, has contributed significantly to project
achievements and objectives. IDA was quick to accept Government's
proposals for improving livestock transportation and marketing and the need
to establish LMMC for this purpose. Revisions to the project which were
made prior to and during appraisal resulted in a more efficient and better
focussed project.
5.02     With hindsight, although institution building efforts were
evidently successful in strengthening LMKC, they could only be expected to



- 18 -
have a marginal effect on SRC because of the relatively meager resources
allocated to that organization and this resulted in an organizational
imbalance. Supervision efforts during the early 3tages of project
implementation concentrated on the efficient organization of LHHC and
contributed significantly to this objective. At a later stage supervision
missions devoted much effort to achieving agreement between LMMC and SRC on
matters such as railway yard construction and charges for block train
operations. These efforts at mediation proved extremely time consuming.
Nevertheless supervision missions played a commendable role in resolving
several organizational obstacles impeding implementation.
Lessons Learned
5.03     The main lessons learned under the project are as follows:
(a) the project was successful because it filled a major need in
Sudan's livestock transport and marketing systems;
(b) in projects involving transport equipment, early planning and
procurement of spare parts is essential to avoid reductions
and disruptions in rail transport services for livestock;
(c) technical assistance could have been better balanced between
the executing agencies LMKC and SRC even though SRC had been
established for a longer period of time and was fully
operational at the outset of the project (paras 3.18 and
5.02); and
(d) the capability of agencies responsible for constructing
buildings and civil works should be carefully accessed at
appraisal and sufficient technical assistance provided to
ensure timely construction.
5.04     The project rationale, which was based on a perceived demand for
livestock transport and improved marketing facilities, was fully confirmed
by implementation results. Should the Sudanese government succeed in
curtailing I istock smuggling by continuing to adopt enlightened livestock
export policies, results would be even more positive still. Although som
of the difficulties in achieving collaboration between LMKC and SRC might
have been avoided by an earlier appreciation of the potential conflict of
interest, it is likely that better collaboration would, in any event, have
been impeded by the lack of experience with the activities proposed under
the project.



- 19 -
Table 1
PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
SUDAN - UVESTOCK MARKETIN PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
Key Indicatoro L/
Amended                   AOl
Unit    SAR         SAR        Actual        SAR (U)
Cllvl Works
Provincial livestock mrketing office              12         -             2          17
Socondary markets                                 11        11             9          82
Primary market.                                  as           -            -
Railway livestock yards                            8         10            8         ISO
Torminal markeWt                                  2          2             2
Rai l terminal                                     1          -            -         106
UMC headquarter                                   -           1            1
Operations
Volum  of rallway traffic handled (1984)        '696
hed
Cattle                                         so                       2S          a8
sheep                                         412                      424         16s
Market throughput (sales) (1984)       '600
hbws
Cattle                                        200                      428         214
Shep                                          1160                    1244         17
Export (1984)
Cattle                                         19                       82         16l
Sheep                                         482                      625         122
Revenue (1985/86)                       sm
LSd
Market tes                                    198                     116  /       1V l
Export revenue                                554                    l16l          a6n
Block train rvenues                           115                     1967 p/      111
8349                    4744         142
1S SaM key indicators were seriously affected by the 1968t- drought.
T   Including zmscellaneous fes for un of markett  as overnight holding grounds, etc., totalling
LSd 197,900.
!/  Including LMMC revenu from backloading human food for drought ares, LSd 291,W.6



- 20 -
Table 2
PROJECT COMPLETION RZPORT
SUDAN - LImVSTOCK MURRETING PROJECT
tCREDIT NO. 782-SU)
Proiect Cost Suamarv
Appraisal Estimate                Actual 11            Actual  as 2
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    of avpraisal
-       $US$ million ------    ------us$ million------    estimates
Livestock transport            7.0      13.5     20.5       3.7     12.4      16.1          79
Transport infrastructure       5.7       4.0      9.7       2.5      2.4       4.9          51
Market infrastructure          5.8       2.9      8.7       2.4       2.0      4.4          51
I.MC headquarters              7.1       2.2      9.3       5.4      4.2       9.6         103
Technical assistance,
training and studies        0.7       2.4      3.1       0.1      2.8       2.9          94
Total Project Cost            26.3      25.0     51.3      14.1     23.8      37.9          74
11  Taxes and duties. estimated at similar rates to those included in the appraisal. have been
included to ensure comparability.  These form a component of local costs.  In practice.
duties were waived on official project imports.



- 21 -
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US Dollars)
Disbursements by Categories
Appraisal
Category           Description            Amount Disbursed         Estimate
1          Livestock Transport           12,451,904.82          9,500,000
2-A        Transport Infrastructure       1,315,703.34          2,000,000
Construction, Materials
and Equipment
2-B        Transport Infrastructure,      1,328,857.67            600,000
Civil Works
3          Market Infrastructure          1,770,058.97          3,700,000
4          Vehicles and Equipment         1,483,943.69          2,000,000
for LMNC
5-A        Water Supply, Equipiment         377,478.68          1,000,000
5-B        Water S'pply, Civil Yorks          8,202.60            300,000
6-A        LNMC, Livestock and Meat         321,609.00            300,000
Marketing Expert
6-B        LMMC, Buildings                  932,707.51          1,500,000
6-C        LMMC, Operating Costs          3,316,907.51            600,000
7          Refunding of Project             233,979.17            350,000
Unallocated                         -               3.150.000
Total Disbursements          23.541.353.26         25.000.000



PROJECT COMPLElION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PRUJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
LUvsatoec  Throughput tor All Mbrkte
Flsacl Year          1961                 1982                 1988                 1984                 1985                   1968
a eap 11cattle    Shep p-Cattle            h        p Catt    She p      atle   Shp- l            ttl     Shop l-   Cattl-
July           41,0206    1,067   81,271      15,740    28,244     19,518     47,078     19,209    114,649     27,927    216,226    87,781
AupaI          82,906    2S,919   79,176    12,189    76,114       80,918    197,645     47,2M     166,688     89,690   S81,07       4$,718
JS.ptsb.Sr    128,785    42,967   12t,704     86,229   168,189     86,615    116e109     85,928    121,675     87,620    158,92      65,m
O@t.bt         56,6s84    16,179    64,697    23,241   116,060     87,8e6     70,454    86,865   186,979       58,107    148,094     76,585
November      F7,586    27,402  1,6e65    28,6$5    128,791       87,096     70,S6      46,938   ae9,762      so,691     91,696     51,518
Dc_mber       68,780    26,810   104,841      27,6s   164,857      41,818    190,244     46,697    246,686     41,286    112,a1      47,026
Jeauary        72,9568   28,270     7,867     26,519   114,569    48,218    110,641      40,191    186,286     86,76       6,6ee6     7,572
February       52,647    26,291    56,651     19,464    90,890     88,56,    122,619     86,548    122,589     84,162     44,701     86,994
March          51,586    19,596   48,661      20,795    75,66      87,761    124,628      4,402    117,94      40,642     9,206      87,629
Apri           47,196    17,744   47,349      18,621    54,628     29,475    111,211     29,062    129,n7      29,601     i,5,14     81,516
May            89,920    15,186    49,8       16,981    74,s62     28,229    170,560     81,087    118,696      6,614     66,906     24,139
Jun.           87,2      16,65     41,869     1_        46,8457               71.77      21,627    1,97        21,912    0U,120      29,912
TOTAL         745,745   262,628   661,466    278,56 1,147,662    888.962  1,248,e66    428,478  1,865,748    444,216  1,828.496    564,75
Appraisal
Estiw"t       864,90 1/112,M  1                                            1,106,       296,06
Wml as X
ot Appra I as
Estimate                                                                         1a         214
/ SAl estlmt tor 1977.
Source% LkMC MInthly Rporits (_nmbr, sold).
II



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKE    PROJECT
(CREDT NO. M82-)
Sheep end Cattle Expo (191
Fical Veer         1981              12                 16                 1is4                1"5                 1s"
__ _ bSeep --tat  $beep -Cattlo   Sb    -C          ttl   e        etl      on p      ¢l-         e      Ctl*
July         86,8.       26   27,66       2,942   22,1"      1 ,671    4,68      2,482    03,31      1,370    76,185     1,6,
Auuat        28o,39      323    7,465        mn   12,449        M4    23,491      ,438    41,52      3,161    "3,5       1.7W
September    46,232    1,345   71,76?       245   51,76        2a     3s,72T     1,9"     18,812     1,523    27,531     1,35I
OtoberW      46,172      582   33,6481,s I'3   360,0             -     2,00      1,764    86,270       988    55,265      35
November     43,321    2,310   49,314     $,397   76,9           -    54,841     4,21    51,927      I,'      43,60         -
o or         47,289    1,92   6,465       2,696  19,95         76    56,n7       2,393    67,O9      4,0665   59.21      2,81s
Jamary        8,25     1,939   61,81      3,93S  u53,s2      2,466    85,141     8,182    79,931     4,491    54,519      673
February    8#,908       947  315,82      2,55     6,539    2,165    59,405      5,672    49,666     3,86a    15,04C     1,2
March        53,768    2,532   81,856     2,566    57,349    2,457    47,62        96    27,866      2,196    84,826       es
Apr1 1       47,928    8,275   61,721     2,88    58,56      1823    62,220      2,094    56,8.7     1,565    S,977         -
My           43,571    8,983   43,779         6   S6,198       see   76,826      1,540    05,834     1,i29    41,21         -
June         43,m      2,35    4386S      1,5.   52,87       1,267     6,689     2,658    68,067     2,494    59,492     1,012
TOTAL       597,124   21,7W  53,751    265,4   926,565    18,368   2S,921    81,661   612,186    23,593   49,162    12,1W5
Appraisal
EtImtoe     294,066    14,606   339,00   18,9W   363,666    17,006   482,006    19,666   435,666    21,666  1,M,U       24,9         w
Actual   S e
of App1aial
Estimate        172      156      154       10       104        79       122      16        126       180       s6        52
Sources LMMC Monthly Reports.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-S)
Block Train Traffic
Fiscal Yer                                    1988                1984                 1961                1996
Sheep-Cbttl*        Sheep-l~~Cattl- e,l**l                   Shnnp-Tattile
July                                                         40,026       628    26,9Q8       610     9,610       687
Auust                                                        81,249    1,891    22,828    1,991       8,600         -
September                                                    19,581       738    24,56A    6,68e       2,727        -
October                                                      14,828    1,022    82,961    7,868    21,416           -
November                                 10,642         -    17,819    S,981    84,520    4,216    11,791         100
DOcember                                 29,119    1,161    1,762    1,642    64,227    8,979    17,045    1,230
January                                  88,os6    1,676    41,696    2,251    86,484    4,845    21,464          692
February                                 41,588       986    42,7a4    1,641    30,095    2,269       9,e63       670
Mrbch                                    84,81    2,889    46,485    8,186    10,589    8,057    15,898    2,146
Apr) I                                    8,698    4,174    68,991    4,105    88,658    8,619    10,665    1,716
May                                      60,488    2,657    69,448    2,225    14,729    4,617        4,185    2,82,
June                                     88,279       818    29,809    2,2U5    16,666    1,516    11,875    2,079
TOTAL                                   274,640   18,756   424,172   25,182   849,628   44,869   189,636   11,616
Appralil Estimate  194,000   14,09    279,600    20,90    412,699   30,00   547,60    40,00    726.099   54,000
Actual as X of
Appraisal Estlmte         -        -        192       89        18         84        64       112        19        21
Source: LC MYbMnthly Reports.
t'4



- 25 -
Table 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN - LIVESTOCK MAIKE?ING PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 782-SU)
LMMC Financial Perfonmance Summary For All Markets and Headquarters
(LSD)
Gross
Financial Year            Revenue 1/  Expenditure 2/ Profit/Loss  Profit/Loss 31
1979/80                    666,795         416,246       250,549       37,337
1980/81                    907,414         563,310       344,104       60,991
1981/82                    979,434        939,337         40,097       19,743
1982/83                  3,757,306      3,399,606        357,700       61,273
1983184                  5,954,950       4,724,166     1,230,784      246,303
1.7.84 to 24.9.84 41     1,013,978         931,422     2,953,884      517,754
25.9.84 to 14.9.85 5/    8,042,450      5,088,566      2,953,884      517,754
15.9.85 to 30.6.86 4t    4.388.619      3,678.1Z7        710.292      127.626
TOTAL                   25.710.946     19.740.980      5,969.966     1.088.799
-. Revenues from market fees, sale of export permits, livestock transport
on block trains and other miscellaneous items.
Including market and headquarters expenses and payments to SRC for
block train operations but excluding depreciation, corporation taxes
and certain minor items.
3/ Gross profit less depreciation and corporation taxes.
4/ Transitional accounting period.
5/ Higra accounting year 1405.



PROJECT COWPLETON REPORT
SUAN - UVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 782-SU
Econezlc Ansalsal
Tr inTo-na Lau;
1986    196k  1062  1068    1984   loS       106       1987      1088      1909  1990-1994 1996-2061
BENEFIT
UT LOSS SAVING
G^Tl ot                           -       -          -    1275.7  1967.8  4664.0    1723.0   1617.1   18S2.7   8758.7   8968.2  4116.8
SNEEP                             -       -          -    92a.7   929.E4   8196.1    8596.9  204S8.2  28127.9  24229.2  25467.6 26481.9
MAINTENANCE COST SAVINC
CiTTLt                            -       -          -      446.6   806.0  1487.1       869.6    868.6    86ee.6    6.0    8..0   616.
SHEEP                             -       -          -    1759.8  2719.9  2241.1        891.2   2241.1   2241.1   2241.1   2241.1  2241.1
TOTAL BENEFITS                    -       -          -   12892.8  14961.2  16502.8    e668.5  25116.2  286.8         1 1636.8  82563.9 88506.1
INESTMENT AND OPERATIN  COSTS                                                           °N
- VtZIu   IKWN6PUR                -       -       7451.9   192.7       -       -       8158.9       -         -        -         -        -
TRAWSPORT INFRASTRucTIME        121.5   648.4    1424.6    06.8   124.2   258.5    86s9.6           -        -         -         -        -
MARKET INFRASTRUCTLRE            -      261.1      169.0   192.7  2142.5  2241.6    2741.8          -        -         -         -       -
HQ UILD=NG                     969.1   482.5       657.5   858.3   745.2    59.9        867.7       -        -         -         -        -
TECHNICAL ASSISTAmNCE            -       18.4    1815.0 6   70.6   442.4   627.6        2ee.6       -        -         -         -        -
SALARIES AND WAGES             8s4.s   461.4       518.6   779.0   86N.7   884.0    1169.0   1169.9   1169.6   1l1e.6   1169.6  1109.9
BLOCK TRAIN LAND OTHER OPER     189.8   192.1      265.8  1918.5  2988.2  2253.5    2169.7   2996.e   295.06. 9.    299.6  2995.
VEHICLE AND MACH OPER            12.2     5.2      115.7   127.8   181.2   229.4        252.8    252.8    252.8    252.8    252.8   252.8
SPAR£S                          159.6   17.4    4554.2   166.0   440.2  1404.9    4ss7.8  6586.9   538s.9   5868.9   5868.0   684e.9
TOTAL COSTS                    1866.4  2170.5   16812.4  45.6  7765.0 6      1992.9   110181.    9720.2   9726.2   9720.2   9726.2  9720.6
NET INCREMENTAL SENEFI
TOTAL INCRMVENTAL NET 8ENEFIIS  1860.4  2170.5   16412.4  9696.8  7196.6  8899.4  -11660.9  16898.6  18818.1  2181.6  2279.7   8 .9
ECNOMIC RATE OF RETt.I a 40.0fl
M
O0



