Report No. 1726-SU
Livestock Marketing Project    FILE COPY
Appraisal Repor Volume I
February 24, 1978
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Documnent of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distuibution and may be used by recipients
oi-lv in U.e rertoirnance of their officiai duties. Its co;ntts mnal not
otherwise be disclosed withouL VWorld 3anib authorizatiun.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Sudanese Pound (LSd);
1 LSd - 100 piastres (pt)
US$2.50 1/                 =     LSd 1.00
US$1.00                    -     LSd 0.40
US$2.5 million             -     LSd 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)             *     10,000 m2 _ 2.47 acre (ac)
I feddan (fed)             -     1.04 ac   - 0.42 ha
1 ha                       -                  2.38 fed
I ha                   2         1.67 makhomas
I square kilometer (km ) -       100 ha
1 kilometer                -     1,000 meters (m)
ABBREVIATIONS
DG                          Director General
LNMC                        Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation
ODM                         Ministry of Overseas Development,
United Kingdom
P-LMO                       Provincial Livestock Marketing
Officer
RMEA                        Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
(World Bank)
RTC                         River Transport Corporation
SRC                         Sudan Railways Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The effective parity relationship for the US dollar is LSd I -
US$2.87156. An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 - US$2.50 is applied
to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from
exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 -
US$2.871 continues to apply, as a result of the application of exchange
taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per US dollar (i.e. 15%) to the
rate of LSd I - US$2.87.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSION  ......................                       .    ......         i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..................... ...*.**.*..*..*.*...*.*.*.*..*.*.*.*.*.*.*.               1
II.    BACKGROUND  to..........  o..... ...................................                         2
A.    The Agriculture Sector ................                ............             2
B.    Livestock and the Economy  ...                   ......................         2
C.    The Transport  Sector  ...                                   ........ .         6
III.  THE PROJECT  ............o.. ..  ............                   .. ..... ........             7
A.    General Description  .........................*.*.*.                            7
B.    Detailed  Features  * * * * * ...... *... . . . .   ............. ...... .      8
C.    Project Costs  .........              ... .....................................  13
D.    Financing              .......... ......               o ................................  14
E.    Procurement  ..          .     ........ . .*. ....... a..... . .....           15
F.    Disbursement  . ...... .0.0.0 .....  0....................                     15
G.    Accounts  and Audit  ....* ..... .. .   ..................... .                16
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . ....... o........ ... .........                               16
A.    Livestock and Meat Marketing  Corporation                       ..........     16
B.    Sudan Railways  Corporation   ...................a....                         18
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS,  MARKETS AND PRICES,  AND FINANCIAL
BENEFITS  too............................. o.... .o..... ...... oo  ..... o. .oos        19
A.    Project Benefits  ...............a                 ..... ....to....            19
B.    Markets and Prices  ..................          ................ ..            19
C.    Financial  Benefits           ........ .....    .................*.            21
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .......o..o .......... ..                               23
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .too....... o..............                           25
SCHEDULE A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES                                                                       VOLUME
1.   Livestock Marketing                                                       II 1/
Table 1 - Number of Livestock by Province
Figure 1.1 - Marketing Flows of Livestock in the
Producing Areas
2.   Railway Transport of Livestock                                            II
Appendix 1 - Basic Assumptions Used in the Calculation of
Railway Operating Costs
Table 1 - Projection of Livestock Traffic Railed by LMMC:
Actual Estimated Traffic and Full Capacity
Table 2 - Projection of Livestock Traffic Railed by LMMC:
Wagons Loaded at Each Station
Table 3 - Projected Seasonality of LMMC Rail Traffic
3.   Project Market and Transport Infrastructure                               II
Table 1 - Secondary and Terminal Markets - Market Capacities
Figure 3.1 - Livestock Flows - Khartoum Market
Figure 3.2 - Livestock Flows - Soba Railway terminal
Charts - Primary Market (World Bank 17705)
- Secondary Market - El Obeid (World Bank 17708)
- Khartoum Terminal Market (World Bank 17695)
- Railway Holding Yard - El Obeid (World Bank 17708)
- Railway Transit Yard - Er Rahad (World Bank 17706)
- Soba Railway Terminal Yard (World Bank 17707)
4.   Project Costs
Table  1 - Project Cost Summary
Table  2 - Project Cost Including Contingencies                    II
Table 3 - Railway Transport
Table 4 - Transport Infrastructure - Summary
Table 5 - Transport Infrastructure - Aweil Railway
Holding Yard
Table 6 - Transport Infrastructure - Babanusa Railway
Holding Yard
Table 7 - Transport Infrastructure - Ed Da'ein Railway
Holding Yard
Table 8 - Transport Infrastructure - El Obeid Railway
Holding Yard
Table 9 - Transport Infrastructure - Meiram Railway
Holding Yard
Table 10- Transport Infrastructure - Nyala Railway
Holding Yard
1/   Volume II will not be circulated but will be available on request
from the Eastern Africa, Northern Agriculture Division.



-3-
ANNEXES                                                                      VOLUME
Table 11 - Transport Infrastructure - Er Rahad, Kosti and
Sennar Railway Transit Yards
Table 12 - Transport Infrastructure - Soba Railway
Terminal Yard
Table 13 - Market Infrastructure - Summary
Table 14 - Market Infrastructure - Terminal Markets - Summary
Table 15 - Market Infrastructure - Khartoum Terminal Market
Table 16 - Market Infrastructure - Soba Terminal Market
Table 17 - Market Infrastructure - Secondary Markets - Summary
Table 18 - Market Infrastructure - Aweil Secondary Market
Table 19 - Market Infrastructure - Babanusa Secondary Market
Table 20 - Market Infrastructure - El Da'ein Secondary Market
Table 21 - Market Infrastructure - El Fasher Secondary Market
Table 22 - Market Infrastructure - El Obeid Secondary Market
Table 23 - Market Infrastructure - Kadugli Secondary Market
Table 24 - Market Infrastructure - Kosti Secondary Market
Table 25 - Market Infrastructure - Meiram Secondary Market
Table 26 - Market Infrastructure - Nyala Secondary Market
Table 27 - Market Infrastructure - Sennar Secondary Market
Table 28 - Market Infrastructure - Wad Medani Secondary Market
Table 29 - Market Infrastructure - Thirty Primary Markets
Table 30 - LIMC Headquarters - Capital and Operating Costs
Table 31 - LMMC Headquarters - Staff Operating Costs
Table 32 - Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
5.   Disbursement and Project Implementation                               I
Table 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Chart - Project Implementation Schedule (World Bank 17693)
6.   Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC)                       I
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference for Internationally            II
Recruited Staff
Appendix 2 - Training Program for Senior LMMC Staff
Appendix 3 - Livestock and Meat Marketing Studies
Appendix 4 - Order of Establishment for LMMC
Charts - LMMC Organization (World Bank 17620)                   I
- LMMC Communications (World Bank 17682)                II
7.   Markets and Prices                                                  II
Table 1 - Recorded Export of Livestock and Chilled
Meat by Main Importing Countries



ANNEXES                                                                       VOLUME
Table 2  -  Surplus of Cattle and Sheep and the Flow of
Trade Estimate for Base Year 1977
Table 3  -  Projections of Cattle and Sheep Surpluses
from Six Western Provinces and Demand for
Rail Transport
Table 4  -  Projection of Provincial Surplus of
Cattle and Sheep Destined for Consumption,
Fattening/Processing for Export and Live
Export and the Resulting Demand for Rail
Transport
Appendix 1 - An Estimate of Inter-Provincial Market Flows
and National Export Potential
Table 1    - Inter-Provincial Market Flows and National
Export Potential
Table 2    - Estimated Population of Townships not
Included in Aerial Survey
8.   Financial Benefits of Railing vs Trekking                            II
Table 1     -  Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Sheep
Table 2     -  Costs and Benefits of Railing vs Trekking Cattle
9.   Financial Analysis                                                    I
Appendix  1 -  LMMC Financial Assumptions                            II
Appendix  2 -  SRC Financial Assumptions with Project
Appendix  3 -  SRC Financial Assumptions without Project
Table  I    -  Operating Assumptions to Financial Projections         I
Table  2    -  LMMC Projection of Marketing Revenue
Table  3    -  LMMC Railway Transport of Livestock, Pro-forma
Profit and Loss Statement
Table  4    -  LMMC - Railway Transport of Livestock, Pro-forma
Cash Flow
Table  5    -  LMMC - Pro-forma Consolidated Profit and Loss
Statement
Table  6    -  LMMC - Pro-forma Consolidated Cash Flow
Table  7    -  SRC Pro-forma Incremental Statement of Profit
and Loss
Table  8    -  SRC Pro-forma Balance Sheet With Project
Table  9    -  SRC - Pro-forma Incremental Cash Flow With
Project
Table 10    -  SRC - Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Table 11    -  SRC - Financial Internal Rate of Return
Table 12    -  SRC - Pro-forma Statement of Profit and Loss
Without Project



-5-
ANNEXES                                                                       VOLUME
Table 13    -  SRC - Pro-forma Balance Sheet Without Project
Table 14    -  SRC - Pro-forma Cash Flow Without Project
Table 15    -  SRC - Comparative Balance Sheets
Table 16    -  SRC - Statement of Profit and Loss
10.   Government Cash Flow                                                   I
11.   Project Benefits and Economic Analysis                                 I
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2 - Cattle Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
Table 3 - Sheep Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
Table 4 - Financial and Economic Prices
Table 5 - Project Effect on Livestock Marketing and Export
12.   Livestock and the Economy                                             II
Appendix I - Proposed Private Sector Investments
MAPS
Stock Routes, IBRD 12986                                                    I
Market and Railway Infrastructure, IBRD 12987                               I






SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The livestock industry is of significant importance to the Sudanese
economy, as it is one of the main sources of food and employment for the
population as well as an important source of foreign exchange. In the past
year the Government of the Sudan has placed particular emphasis on the expan-
sion of total marketed production. Such an expansion would: (i) ease grazing
pressure on the heavily overstocked rangelands; (ii) increase the volume of
meat available for the country's growing population; (iii) allow a significant
expansion of exports of livestock and meat, thus providing the country with
badly needed foreign exchange; and (iv) permit the stratification of the
livestock industry, thus enabling the marketing of higher quality animals and
animal products. In line with this commitment, Government in 1976 established
a Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) to promote and regulate the
marketing of livestock and livestock products; the LMMC was given specific
responsibility for establishing a national policy for the sale of livestock
and meat in both domestic and external markets.
ii.       The Project would represent an initial step in the long term devel-
opment of the Sudan's livestock industry; as such, it would help to relieve
some of the major contraints which have hampered the expansion of national
livestock production. It would over a six year period support the development
of an organized, national livestock marketing system through the establishment
of both market and transport infrastructure and the provision of staff and
supporting services for the LMMC. These investments would permit an increased
marketed offtake, resulting in increased supplies of meat for consumers,
and expanded livestock exports. Specifically the Project would include
provision for: (i) livestock transport including the purchase of locomotives
and wagons for livestock block trains to transport cattle and sheep from
the western producing areas to Khartoum and Port Sudan; (ii) establishment
of railway holding, transit and terminal yards at strategic locations along
the railway which would facilitate the collection of livestock by LMMC in
advance of train departures, allow stock to be rested during the long journey
from the west, and furnish a means of quarantining stock from the moment they
enter the holding yards; (iii) improvement and/or establishment of 11 se-
condary markets, improvement of 30 primary markets, and construction of two
terminal markets near Khartoum; (iv) construction of a headquarters building,
staff salaries, vehicles, equipment and housing for field staff; and (v)
technical assistance, training and studies. The LMMC would have overall
responsibility for the organization and implementation of the Project. It
would be assisted in this task by the Department of Animal Resources, which
would provide veterinary services at the markets and the railway yards. Sudan
Railways Corporation (SRC) would be responsible for the technical operation of
the livestock block trains.



- ii -
iii.      An IDA Credit of US$25.0 million is proposed, which would cover
58% of Project cost net of taxes and duties (US$8.2 million); total Project
cost is estimated at ISd 20.5 million (US$51.3 million). The UK Ministry of
Overseas Development (ODM) has agreed to finance the technical assistance
component of the Project (US$3.1 million) on a grant basis. Government's
contribution (US$15.0 million) and IDA funds for transport infrastructure,
market infrastructure and LMMC headquarters would be channeled directly by
Government to LMMC on an equity basis. Finance for the purchase of locomo-
tives and rolling stock would be channelled from Government to SRC as long
term debt; finance for working capital for the railway operations would be
channeled by Government directly to LMMC on an equity basis. The foreign
exchange cost of the equipment excluding customs (74% of the total cost of
the equipment) would be onlent to SRC for 20 years at 8% p.a. with a five
year grace period. Procurement of locomotives (US$8.4 million), wagons and
vans (US$3.5 million), vehicles (including spare parts) and construction
equipment (US$2.2 million), office furniture and supplies (US$0.5 million),
materials for railway sidings and loading platforms (US$0.8 million), and
livestock pen construction materials (US$1.6 million) in orders over
US$50,000 would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to IDA guidelines; ICB would total an estimated US$17.0 million.
Orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible. The construction of
houses for staff, the LMMC headquarters office and the water supply works for
the markets and railway transport facilities would be subject to local bidding
by local building contractors, the Corporation for Public Buildings and Works
and the Rural Water Corporation under Government procedures, which are accept-
able to IDA. In those cases where the buildings would be in localities so
remote that no reasonable bids would be received, LMMC would request the
Ministry of Construction and Public Works to carry out the construction on a
force account basis. The total amount subject to local competitive bidding or
force account is estimated at about US$3.9 million. Consultants would be
engaged to design and prepare contract documents, assist LMMC in receiving
bids and supervise construction of the LMMC headquarters office in Khartoum.
The procurement of architect/engineering services would be in accordance with
IDA guidelines for professional services.
iv.       At full development (year 7) the Project would have encouraged
livestock producers in the six western provinces in which Project investments
would be concentrated to channel 40,000 more cattle and 420,000 more sheep
annually through the markets (an increase of 130 and 220 percent respec-
tively). Some 48,000 more cattle and 486,000 more sheep would be transported
annually by rail to Khartoum (increases of 1,600 and 380 percent), and 12,000
more cattle and 240,000 more sheep would be transported from Khartoum to
Port Sudan (increases of 100 and 120 percent respectively). Numbers of
cattle exported, live or processed, would increase by 2,000 and 3,000 re-
spectively (an increase of 130 and 600 percent) and numbers of sheep being
exported live or processed would increase by 133,000 and 62,000 respectively
(an increase of 195 and 350 percent).



- iii -
v.        The overall economic rate of return of the Project over 22 years
would be 15%. In this analysis foreign exchange was shat'ow priced at a
rate of ESd I = US$2.00 (compared to the prevailing rate of ESd 1 = US$2.50)
to reflect the economic value of foreign exchange for the economy. All labor
was valued at market prices. All costs excluding taxes and customs duties
were included in the rate of return calculations. The sensitivity of the rate
of return was tested against changes in several parameters. If foreign
exchange were not shadow priced the rate of return would be 12%. If the load
factor on the livestock block trains were reduced by 10% the rate of return
would be 12%; if the load factor were increased by 5% the rate of return would
be 16%. If the cost of fuel and lubricants for the trains were increased by
200%, the rate of return would also be 12%. The rate of return therefore
appears to be relatively insensitive to changes in the basic parameters.
There would, however, be several risks associated with the implementation of
the Project; the most important of these would be that SRC's overall opera-
tional inefficiencies would make it impossible to guarantee a regular and
reliable block train service and that the traders would be reluctant to pay
the higher LMMC fares to ship their livestock by train and would continue to
trek them from the west to Khartoum. There is no question that SRC's willing-
ness to cooperate with LMMC and its ability to ensure the reliability of the
block trains will be the key determinant of the Project's success. SRC has
indicated that it will fully cooperate with the LMMC in the maintenance,
scheduling and operation of the trains, and has signed a contract with LMMC
covering every detail of these mutual responsibilities. It is expected that
by the time the block trains are fully operational, the IDA Fourth Railway
Project should have made significant strides in upgrading SRC's overall
efficiency (particularly its maintenance capability); thus Project trains
should receive a standard of service not possible under present operating
conditions. If LMKC is able to provide a regular and efficient block train
service, the traders should gradually overcome any initial reluctance to make
use of this opportunity. Calculations show that even at the higher rates it
would be financially advantageous to the traders to ship their stock by rail.
It is believed also that the new fattening enterprises will find the trains
attractive since they would ensure regular supplies of feeder stock throughout
the year; these enterprises are expected to eventually become important
customers-of the LMMC.
vi.       This would be the Bank Group's seventh lending operation for agri-
cultural development in the Sudan since 1956. The previous credits have
totalled some US$154 million and include two Mechanized Farming Projects,
two credits for the Rahad Irrigation Project, the Southern Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project, and the Savannah Development Project. After some
delays, implementation of the second Mechanized Farming Project is proceeding
well. The Rahad Project experienced severe cost overruns in its early stages,
which required refinancing of the entire project with the assistance of
other international financing agencies; although implementation was initially
slow, reasonable progress has since then been achieved. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project started slowly, but after some reduction in size is



- iv 
expected to be completed on time. The Savannah Development Project was
approved by IDA in May 1977 and is not yet effective. The Bank Group has
financed six projects in the transportation sector since 1958. These have
included four railway projects, a highway project, and a domestic aviation
project. In addition, a technical assistance credit approved in 1976 provided
assistance for preinvestment work in all sectors including transportation. In
general, physical implementation of the Third Railway Project has been satis-
factory, although some operational targets were not achieved. The Fourth
Railway Project was approved by Bank/IDA in June 1977.
vii.      Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the proposed
Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$25.0 million to the Government
of the Sudan.



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK SARKETING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The livestock industry is of significant importance to the
Sudanese economy, as it is one of the main sources of food and employment
for the population as well as an important source of foreign exchange. In
the past year the Government of the Sudan has placed particular emphasis on
the expansion of total marketed production. Such an expansion would: (i)
ease grazing pressure on the heavily overstocked rangelands; (ii) increase
the volume of meat available for the country's growing population; (iii)
allow a significant expansion of exports of livestock and meat, thus
providing the country with badly needed foreign exchange; and (iv) permit
the stratification of the livestock industry, thus enabling the marketing
of higher quality animals and animal products. In line with this commitment,
Government in 1976 established a Livestock and MIeat Marketing Corporation
(LMMC) to promote and regulate the marketing of livestock and livestock
products; the LMMC was given specific responsibility for establishing a
national policy for the sale of livestock and meat in both domestic and
external markets.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's seventh lending operation for
agricultural development in the Sudan since 1956. The previous credits
have totalled some US$154 million and include two Mechanized Farming
Projects, two credits for the Rahad Irrigation Project, the Southern Region
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, and the Savannah Development Project.
After some initial delays, implementation of the second Mechanized Farming
Project is proceeding well. The Rahad Project experienced severe cost
over-runs in its initial stages, which required refinancing of the entire
project with the assistance of other international financing agencies;
although implementation was initially slow, reasonable progress has since
then been achieved. Due to the remoteness of the area and to the diffi-
culties of attracting staff to the southern Sudan, the Agricultural Rehabi-
litation Project started slowly, but after some reduction in size is
expected to be completed on time. The Savannah Development Project was
approved by IDA in May 1977 and is not yet effective.  The Bank Group has
financed six projects in the transportation sector since 1958. These have
included four railway projects, a highway project, and a domestic aviation
project. In addition, a technical assistance credit approved in 1976
provided assistance for preinvestment work in all sectors including trans-
portation. The railway projects were designed to assist in the moderniza-
tion of the railway system through provision for track improvement, purchase
of locomotives and wagons, expanded maintenance facilities and technical
assistance and training; provision was also included for investment in
river and port facilities. In general, physical implementation of the
Third Railway Project has been satisfactory, although some operational
targets were not achieved. The Fourth Railway Project was approved by
Bank/IDA in June 1977.



-2-
1.03      The proposed Project is based on several proposals prepared for
the Sudan Government over the past two years; the most important of these are
a railway transport/marketing component prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, and a technical assistance project developed by UNDP. Final pre-
paration of the Project was the responsibility of the Livestock and Meat
Marketing Corporation assisted by an FAO consultant and staff seconded from
the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources. This report is based
on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the Sudan in February/
March 1977 comprising P. A. Sihm, S. Capoluongo, J. Maguire, and R. Masthagen
(IDA); and S. Barriger, J. Moller, E. Reusse and T. Root (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01   2  The Sudan, the largest country in Africa, covers about 2.5 mil-
lion km . The population was estimated at about 15.6 million persons in 1975,
and is growing at a rate of 2.2% per year; per capita GNP for 1975 averaged
about US$290. Much of the country is unoccupied or sparsely populated, and
for the most part there is little population pressure on presently developed
land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or semi-desert,
the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural devel-
opment Conservative estimates are that about 36 million ha (85 million
feddans) is suitable for arable crop production, 100 million ha (240 million
feddans) is rangeland and 25 million ha (60 million feddans) is forests. Of
the 10 million ha (26 million feddans) of cultivated land, some 2 million ha
are under irrigation, 2 million ha are under rainfed mechanized farming and
6 million ha are under traditional cultivation. The proximity of the Sudan
to markets in the Middle East places it in a favorable position for agricul-
tural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly come to
consider the Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural imports.
2.02      The agricultural sector dominates the economy, providing the
means of livelihood for around 80% of the population; it contributes about
40% of GDP (16% of which is attributable to livestock), 95% of exports and
over 50% of Government revenues. The value of agricultural exports increased
from ESd 112 million in 1971 to ESd 144.1 million in 1975. Exports of live-
stock range between 6% and 10% of total exports annually. Imports of agri-
cultural products have also been increasing sharply, from ESd 26.3 million in
1971 to ESd 62.1 million in 1975.
B. Livestock and the Economy
2.03      The Sudan has an estimated livestock population of some 15 million
cattle, 16 million sheep, 11 million goats and 2 million camels. These live-
stock are owned principally by pastoralists who inhabit some 60 million ha



of rangeland, with the majority of the remainder being owned by small seden-
tary cultivators. The expansion of modern livestock production has been very
slow. There are a number of small commercial feedlots in the vicinity of
Khartoum which vary from holding areas to intensive fattening operations.
Two state-owned dairy operations have also been established at Kuku and Wad
Medani, and there is one privately owned dairy. The Sudanese Government
has actively encouraged foreign investment in the livestock sub-sector,
and several foreign investors (mainly from the Middle East and usually in
partnership with Government and private investors) have proposed to under-
take substantial investments in the livestock industry in the near future.
These investments will for the most part be concentrated on livestock fat-
tening, finishing and processing operations for export.
Livestock Marketing (Annex 1)
2.04      Marketed Production.  Current marketed offtake is generally agreed
to be about 7% for cattle, 25% for sheep, 25% for goats and 8% for camels.
These offtake rates, and particularly that of cattle, are fairly low as
compared with rates in other developing countries; sale of animals is con-
strained by custom, a high incidence of disease, a shortage of finance,
and a marketing mechanism which cannot respond to expanding opportunities
in an adequate manner. The weakness of the marketing system is one of the
most important constraints on the expansion of total marketed production.
This weakness can be attributed to several factors including: (i) the gen-
eral absence of basic physical infrastructure in most rural markets; (ii)
a lack of organization and control of the trading process; (iii) the ex-
cessive number of middlemen who participate in every sale, thus discour-
aging the producers from entering the markets; (iv) the limited amount of
capital available to the small independent traders; and (v) the difficul-
ties and cost involved in trekking animals the long distances to the urban
markets.
2.05      The Livestock Marketing System.  All marketing of livestock is
financed and organized by the private sector. The system is dominated
by a small number of merchants who through a network of agents, traders
and brokers finance and organize the movement of livestock from the rural
areas to the major consumption centers. This informal network of financial
and personal contacts provides the credit, market information, transport
and a wide range of other services so essential to the functioning of the
market system. Limited access to capital and to credit has ensured that
trading in general has remained in the hands of the larger merchants,
although in recent years there has been some evidence of a growth in the
number of small independent merchants and traders participating in the mar-
keting process. Despite this trend, however, the marketing of livestock
remains very much the preserve of a limited number of well established
merchants.
2.06      Livestock Markets.  There are three types of livestock markets in
the Sudan: primary markets, secondary markets and terminal markets. The
primary markets are located in the smaller and more remote towns in the
livestock producing areas. The markets generally lack even the most basic



-4-
physical infrastructure, and are often no more than open spaces where live-
stock are traded. Stock are brought to the markets by the producers and by
bush traders who visit the pastoralist camps in the outlying areas; markets
may be held weekly, every two weeks, or in remote areas, even once a month.
Almost all sales are arranged by brokers who operate as middlemen between
the sellers and the agents and traders interested in purchasing stock.
Secondary markets are located in the larger towns in the producing areas.
Although many lack adequate facilities, others may have a walled enclosure
with some interior divisions, an office, and on occasion a small covered
stand for buyers and a sales ring. Although some producers visit these
markets, the majority of sales are between the bush traders on the one hand,
and agents and small independent traders on the other. Auction markets have
been tried in several areas, but due to the opposition of the brokers, these
have proven largely unsuccessful. A terminal market is simply a very large
secondary market located in a major urban center; the Omdurman market (para
2.08) is probably the only market in the country which would fall in this
category. All three types of markets are administered by the relevant Pro-
vincial Council, which regulates sales and collects taxes. Despite the large
network of established markets (Map, IBRD 12987) it is estimated that, quite
apart from the direct producer-consumer sales which it is impossible to
regulate, some one-third to one-half of all the animals moving out of the
producing areas do not pass through an official market.
2.07      Movement of Stock.  The difficulty of moving livestock from the
producing areas in the west (mainly Bahr El Ghazal, North and South Darfur
and Kordofan, and White Nile provinces) to the main markets in the east is
undoubtedly the principal constraint on the development of the livestock
sector. At present the great majority of all trade stock are trekked from the
west to Omdurman, and it is estimated that some 150,000 cattle and 400,000
sheep make this trek each year. Most of the movement takes place immediately
after the rains when ample food and water is available; the peak period
of trekking occurs between October and January, when weight losses and mor-
tality are minimal. The stock travel eastward along two broadly defined
stockroutes, located north of the railway (see Map IBRD 12986). The dis-
tance travelled ranges from 900 - 1,400 km, with the animals averaging some
20 km per day. The stockroutes are administered by the Animal Resources
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. A stockroute improvement program
is included in the Six Year Plan; the program would allow for further improve-
ment of the two main stockroutes and the development of additional feeder
routes. The movement of livestock on foot is undoubtedly a fairly low cost
method of transport; it does, however, have several distinct disadvantages.
First, it produces a very pronounced seasonality of supply in the urban
markets, with a consequent impact on retail prices. Second, animals trekked
during the dry season when pasture and water are scarce usually suffer severe
weight losses enroute, necessitating costly reconditioning around Omdurman.
Finally, animal mortality and other losses during the dry season are often
extremely high, particularly for small stock.  These disadvantages have led
the traders to investigate alternative methods of transport, although none of
these have thus far proven to be sufficiently reliable to ensure their wide-
spread adoption. Rail transport is the most efficient means of moving stock
under existing conditions, but the deficiencies of the present service have



precluded all but a limited use of this means of transport. Currently, less
than 5% of the cattle and 20% of the sheep from the western Sudan are trans-
ported to the Omdurman area by train (para 2.12).
2.08      Omdurman Market.  Omdurman is the hub of the livestock marketing
system. Not only does it attract the major share of all marketed livestock,
but it is also the financial and organizational center of the livestock
trade. The large Omdurman merchants provide most of the working capital
for the system in the producing areas, credit for the butchers in the domestic
market, and capital and expertise for finding and supplying markets abroad.
The market is operated by the Municipal Council and is located in the center
of Omdurman near the veterinary station and the municipal abattoir. The
location of the Omdurman market is undoubtedly convenient for both traders
and butchers and geographically well placed in relation to the abattoir, but
the massive and constant movement of animals through the town to the market
presents ever increasing problems, particularly those associated with sanita-
tion and animal disease outbreaks. In spite of its size the market is unable
to handle the large number of transactions which take place each day, and a
considerable number of sales are carried out in the open space around the
market. The Omdurman market will be unable to handle increasing numbers of
livestock, since any physical expansion of these facilities would be impos-
sible; the limited free area around the market is badly needed for the con-
struction of housing for the expanding urban population.
2.09      Exports.  Traditionally, the Sudan has exported reasonably large
numbers of live sheep and lesser numbers of cattle to markets in the Middle
East. In order to encourage exports, in 1972 Government introduced an export
bonus followed by foreign exchange incentives. This led to an export boom in
1973/74 which threatened local market supply. In an effort to stem this drain
on local supplies, Government introduced an export tax neutralizing the
previous bonus, and finally in 1974 resorted to a ban on all exports of cattle
and sheep; the ban was lifted in October 1976, and replaced by a quota on
sheep exports only. The quota allowed exports of 250,000 head of sheep; of
these, 100,000 head could be exported live by traders under special export
permits, 50,000 could be exported by the "special projects" (fattening enter-
prises, etc.) and 100,000 could be exported in the form of meat. The quota
was restricted to sheep, as the high prices offered in the Jeddah market made
such exports an extremely profitable proposition; Government feared that
without these controls, domestic sheep prices would rise substantially,
possibly putting mutton beyond the reach of many urban consumers. Given the
large size of the domestic cattle herd, and less attractive export prices,
Government had little fear that expanded cattle exports would have a cor-
responding effect on domestic market prices. This quota was a temporary
regulation designed to test its effect on the domestic market; it was abro-
gated by Government on December 18, 1977.
Government Livestock Services
2.10      The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) was established
by Government in October 1976 to regulate and promote livestock and meat



-6-
marketing in the Sudan. The LMMC was established under the Public Sector
Corporations Act of 1976, and is responsible for overall policy and general
budgetary matters to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.
One of the LMNXC's most important tasks will be to establish long term national
policies for the sale of livestock and meat in both internal and external
markets; it will also: (i) undertake surveys and research on production,
domestic consumption and export market prospects; (ii) establish, own and
operate livestock markets; (iii) arrange for the transport of livestock by
rail, road, river or by any other appropriate means; and (iv) regulate the
sale of livestock by grade and weight and set meat quality standards. LMMC is
a purely service-oriented institution which will not trade livestock on its
own account. The Animal Resources Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
will assist the LMMC by providing veterinary services at LMMC installations.
The Department also provides other services which will directly complement
LMMC activities; these include disease reporting, vaccination programs,
operation of the Government export abattoir at Kadero, and the operation and
development of stockroute facilities.
C. The Transport Sector
Railway Transport
2.11      The railway system is the primary mode of commercial transport in
the Sudan, as the road and river transport systems serve mainly as feeder
routes for the railway network. The railway includes some 4,800 km of
single line track from Port Sudan through Khartoum to Nyala in the west,
and from Wadi Halfa in the north to Wau in the south, as well as an alter-
nate eastern route between Sennar and Haiya (see Map, IBRD 12987). The
railway is administered by the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC); the Chair-
man of the SRC reports directly to the Minister of Transport who advises on
overall policy matters. Over the past several years the railroad has been
characterized by poor maintenance and a generally low operating efficiency;
these problems are reflected in a low availability of locomotives, frequent
locomotive failures, poor turnaround times, etc. The result has been that
SRC has been unable to meet a rapidly rising demand for freight service
between Khartoum and Port Sudan. Some of this excess demand has been met
by trucking companies (at a significantly higher cost), but the greater part
of the freight is stored awaiting shipment by rail - sometimes after delays
as long as several months. SRC currently has some 152 diesel and 56 steam
locomotives, 500 passenger coaches and 5,900 freight wagons (some 380 of
which are designed to transport livestock). It is expected that by 1980 the
Fourth Railway Project would significantly improve the operating efficiency of
this fleet, although it is still clear that SRC will face substantial diffi-
culties in meeting the projected demand for freight services over the next
decade. This lack of transport capacity will undoubtedly present a serious
bottleneck in the implementation of future development projects, for not
only will there be increasing competition for the transport of badly needed
construction materials and other inputs, but also an increase in demand for
transport of goods to be exported through Port Sudan.



-7-
2.12      Transport of livestock in the Sudan is severely constrained by
the shortage of suitable livestock wagons and the overall inefficiency of
the railroad. The shortage of livestock wagons is particularly critical,
as delays of up to 3 months in obtaining a wagon are not unusual. Although
the SRC now has some 380 wagons for transporting cattle, most of these wagons
are generally employed to haul high value cash crops such as groundnuts and
cotton. The existing tariff structure encourages SRC to give a very low
priority to livestock; for example, a wagon used to haul groundnuts can be
rented for some four times as much as the same wagon if it is used for live-
stock. However, even if the present rate structure were revised, there would
still be a serious shortage of wagons, as the existing freight greatly exceeds
the available wagon capacity. The overall operating inefficiency of the
railroad has also discouraged the traders from utilizing this service. The
high risk of mechanical breakdowns and other delays often mean that stock have
to be held on the trains without food or water for periods of up to a week.
This has resulted in high mortality and weight losses, effectively neu-
tralizing any advantages otherwise associated with rail transport.
Roads
2.13      There are now some 19,000 km of roads in the Sudan; of these about
700 km are paved (mostly near Khartoum), and 6,000 km are gravelled. Much
of the road network, particularly in the more populated and developed areas,
passes over heavy clay soils which are generally impassabie during the rainy
season (June-September). Road density, 7 km per 1,000 km , is the lowest
in East Africa. The main road network is principally a feeder to the railway
system; exports are transported by road to the nearest railhead and imported
consumer goods are moved from the railway by road to the scattered towns
and settlements. Government has undertaken the construction of several
important new roads, most notably the paved road connecting Khartoum to Port
Sudan (expected to be completed in 1978); the road will offer an alter-
native transport opportunity for those wishing to move goods between Khartoum
and Port Sudan, and should help to relieve some of the severe traffic conges-
tion now experienced on this segment of the railroad. The western provinces,
where the main supply of livestock presently originates, are connected only
with tracks which become impassable in the rainy season, and which even in
the dry season inflict such punishment on vehicles that long haul lorry
transport cannot be contemplated.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would over a six year period support the development
of an organized, national livestock marketing system through the establish-
ment of both market and transport infrastructure and the provision of staff
and supporting services for the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
(LMMC). Specifically the Project would include provision for:



-8-
(a) livestock transport including the purchase of locomotives
and wagons for livestock block trains to transport cattle
and sheep from the western producing areas to Khartoum and
Port Sudan, and working capital for the LMMC;
(b) establishment of railway holding, transit and terminal
yards at strategic locations along the railway which would
facilitate the collection of livestock by LMMC in advance
of train departures, allow stock to be rested during the
long journey from the west, and would furnish a means of
quarantining stock from the moment they enter the holding
yards;
(c) improvement and/or establishment of 11 secondary markets,
improvement of 30 primary markets, and construction of
two terminal markets near Khartoum;
(d) construction of a headquarters building, staff salaries,
vehicles, equipment and housing for the LMMC; and
(e). technical assistance, training and studies.
The LMMC would have overall responsibility for the organization and implemen-
tation of the Project. It would be assisted in the task by the Department
of Animal Resources, which would provide veterinary services at the markets
and the railway yards. SRC would be responsible for the technical operation
of the livestock block trains.
B. Detailed Features
Livestock Transport (Annex 2)
3.02      The Project would support the establishment by LMMC of a livestock
block train freight service between the producing areas in the west and
Khartoum and between Khartoum and Port Sudan. The Project would include
provision for four block trains, each to be drawn by two locomotives.
Three of the block trains would operate year-round and would be comprised
of 20 double-decker sheep wagons, seven cattle wagons, a guard van and a
brake van. The fourth train would consist of 27 cattle wagons and 2 vans;
this train would be operated only during the five month period of peak oper-
ations (November-March). At full capacity, therefore, the mixed trains could
each carry some 4,000 (20 x 200) sheep and some 175 (7 x 25) cattle; the peak
season train would be able to handle some 2,700 sheep or 675 head of cattle.
The capacity utilization would, however, vary significantly from one season
to the next for the first four years. Train schedules would be established
by the Transport Officer (para 3.13) in cooperation with SRC staff, and would
be adjusted regularly so as to most efficiently meet expected demand. The
block train concept has been introduced with highly favorable results on other
railway systems. The introduction of such a service in the Sudan would allow



-9-
LMMC to overcome the inefficiencies of the present SRC livestock transport
operations (para. 2.12) and would make possible an improved utilization of
equipment, reduced turnaround times, and lower operating costs.
3.03      The four block trains would basically require 8 locomotives, 60
double-deck sheep wagons, 48 cattle wagons and 8 vans (4 guard and 4 brake
vans). In addition, provision would also be included for 2 spare locomo-
tives (for maintenance purposes), 9 extra sheep wagons (3 for maintenance
purposes and 6 traffic spares) and I spare van (for maintenance purposes);
locomotive spare parts equal to 10% of the total cost of the locomotives
would also be included. Working capital would also be provided to LMMC
during the first four years of block train operation. All rolling stock
with the exception of the single-deck cattle wagons would be newly pur-
chased; the latter would be leased from SRC. The new equipment would be
procured, owned and operated by SRC; SRC would in turn lease the equipment
to LMMC. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SRC would use this
equipment exclusively for the purposes specified in the Transport Agreement
between SRC and LMMC (see below), and that it would not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of such equipment except in the normal course of busi-
ness and with the prior agreement of IDA. SRC would lease the required number
of cattle wagons from its existing stock to LIANC for varying periods in line
with projected needs. A Transport Agreement satisfactory to IDA has been
signed between LMMiC and SRC specifying lease terms, guarantees as to equipment
availability, maintenance procedures, scheduling and operation of the block
trains, and other matters of mutual concern to the two corporations (para.
4.05).
Transport Infrastructure (Annex 3)
3.04      The Project would provide for the establishment of 6 holding yards,
3 transit yards, one terminal and any necessary sidings along the railroad
between Nyala and Khartoum. These facilities would enable LNM}C to operate
a scheduled livestock freight service between the major livestock producing
areas in the west and Khartoum at a significantly higher level of operating
efficiency than Sudan Railways has been able to achieve over this same route.
The holding and transit yards would allow the journey from the west to be
broken into stages, thus keeping travel time within safe limits and minimiz-
ing mortality and weight losses; they would also enable LMMC to institute
quarantine and disease control measures at an earlier stage in the marketing
process than is now possible, thus reducing the time animals must spend in
quarantine in the east where food and other holding costs are considerably
higher. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the exact sites for the
railway holding yards and the railway transit yards would be selected by June
1979 and that Government would provide the necessary assistance to expedite
this process.
3.05      Railway Holding Yards.  Railway holding yards would be established
at Nyala, Ed Da'ein, Aweil, Meiram, Babanusa and El Obeid. The yards would
be used to hold animals awaiting railway transport, so that LMMC would be
able to build up specific numbers of carloads of stock in advance of train
departures. The holding yards would play an important role in establishing
a quarantine system for all livestock shipped by rail. Those animals which



- 10 -
had not been previously vaccinated at LMMC markets (para 3.10) would be
treated and held in the yards for five days before shipment. The main in-
vestment at each site would include holding pens, loading pens, ramps and
vaccination crushes, as well as a water supply, storage and distribution
system. A Superintendent, directly responsible to the Provincial Livestock
Marketing Officer (PLMO) in that area, would be in charge of each railway
holding yard. The District Veterinary Officer would be technically respon-
sible for the proper conduct of disease control and vaccination at LMMC
installations; veterinary staff would be seconded by the Animal Resources
Department, but salaries and related benefits would be defrayed by the
LMMC.
3.06      Railway Transit Yards.  Given Sudan Railway's present standard
of service, it would not be possible for the block trains to complete a
journey from Nyala and the other western holding yards to Khartoum in less
than 60 hours (the maximum time which animals can be left on a train without
food or water). Consequently, railway transit yards would be established
at three locations along the western rail line, i.e. at Er Rahad, Kosti
and Sennar. Animals coming from the west via the block trains would be
off-loaded at one of these terminals; they would then be watered, rested
and re-loaded for shipment east. The transit yards would have several addi-
tional functions. First, the availability of the yards would allow animals
arriving from the west to be collected so that complete 27 car block trains
could be formed prior to transport to the east. Second, the existence of
three alternative yards would afford an added protection against disease
outbreaks, as an outbreak of disease in a transit or holding area could close
those yards for a minimum 2-3 weeks. Third, the transit yards would also
receive livestock direct from the stockroutes and from local merchants wishing
to ship their animals to Khartoum.
3.07      Soba Railway Terminal Yard.  A railway terminal yard would be
established at Soba, 10 km south of Khartoum. All livestock shipped by
rail would be off-loaded at this terminal, pending transfer either to the
Soba market or to the quarantine at Kadero. It is expected that the great
majority of all animals shipped by rail would be ultimately intended for ex-
port, and only those animals which failed to meet export standards would be
sent to the Soba market for local sale. As the terminal yard would be built
on a site adjacent to the new Soba market (para 3.11), any animals destined
for local sale would be trekked the short distance between the two locations.
All other stock would be transferred to the yard's quarantine holding pens;
from there they would be moved by train or truck to one of the local feedlot
operations and to the Kadero quarantine station. Loading pens would be pro-
vided so animals could also be loaded and shipped to Port Sudan for export.
The major investments at the terminal yard would be for holding pens, load-
ing ramps, offices, and veterinary supplies.
Market Infrastructure (Annex 3)
3.08      The Project would establish and/or improve 30 primary, 11 secondary,
and 2 terminal markets. This development would be carried out by the LMMC,
which would set up a network of field offices to supervise the operation of
the markets. Most of the investments would be concentrated in the major-



- 11 -
livestock producing areas in the west (Map, IBRD 12987), although more
limited investments would also be carried out in other important produc-
tion and marketing centers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
the exact sites for the primary, secondary and terminal markets would be
selected by LNMIC by June 1979; that LMMC would take, not later than the same
date, all necessary action to acquire land and rights in respect of land for
these installations, and that Government would provide the necessary assist-
ance to expedite this process. The improved market facilities and the market
staff would allow LMMC to reorganize and rationalize the existing market
operations; this would be facilitated by the licensing of traders, the reduc-
tion in the number of brokers participating in the sales process, and the
eventual institution of auction procedures. Over the Project period, an
increasing percentage of marketed offtake would move through the official
markets, as the 'producers gradually become convinced of the substantial
benefits (higher prices and better sales opportunities) of utilizing these
facilities (para 5.01).
3.09      Primary Markets.  A minimum of infrastructure would be provided
at 30 primary markets which presently have no facilities of any kind. The
market area would be enclosed by a thorn fence; a sales ring would be estab-
lished inside this area which would be reached through both an entrance
and an exit race with connecting gates. The primary markets would be super-
vised by six mobile marketing teams based either at a Provincial Livestock
Marketing Office or at a nearby secondary market. The teams would visit each
primary market under their supervision on the predetermined market days; they
would provide for the vaccination of all livestock entering the markets,
supervise market sales, and collect market fees (which would be set by the
LMMC). The Provincial Livestock Marketing Officers would institute licensing
procedures to strictly limit the number of brokersa who would be allowed to
operate within the market itself; any restrictions would, however, be intro-
duced gradually, and only with the cooperation and approval of the producers,
traders and merchants.
3.10      Secondary Markets.  Eleven secondary markets would be established
or improved under the Project. Where possible, these markets would be con-
structed on the same site as the existing market, although in the majority
of cases the markets would have to be moved to a new location in order to
obtain the necessary space and sufficient water for the increased number of
livestock expected to utilize the facilities. Animals would initially be sold
by private treaty; auction markets would, however, be gradually introduced
once the participants had been familiarized with this procedure. Each market
would be administered by a 15-man market team headed by a Market Master;
veterinary staff would provide for the vaccination and inspection of all stock
passing through the markets, and would issue movement permits.
3.11      Terminal Markets.  Terminal markets would be established at two
locations near Khartoum. The first would be established outside Khartoum,
west of the White Nile; this market would mainly handle stock coming off the
western stockroutes, and would replace the presently overcrowded Omdurman
market (para 2.08). The second would be established at Soba near the new Soba
railway terminal (para 3.07); this market would handle stock arriving by
train, as well as trade stock trekked in from the inter-riverine area.



- 12 -
The market outside Khartoum would be by far the larger of the two; it would be
able to handle about 480 cattle and 3,000 small stock daily, as compared to
180 cattle and 1,500 small stock daily for the Soba market. LMMC staff
assigned to each of the markets would include: an Assistant Marketing Officer,
a Market Master, Auctioneers, Veterinary Assistants, clerks, and other support-
ing staff.
LNMC Headquarters and Field Staff
3.12      The Project would support the development of the newly established
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) through the provision of
staff, equipment and vehicles. Due to the shortage of office space in
Khartoum, an office building would be constructed for LMMC headquarters
staff. At full development some 29 senior level, 94 intermediate level,
and 536 supporting staff would be recruited; these would include both those to
be stationed at LMMC headquarters in Khartoum and field staff. This staff
would include an internationally recruited Field Livestock and Meat Marketing
Expert; this post has been filled and the expert is already in post. A
communications network would be established connecting LMMC headquarters with
the terminal and secondary markets and with all Project transport facilities;
this would enable headquarters staff to allocate transport capacity efficiently
and to monitor the block train movements. Funds would also be provided for
the purchase of road transport equipment for use in both Khartoum and Port
Sudan. Two tractor-trailer combinations (plus two spare trailers) would be
provided for transporting livestock between Soba and Khartoum and Kadero or to
the livestock fattening operations. This road transport service would be
operated by LMMC as a pilot operation to encourage private truckers to under-
take a similar service. In addition, two tractor-trailers (plus 2 spare
trailers) would be provided to haul livestock in Port Sudan from the quarantine
yards to the port. The recently appraised IDA Port Project would in addition
provide holding facilities sufficient to accommodate livestock from one block
train within the port area.
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
3.13      At the specific request of Government, six internationally re-
cruited technical experts would be provided for five years to assist LMMC in
implementing the proposed Project and in developing national livestock mar-
keting and price policies. These would comprise: a Livestock and Meat Mar-
keting Advisor, a Livestock and Meat Marketing Economist, an Advisor for
Finance and Administration, a Livestock Transport Officer, a Regional
Livestock Marketing Advisor, and a Clerk of Works. Terms of reference for
these staff may be found in Annex 6, Appendix 1. The average annual cost of
each internationally recruited staff would be US$60,000.
3.14      The Project would include 40 man-months of training for senior
LMMC staff through fellowships and study tours both overseas and elsewhere
in East Africa (Annex 6, Appendix 2). A program for the training of the
PLMO's would be set up by the Regional Livestock Marketing Advisors; other
local staff would receive on-the-job training as the need arises. The Proj-
ect would provide funds to finance consultants to assist with studies of



- 13 -
local markets, market procedures and national marketing policies, and export
market prospects (Annex 6, Appendix 3). Research Department staff would also
undertake planning for the further development of LMIMC including preparation
of a possible second stage project. The Director of Marketing Research would
be responsible for Project monitoring and evaluation.
C. Project Costs (Annex 4)
3.15      Total Project cost is estimated at ESd 20.5 million (US$51.3 mil-
lion), of which about US$25.0 million or about 49% would represent foreign
exchange requirements. Total Project cost is detailed below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    %
--------tSd'000------   -------US$'000-----
Livestock Transport        2,200   4,100   6,300   5,500  10,300  15,800    66
Transport
Infrastructure          1,700   1,300   3,000   4,300   3,200   7,500    42
Market Infrastructure    1,800       900   2,700   4,400   2,300   6,700    35
LMMC Headquarters         2,100      800   2,900   5,200   2,000   7,200    28
Technical Assistance,
Training & Studies        200      700      900     600   1,700   2,300    76
Base Cost            8,000   7,800  15,800  20,000  19,500  39,500    49
Physical Contingency         800     800   1,600   2,000   2,000   4,000    49
Price Contingency         1,700   1,400   3,100   4,300   3,500   7,800    45
Total Contingencies 2,500   2,200   4,700   6,300   5,500  11,800    47
Total Cost          10,500  10,000  20,5    26300  2           51,300    49
Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in February 1978.  A
physical contingency of 10% has been included.  In addition price contingen-
cies totalling 20% have been included to allow for expected increases in local
and foreign costs over the Project period. Price contingencies are based on



- 14 -
estimated levels of price increase for Project items in the Sudan (Annex 4,
Table 1). Import duties and other taxes on Project goods are estimated at
ESd 3.3 million (US$8.2 million) and have been included.
D. Financing (Annex 5)
3.16      The UK Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) has agreed to finance
the technical assistance component of the Project. On this basis the financ-
ing of Project costs would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
US$ million                x
IDA                       25.0                     58
ODM                         3.1                      7
Government                 15.0                    35
Sub-total               43.1                    100
Taxes and Duties            8.2
Total                   51.3
The IDA contribution of US$25.0 million would be on standard terms. The
Government contribution (US$15.0 million) and IDA funds for transport infra-
structure, market infrastructure, and LMMC headquarters would be channelled
directly by Government to LMMC on an equity basis. Finance for the purchase
of locomotives and rolling stock would be channelled from Government to SRC
as long term debt; finance for working capital for the railway operations
would be channeled by Government directly to LMMC on an equity basis. The
foreign exchange cost of the equipment excluding customs (74% of the total
cost of the equipment) would be onlent to SRC for 20 years at 8% p.a. with a
five year grace period. Customs duties on railway equipment would be deferred
(para 5.08). The ODM contribution would be made as a grant under the Technical
Assistance Agreement between the UK and Sudan, dated April 4, 1970. It would
be a condition of effectiveness for the Project that the Government had made
the necessary arrangements for securing the ODM grant. In order to allow the
Project to get underway without delay, IDA approved an advance under the
Project Preparation Facility of US$350,000 (US$160,000 for salaries and
US$190,000 for vehicles) to finance certain expenditures to be incurred by the
LMMC after April 1, 1977. The funds are available to be used to recruit 5 of
the technical specialists for periods of up to seven months; the specialists
eligible to be recruited under this procedure are: (i) the Livestock and Meat
Marketing Advisor; (ii) the Livestock and Meat Marketing Economist; (iii) the
Advisor for Finance and Administration; and (iv) two Regional Livestock
Marketing Advisors. Funds are also available for the procurement of 4-wheel



- 15 -
drive pickups and station wagons. Only a small part of the staff advance will
be utilized, as ODM has indicated it is willing to finance the remaining staff
expenditures on a grant basis. An advance for the purchase of 12 vehicles (at
a cost of about US$120,000) has been approved by IDA.
E. Procurement 1/
3.17      Procurement of locomotives (US$8.4 million), double-deck wagons and
vans (US$3.5 million), vehicles (including spare parts) and construction
equipment (US$2.2 million), office furniture and supplies (US$0.5 million),
materials for railway sidings and loading platforms (US$0.8 million), and
livestock pen construction materials (US$1.6 million) in orders over US$50,000
would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) according to IDA
guidelines. ICB would total an estimated US$17.0 million. Orders would
be bulked to the maximum extent possible. The construction of 64 houses for
staff, the LMMC headquarters office, and the water supply works for the
markets and railway transport facilities, which due to their dispersed loca-
tions would not attract ICB, would be subject to bidding by local building
contractors, the Corporation for Public Buildings and Works and the Rural
Water Corporation under Government procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.
In those cases where the buildings would be in localities so remote that no
reasonable bids would be received, LMMC would request the Ministry of Con-
struction8and Public Works to carry out the construction on a force account
basis. The total amount subject to local competitive bidding or force account
is estimated at US$3.9 million. Contracts for houses would total about US$1.4
million and the LMMC headquarters office is estimated to cost US$0.9 million.
The water supply contract including 14 pump houses, 8 boreholes, intake
structures, pumps, engines, elevated storage tanks, piping, hydrants, and
water troughs would total about US$1.6 million.   SRC would construct any
necessary railway sidings and platforms. Consultants would be engaged to
design and prepare contract documents, assist LMMC in receiving bids and
supervise construction of the LMMC headquarters office in Khartoum; the
procurement of architect/engineering services would be in accordance with IDA
guidelines for professional services. The LMMC's Director of Finance and
Administration would be responsible for the preparation of contract documents
and evaluation of bids, but would be free to obtain assistance from other
Governmental organizations such as the Sudan Railways Corporation and the
Ministry of Construction and Public Works. Bids would be accepted from
contractors registered with the Ministry of Construction and Public Works and
all contracts would be submitted for IDA approval. Assurances that the above
procurement procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursement (Annex 5)
3.18      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over six years in
accordance with Schedule A. The local costs of construction of buildings,
1/   Amounts expressed without contingencies.



- 16 -
pens and enclosures and railway sidings and platforms include the costs of
labor, site preparation, etc. Disbursements against (a); (b); (c) (i) and
(ii); (d); (e); and (f) (i) and (ii) would be fully documented. Disbursements
against (c) (iii) and (f) (iii) would be made against statements of expenditure
certified by the Director for Finance and Administration and the Director
General, the documentation for which would not be submitted for review; such
documents would be retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspec-
tion by IDA in the course of normal supervision missions. Any funds remaining
in the credit account upon completion of the Project would be available for
reallocation for financing supplementary expenditures, subject to the approval
of IDA. An estimated disbursement schedule as well as a Project implementation
schedule are given in Annex 5.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.19      An appropriate system of accounts would be established for LMMC
by the Finance and Administration Department (para 4.02) under the guidance
of an internationally recruited advisor (para 3.13). The advisor would
be particularly responsible for ensuring that these accounts are prepared
in accordance with the requirements of the various financing agencies.
Sudan Railways Corporation would be required to establish special accounts
showing income and expenditures for Project related activities. Government
institutions and corporations as well as other World Bank Group financed
projects are currently subject to annual audit by the Auditor General's
Office, which performs this work in a competent manner. Assurances were
obtained from Government at negotiations that all LMMC and SRC accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, that unaudited accounts
would be furnished to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year,
and that certified copies of the audited annual accounts of LMMC and SRC
(including the Project accounts) would be furnished to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained
that Government would, promptly after completion of the Project but no later
than six months after the credit closing date, prepare a completion report
on the execution of the Project, its costs and benefits, and its major ac-
complishments. The completion report would be prepared by LYlIC's Director
General.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (Annex 6)
4.01      The establishment of LMMC represented Government's first attempt to
provide a single administrative unit with full responsibility for the marketing
of livestock and meat in the Sudan. Given its wide-ranging responsibilities
(para 2.10), the development of this new institution will be a complicated and
lengthy undertaking, and one which will require dedication and cooperation on



- 17 -
the part of both LMIC staff and the staff of the other Government agencies
concerned. L1MC's most important activity over the next six years will be the
implementation of the proposed Project. As part of this effort, it will
gradually take over responsibility for livestock markets, beginning with those
to be established or improved under the Project, and will be responsible for
establishing a block train service for transporting livestock.
4.02      A Director General (DG), responsible to the Board of Directors,
will have immediate responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the
LMMC (Chart, World Bank 17620).  The DG is now in post, and will coordinate
the recruitment of all subordinate staff; this recruitment is well underway.
Government has already passed a temporary budget allocation to cover these
staff salaries until the Project is underway. The LMMC will have three main
operational departments, the heads of which report directly to the DG. The
Domestic Markets Department will be the main operational department and will
oversee the development of LOIC's market and railway facilities.  The Market-
ing Research Department will formulate and coordinate both domestic and export
market policies, and will be responsible for research and the collection of
statistical data. The Finance and Administration Department will oversee
LMMC's budget, personnel, and communications, as well as overall operations
of the headquarters building. At full development the LMMC will employ some
665 persons; well over two thirds of these staff will be stationed in the
field - mainly in western Sudan. In order to ensure that LMMC would be able
to attract well qualified staff, assurances were obtained from Government
that LMMC would be allowed to employ all staff at the wage leveols prevailing
in corporations which operate predominantly on commercial principles. In
addition, housing would be built for almost all senior and intermediate field
staff, and where required, special allowances (furniture, travel, etc.) would
also be paid.
Control of Livestock Prices, Movement and Markets
4.03      At the present time the provincial authorities have the power to set
livestock prices and to control the movement of livestock out of a province.
The authorities use these ad hoc interventions to keep consumer prices within
certain limits, since given the importance of meat consumption in the Sudan,
consumers are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations. Attempts to
control the trade are often counterproductive, however, and in any case the
overall enforcement mechanisms are weak. Animals may be diverted from local
markets to markets in neighboring areas where prices are higher, or may simply
be sold outside official markets. It is essential to the success of the
Project that LMMC be able to assure a free flow of animals from one part of
the country to another. The restrictive and often conflicting policies
of the various independent provincial authorities must be curbed if an effi-
cient nationwide marketing system is to be established. Assurances were
obtained therefore at negotiations that the Government would take all the
governmental and administrative action necessary to assist LHIMC in reaching
agreements with the Provincial Authorities concerned, which would provide
inter alia that the Authorities, within their respective jurisdictions,
would not impose, without the agreement of LMMC, livestock or meat prices,
or restrict, for other than sanitary or safety reasons, the trade movement
of livestock.



- 18 -
4.04      The provincial authorities presently own and operate all live-
stock markets in the Sudan; this activity is important to them, as they
derive a substantial part of their revenues from the collection of market
fees. LMMC would assume control of all markets to be improved under the
Project by June 1980; it would then gradually take over all other markets
(starting with the remaining markets in the six provinces directly affected
by the Project) and would set and collect market fees. In order to ensure a
smooth transition, LMMC would advise the provincial authorities on the opera-
tion of the markets not yet under LMMC control, and would participate in the
preparation of provincial budgets related to the markets. Moreover, as
compensation for the transfer of these markets to LMMC, during the Project
implementation period LMMC would pay the provinces an annual sum equal to
their present annual net income from market operations and would employ
existing market staff. Provision would be made for the provinces to receive a
reasonable share of the incremental income from market operations, such income
to be computed on the basis of a fixed fee per head or on some other mutually
agreed basis. In return for this guaranteed income, the provincial authori-
ties would agree not to impose any additional taxes on LMMC market or railway
installations within their jurisdiction. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that Government would take all the necessary governmental and adminis-
trative action necesssary to assist LMMC in reaching agreements with the
Provincial Authorities concerned which would provide inter alia that the
Authorities would not impose local taxes or similar duties within the markets
or LMMC's railway holding yards, or use any of said markets and holding yards
as centers for tax collection; and that these agreements would also specify
the time-schedule for transferring administrative and management jurisdiction
over the markets to LMMC and the methods of allocating the profits derived
from operating the markets between LMMC and each one of such Provincial
Authorities. The signing of such agreements with each of the eight provinces
concerned (Khartoum, Gezeira, White Nile, North and South Kordofan, North and
South Darfur, and Bahr El Ghazal) would be a condition of disbursement for the
Market Infrastructure component of the Project. Several of these agreements
have already been signed, and the remainder are expected to be signed by
credit effectiveness.
B. Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC)
4.05      SRC would procure, own, operate and maintain the livestock block
trains. Under the Transport Agreement signed between LMMC and SRC (para 3.03)
all new equipment as well as a variable number of single-deck cattle wagons
would be leased to LMMC at a rental which would allow SRC to recover its full
capital and operating costs (including a reasonable profit margin) associated
with the ownership and operation of the trains. The monthly rental charge
paid by LMMC would have two parts - a fixed charge based on an allowance for
capital recovery and a variable charge which would be based on projected
operating and maintenance costs including a contribution to overhead. LMMC
would set and collect fees for the transport of livestock on the block trains.
LMMC tariffs established under the Project are expected to be at least 100%
higher for sheep and 300% higher for cattle than current SRC charges; however,
SRC is now undertaking a comprehensive review of its railway tariffs with a
view to establishing them at a level which would cover actual costs. As SRC



- 19 -
now has sole authority over railway transport rates, assurances were obtained
from Government at negotiations that, from the date on which the Transport
Agreement becomes effective, LMMC would be granted the authority to set
and collect rates for the transport of livestock on the block trains, and to
review said rates as and when needed. Assurances were also obtained that SRC
would make gradual adjustments in its rates for livestock transport so that
such rates would reach, not later than June 30, 1981, and would thereafter be
maintained at, levels corresponding to those charged by LMMC on the basis of
the full actual costs of such transport.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS. MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
A.  Project Benefits
5.01      At full development the Project would have encouraged livestock
producers in the six western provinces in which Project investments would
be concentrated to channel 40,000 more cattle and 420,000 more sheep annually
through the markets (an increase of 130 and 220 percent respectively). The
expansion in the number of livestock moving through the market system would be
attributable to the institution of more efficient market operations (including
a reduction in the number of middlemen participating in the trading process),
which would in turn result in the producer receiving a larger share of the
sales price. Some 48,000 more cattle and 486,000 more sheep would be trans-
ported by rail to Khartoum (increases of 1,600 and 380 percent), and 12,000
more cattle and 240,000 more sheep would be transported from Khartoum to Port
Sudan (increases of 100 and 120 percent respectively). This expansion in the
number of livestock transported would be induced by the introduction of the
block train service (para 3.03) and by the expected increase in export demand
(para 5.02). Annual numbers of cattle exported, live or processed, would be
increased by 2,000 and 3,000 respectively (an increase of 130 and 600 percent)
and annual numbers of sheep being exported live or processed would have
increased by 133,000 and 62,000 respectively (an increase of 195 and 350
percent).
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 7)
5.02      The full exploitation of Sudan's present comparative advantage
in live sheep exports to Saudi Arabia has been hampered by the export quota
system (para 2.09). In view of the lifting of the export ban and the Six
Year Plan target of ESd 80 million annual export earnings from livestock
and meat, the option for export has clearly been taken by Government.
Applying projected export prices to export surplus projections for 1982/83,
this target appears to be within reach. It must be realized, however, that
this achievement would be impossible if producer prices are kept unduely low
in order to protect consumers. While it is obvious that the financial export
goal can be reached only with substantial sheep and mutton exports, Government



- 20 -
is very much concerned with the question of exactly how many sheep the country
can afford to export. Present estimates are that expanded exports of sheep
beyond the present quota will result in somewhat higher prices in the local
markets 'sara 5.04).  Consequently, low income consumers will be impelled to
make a partial switch away from mutton into beef. At prevailing prices in
Khartoum, some lower income consumers have already made this change; it
appears that their main concern has been the availability of meat at reason-
able prices rather than the question of which kind of meat is preferred. The
higher and middle income consumer is already beginning to show an interest in
veal and quality beef, and has the added alternative of poultry meat, which is
becoming increasingly available. The most appropriate course of action
for a Government desiring to increase foreign exchange earnings would there-
fore appear to be to liberalize exports and allow prices in the local market
to structure themselves according to the export market and consumers' prefer-
ences. The resulting increased flow of animals and meat for export would
automatically increase the availability in the domestic market of animals
and meat of non-export quality.
5.03      Government now fully supports the expansion of meat and livestock
exports. It particularly wishes to assist exporters in entering into the
long term supply contracts without which they will be unable to retain or
expand the country's share of Middle East export markets. Consequently,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would take all
necessary measures to encourage meat and livestock exports, and would avoid
taking any measures which would adversely affect such exports, as for example,
the imposition of bans (for other than sanitary reasons), quotas, or fees,
taxes and duties at such levels as would in effect prohibit or substantially
curtail exports. Moreover, Government determined that the LMMC was the agency
best able to regulate and monitor export flows in a way which would both
promote the welfare of the livestock industry and protect the national interest.
Therefore, on December 18, 1977 the LMMC was granted authority by the Ministry
of Trade and Supply to draw up rules and regulations for the export of meat
and livestock; LMMC was at the same given the authority to issue livestock
permits and licenses and to collect the fees due thereon. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the authority to issue export permits and to
collect the related export permit fees would continue to be exercised by
LMMC.
5.04      If exports were liberalized, mutton prices in the Khartoum market
would rise in constant terms from the present 75 pt/kg towards the present net
export price of 95 pt/kg. This initial price rise would be counteracted by an
increase in supply, with the resulting price competition forcing a decline in
prices towards 85 pt/kg. It is therefore likely that the local market price
would eventually reach an equilibrium in the range 80-90 pt/kg. Beef prices
are related less to the volume of Sudanese exports than to world market
prices. Presently, parity between (net) export and domestic prices has
been reached. However, the world market price for beef is in the process
of recovery from the recent price slump and a rise by up to 20% over the
coming two years is forecast. Domestic market prices may, therefore, show a
tendency to rise in constant terms from the present average of 50 pt/kg toward
60 pt/kg; they would most likely remain about 55 pt/kg due to the limited ab-
sorptive capacity of the Saudi Arabian market for Sudanese beef and the higher
cost of supplying other markets.



- 21 -
C. Financial Benefits (Annexes 8 & 9)
LUIC
5.05     LUMC market fees and railway transport rates would be set at levels
designed to provide it with adequate revenues in each fiscal year. In order
to achieve this objective, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMMC would take all such
measures (including but not limited to adjustments in market fees and railway
transport rates) as would be required to provide LMMC each fiscal year with
revenues sufficient to cover:  (i) operating expenses of LMMC: (ii) the
aggregate amount of amortization of debt in excess of depreciation; (iii) an
adequate amount of working capital; and (iv) reserves adequate to meet contin-
gencies. Currently market fees vary widely from one market to another and the
collection rate also varies. Annex 9, Table 2 shows the minimum market fees
the LMMC would have to charge in order to meet the above objectives; the
minimum fees would be LSd 1.00/head for cattle and LSd 0.50/head for sheep
(which represent increases of 50% to 200% over existing rates). These esti-
mates assume that, due to the provision of more suitable infrastructure and
more efficient market administration, the new market facilities would attract
a higher volume of trade than the existing ones and that the fee collection
rate under LMMC management would improve.
5.06      Revenue from railway transport of livestock would increase gradually
over the first four years of operation and remain constant for the remainder
of the Project life. Due to conservatively low load factors projected in
the initial years of operation of the livestock block trains, and the monthly
advance payment of the lease rental to SRC, LMMC would accumulate a working
capital deficit during the first four years of operation of the livestock
block trains. This working capital need would be financed under the Project.
The freight rate per loaded wagon per km would be designed to cover all
financial costs throughout the entire Project life. The operating cost
assumptions (Annex 9, Table 3) would result in a break-even freight rate of
33.5 pt per loaded wagon per km. This rate would be approximately four times
the rate SRC currently charges per wagon km.  SRC's current livestock transport
rates are not sufficient to cover SRC's operating costs and will be reviewed
(para 4.05).
5.07      LMMC's cumulative consolidated revenue would total ESd 58.6 million
over the life of the Project; market revenue of ESd 27.8 million would repre-
sent 48% of the total and the remaining 52% or tSd 30.8 million would be
derived from livestock transport revenue. LNNIC's consolidated operations
would break-even over the Project life (Annex 9, Table 5). On a consolidated
basis, LIMC would generate a cash surplus of about lSd 10 million over the
Project life (Annex 9, Table 6).



- 22 -
SRC
5.08      The main financial incentives for SRC to assist in carrying out the
Project would be: (i) the lease finance charge of 8.5% p.a. for the utiliza-
tion of the railway equipment; (ii) a premium for reasonable performance
which is expected to average 10% of SRC's operating costs excluding deprecia-
tion; and (iii) a contribution to general overhead such as track maintenance.
In order to alleviate SRC's liquidity position, LMMC would make rental payments
to SRC in monthly advances. SRC's acquisition of the capital equipment neces-
sary to carry out this Project would be financed by long term debt (para 3.16).
In the IDA Fourth Railway Project Government agreed to defer customs duties on
all imported goods until such a time as SRC would be in a financial position
to repay them. Under the Project, customs duties on rolling stock for the
block trains would be Iikewise deferred.
5.09      In order to assess the financial impact of the Project on SRC,
the financial internal rate of return was calculated by projecting SRC's
operating statements with and without the Project, setting out the profit
before depreciation and interest. The projections were done in constant
1978 prices. The financial impact of the Project on the pro-forma finan-
cial statements of SRC would be limited due to the relatively small size
of the additional capital equipment that would be acquired and of the incre-
mental revenue that would be generated. With the Project, SRC would meet or
exceed the financial standards of operating performance set without the
Project, and its liquidity would show an improvement (Annex 9, Table 10).
SRC's pro-forma operating statements showing incremental revenue and expenses
are given in Annex 9, Table 7. Revenues would increase from 1981 through 1985
and remain constant through 2000. SRC would generate a cash surplus of about
tSd 7.3 million (US$18.3 million) over the Project life (Annex 9, Table 9).
SRC's financial rate of return for the Project investments would be 17% (Annex
9, Table 11).
Government Cash Flow (Annex 10)
5.10      Government would derive revenues from excise taxes and import taxes
and duties totalling about ESd 4.6 million (US$11.4 million) through Project
year 22. During the disbursement period (years 1-6), the net annual Government
cash flow would be negative, and a deficit of about ISd 3.0 million (US$7.5
million) would have been accumulated by the end of year 6. At year 22 when
the lease between LMMC and SRC is due to expire, the Government would have
accumulated a funds deficit of ESd 5.8 million (US$14.5 million) after debt
service. This amount represents Government's contribution to the Project
less revenues from the Project, or about 35% of total Project cost net of
taxes. Producers, traders and exporters involved in the Project would pay
unsubsidized prices for marketing services, transport services, water and
fodder. As a result of a full cost recovery policy, LMMC and SRC would
generate substantial cumulative cash surplus over the Project life (paras 5.07
and 5.09) and would be in a position to fund the acquisition of new capital
assets after the end of the Project.



- 23 -
5.11      The foreign exchange effect of the Project would vary during
its lifetime. During the Project investment period (years 1-6), foreign
exchange costs would exceed cumulative incremental foreign exchange revenues
by about ESd 2.1 million (US$5.3 million) in constant 1978 monetary
units. From year 4 onwards, however, the annual foreign exchange cash flow
would be positive, and by year 8 the cumulative deficit would be eliminated
due to higher livestock exports. The annual incremental foreign exchange
surplus at full development would be about ISd 1.9 million (US$4.8 million)
in 1978 constant terms.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would represent an initial step in the long term
development of the Sudan's livestock industry; as such, it would help to
relieve some of the major constraints which have hampered the expansion
of national livestock production. The main quantified benefits would be (i)
weight loss savings, (ii) maintenance cost savings, and (iii) an expansion in
the number of animals transported from Khartoum to Port Sudan and a consequent
increase in livestock exports (Annex 11). The overall economic rate of return
of the Project over 22 years would be 15% (Annex 11). In this analysis
foreign exchange was shadow priced at a rate of LSd 1 = US$2.00 (compared to
the prevailing rate of ESd I = US$2.50) to reflect the economic value of
foreign exchange for the economy. All labor was valued at market prices. All
costs excluding taxes and customs duties were included in the rate of return
calculation. Rates of return were not calculated for individual Project
components due to the difficulties of disassociating benefits derived from the
railway transport components from those of the markets.
6.02      In addition, the Project would have a substantial number of unquan-
tifiable benefits. The improvement of the markets and the institution of more
efficient market procedures would reduce marketing bottlenecks, thus allowing
the export demand pull on prices to be readily translated into higher prices
for producers. The block trains would ensure regular supplies of meat at
stable prices to the Khartoum market, facilitate the marketing of immatures
for the new fattening enterprises, guarantee regular shipments to export
markets (thus allowing exporters to enter into long term supply contracts),
and improve the efficiency of animal disease control through the introduction
of veterinary procedures at an early stage in the marketing process. Finally,
the establishment of the LMMC would facilitate the development of long term
national marketing policies which would give the private sector the confi-
dence and the flexibility necessary to undertake substantial investment in
the livestock industry. The Project beneficiaries would be the producers,
consumers, the traders, the large-scale fattening enterprises, and the Govern-
ment. Producers would receive, over time, increasingly higher prices for
their animals. Consumers would benefit from an increased year-round supply of
meat, more stable prices, and increased competition among sellers. Traders and
the fattening enterprises would benefit from the lower cost of transporting
livestock, a faster turnover of capital, and expanded export prospects.
Government would benefit significantly from the foreign exchange earnings to
be derived from the increased livestock exports.



- 24 -
Risk
6.03      There would, however, be several risks associated with the imple-
mentaiou. of the Project; the most important of these would be that: (i)
SRC's overall operational inefficiencies might make it impossible to guaran-
tee a regular and reliable block train service; and (ii) the traders might be
reluctant to pay the higher LMMC fares to ship their livestock by train and
would continue to trek them from the west to Khartoum. There is no question
that SRC's willingness to cooperate with LNMC and its ability to ensure the
reliability of the block trains will be the key determinant of the Project's
success. SRC has indicated that it will fully cooperate with the LMMC in the
maintenance, scheduling and operation of the trains, and has signed a contract
with LMMC covering every detail of these mutual responsibilities. It is
expected that by the time the Project is fully operational, the IDA Fourth
Railway Project should have made significant strides in upgrading SRC's
overall efficiency (particularly its maintenance capability); thus Project
trains should receive a standard of service not possible under present ope-
rating conditions. Likewise, the Project would provide all the locomotives,
spare parts, double-deck wagons and vans required by the block trains, thus
insulating them from SRC's equipment constraints; this equipment would be
utilized solely by the block trains unless temporarily released by LMMC. The
single deck wagons to be supplied by SRC from its existing stock should be
made available by them without difficulty.  If LMMC is able to provide a
regular and efficient block train service, the traders should gradually
overcome any initial reluctance to make use of this opportunity.  Calculations
show that even at the.higher rates it would be financially advantageous to the
traders to ship their stock by rail (Annex 8). It is believed also that the
new fattening enterprises will find the trains an invaluable asset in ensuring
reguiar supplies of feeder stock throughout the year; these enterprises
are expected to eventually become important customers of the L1*IC. The
Project sensitivity analysis reflects the magnitude of these and other Project
risks. If the load factor on the livestock block trains were reduced by 10%
the rate of return would be 12%; if, however, the load factor were increased
by 5% the rate of return would be 16%. If foreign exchange were not shadow
priced the rate of return would be 12%. If the cost of fuel and lubricants
for the train were increased by 200%, the rate of return would be 12%.
Overall, while the risks associated with the Project cannot be ignored, they
have been minimized to the maximum extent possible and are worth taking in
view of the substantial benefits to be obtained.
Employment Effect
6.04      The Project would ensure permanent employment for some 700 persons.
About 665 of these would be employed by LMMC; some 215 would be seconded from
other Government agencies, and 450 (50 intermediate level staff, 150 clerical
and drivers, and 250 laborers) would be newly employed. SRC would employ 20
additional drivers and assistant drivers and 10 guards for the livestock
block trains; all other personnel required for the operation and maintenance
of the trains would come from SRC's present staff.



- 25 -
Environmental Effect
6.05      The Project would have a beneficial effect both on the presently
over-stocked ranges and on the densely populated urban area around the
Omdurman market. Investments in market and transport infrastructure would
result in a substantial increase in total marketed production (para 5.01),
thus alleviating the grazing pressure which has contributed to the environ-
mental deterioration of the western savannah and other important livestock
production areas. The relocation of the Omdurman market would reduce sanita-
tion and disease problems in the Khartoum area, and would allow for the
orderly development of housing and other facilities on the present site.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a) it would ensure that SRC would use the railway equipment
purchased under the Project exclusively for the purposes
specified in the Transport Agreement, and would not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of such equipment
except in the normal cause of business and with the prior
agreement of IDA (para 3.03);
(b) the exact sites for the railway holding yards, the railway
transit yards and the Project markets would be selected by
M1C by June 1979, that I1 1MC would take, not later than the
same date, all necessary action to acquire land and rights in
respect of land for these installations, and that Government
would provide the necessary assistance to expedite this
process (paras 3.04 and 3.08);
(c) the procurement procedures specified in para. 3.17 would be
followed (para 3.17);
(d)  all LMMC and SRC accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, that unaudited accounts would be
furnished to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal
year, and that certified copies of the audited annual
accounts of LMMC and SRC (including special accounts es-
tablished to reflect income and expenditures for Project
related activities) would be furnished to IDA not later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para 3.19);
(e) promptly after completion of the Project but no later than
six months after the credit closing date, it would prepare
a completion report on the execution of the Project, its
costs and benefits, and its major accomplishments (para 3.19);



- 26 -
(f)  LMMC would be allowed to employ all staff at the wage
levels prevailing in corporations which operate pre-
dominantly on commercial principles (para 4.02);
(g) it would take all the governmental and administrative
action necessary to assist LMMC in reaching agreements
with the Provincial Authorities which would provide, inter
alia, that the Authorities, within their respective
jurisdictions, (i) would not impose, without the agreement
of LMMC, livestock or meat prices, or restrict, for other
than sanitary or safety reasons, the trade movement of
livestock; and (ii) would not impose local taxes or
similar duties within the markets or LMMC's railway
holding yards, or use any of said markets and holding
yards as centers for tax collection; and which would spe-
cify the time-schedule for transferring administrative
and management jurisdiction over the markets to LIMC and
the methods of allocating the profits derived from operat-
ing the markets between LMIC and each one of such Provincial
Authorities (paras 4.03 and 4.04);
(h) from the date on which the Transport Agreement becomes
effective, LMMC would be granted the authority to set and
collect rates for the transport of livestock on the block
trains and to review said rates as and when needed
(para 4.05);
(i) it would cause SRC to make gradual adjustments in its
rates for livestock transport so that such rates shall
reach, not later than June 30, 1981, and shall thereafter
be maintained at, levels corresponding to those charged
by LIMC on the basis of the full actual costs of such
transport (para 4.05);
(j) it would take all necessary measures to encourage livestock
exports, and would avoid taking any measures which would
adversely affect exports, such as the imposition of bans
(for other than sanitary reasons), quotas, or fees, taxes
and duties at such levels as would in effect prohibit or
substantially curtail exports (para 5.03);
(k)  LMMC would continue to be empowered to issue livestock export
permits and licenses and to collect the fees due thereon
(para 5.03);and
(1) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMMC would
take all such measures (including but not limited to adjust-
ments in market fees and railway transport rates) as would
be required to provide LMMC each fiscal year with revenues
sufficient to cover: (i) operating expenses of UIMC; (ii)
the aggregate amount of amortization of debt in excess of
depreciation; (iii) an adequate amount of working capital;
and (iv) reserves adequate to meet contingencies (para 5.05).



- 27 -
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness for the Project that
Government had made the necessary arrangements to secure the ODM grant
(para 3.16).
7.03      It would be a condition of disbursement for the Market Infrastruc-
ture component that agreements had been signed with the provincial authori-
ties in each of the eight provinces directly affected by the Project
(Khartoum, Gezeira, White Nile, North and South Kordofan, North and South
Darfur, and Bahr el Ghazel) which provided for the agreement of the provin-
cial authorities not to set livestock prices or to place restrictions on the
movement of trade stock out of a province (para 4.03), and which also covered
the timing of the takeover of the markets by LMMC, the allocation of the net
income from the markets, and the agreement of the provincial authorities not
to impose any additional taxes on LMMC market or railway installations (para
4.04).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$25 million to the Government of
the Sudan.






SCHEDULE A
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Disbursements from the Credit account would be made over six years on
the following basis:
US$ million
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for locomotives,
wagons and vans                                                 9.5
(b) Transport Infrastructure
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported construction material and equipment
and 45% when locally purchased                             2.0
(ii)  50% of local expenditures for civil works                  0.6
(c) Market Infrastructure
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported construction material and equipment
and 50% when purchased locally                             1.5
(ii)  50% of local expenditures for civil works                  0.3
(iii)  50% of operating costs                                     1.9
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles and equipment and 60% when purchased locally           2.0
(e) Water Supply
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and 50% when purchased locally                   1.0
(ii)  50% of local expenditures for civil works                  0.3
(f)  LMMC Headquarters
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for the employment
of a Field Livestock and Meat Marketing Expert             0.3
(ii)  50% of local costs of buildings                            1.5
(iii)  60% of operating costs                                     0.6
(g)  Refunding of Project Preparation Facility                       0.4
(h)  An unallocated amount representing a part of price
contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as appropriate                                          3.1
Total IDA Credit       25.0



SUDAN
ANNEX 4
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT                                             Table 1
Suwnary of Project Costs
(LSd. '000)
Component                                                               Years                                                                  Total            Foreign         Taxes &
2  3          4                   5                6            ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~Years 1 -6  Exchange  Duties
2                 3                 4                   5                6                                   %               %
a)  Livestock Transport                 1,311               1,311             2,952               324                 233              153               6,284            66               23
b)  Transport Infrastructure               -                1,872               535                179                204              222               3,012            42               14
c)  Market Infrastructure                   41                884               677               437                 290              323               2,652            35               12
d)  LtMC Headquarters                     452                 711               712                402                345               325              2,947            26               11
e)  Technical Assistsnce                   157                172               184                189                154                14                870            76                -
TOTAL BASE COST                  1,961              4,950              5, 060            1,531               1, 226           1, 037             15, 765           49              16
Physical Contingency 1/               196                 495               506               153                 122              103               1,575            49               16
Price Contingency 2/                   50                617              1,030               445                 474              542               3,158            46               16
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                246              1,112              1,536               598                 596              645               4,733            47               16
TOTAL PROJECT COST               2,207              6,062              6,596             2,129               1,822            1,682              20,498            49               16
1/ 107. of Base Cost
2/   1)  Base Costs are estimated as of February 1978
ii) Projected price increases are based on IBRD guidelines
and projectionsof domestic price inflation in the Sudan.
1978     1979    1980-83
Civil Works - Foreign Cost    97.         9%       8%
- Local Cost      13/.     11%       87.
Vehicles & Equipment          7.5%       7.5%      7%
February 16, 1978



ANNEX '
Table 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                             at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
1977/78
March 31, 1978
June 30, 1978 1/
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                  _
December 31, 1978                                   800
March 31, 1979                                    1,600
June 30, 1979                                     2,400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                3,400
December 31, 1979                                 4,400
March 31, 1980                                    5,400
June 30, 1980                                     6,400
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                8,000
December 31, 1980                                 9,500
March 31, 1981                                   11,000
June 30, 1981                                    12,500
1981/82
September 30, 1981                               13,500
December 31, 1981                                14,500
March 31, 1982                                   15,500
June 30, 1982                                    16,500
1982/83
September 30, 1982                               17,500
December 31, 1982                                18,500
March 31, 1983                                   19,500
June 30, 1983                                    20,000
1983/84
September 30, 1983                               20,500
December 31, 1983                                21,000
March 31, 1984                                   21,500
June 30, 1984 2/                                 22,000
1984/85
September 30, 1984                               23,500
December 31, 1984 3/                             25,000
1/ Expected date of effectiveness, June 1, 1978.
2/ Expected date of project completion, May 31, 1984.
3/ Closing date, December 31, 1984.



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Year 6
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
PROCUREMENT
DELIVER                             _  .  _
OPERATION                           _      _              _               m _                        _    _
MARKET & RAILWAY
INFRASTRUCTURE
PROCUREMENT                 _          _
CONSTRUCTION
RAILWAY HOLDING YARDS                                     _
RAILWAY TRANSIT YARDS                      _       =  =              _
RAILWAY TERMINAL YARD                      _  _        -
TERMINAL MARKETS                           _       -  -  -
SECONDARY MARKETS                             _                           _
PRIMARY MARKETS                                    _      _        _  _  _  _  _                 -
HEADQUARTERS UNIT
STAFF RECRUITMENT           -  _
VEHICLE PROCUREMENT
ARCHITECT FIRM PROCUREMENT
DESIGN & TENDER DOCUMENTS
OFFICE CONSTRUCTION                             _  -          _      _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            -  -                                 _
TRAINING                    -   _          _  _                                                              -
STUDI ES                 _ _                       -  - _ _           - _        -
World Bank- 17693



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
General
1.        The Sudan Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) was
established by Presidental Decree on October 17, 1976 1/. The Order of
Establishment pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the Public Corporation Law of 1976
was enacted by the Prime Minister on May 12, 1977. The Minister of Agricul-
ture, Food and Natural Resources has overall responsibility for the policies
and activities of the LMMC. He reviews its annual budgets and work programs,
and if acceptable, then submits the budget to the central budgetary authorities.
2.        The purposes of the LMMC as stated in the Order of Establishment
are to:
(a) "Draw up and organize a plan for the marketing of meat
and livestock within and without the Sudan and offer
advice and consultative services to State agencies con-
cerned with such matters, to producers and to consumers.
(b) Regulate purchase, sales distribution, shipment and
delivery of meat and livestock.
(c) Proffer services and facilities required by opera-
tors in meat and livestock production, and improve
the quality of such production.
(d) Endeavor to strike a balance between local require-
ments for meat and livestock, and the need to ex-
port meat and livestock abroad.
(e) Carry out research work, studies, surveys and collect
information on foreign markets, production and local
consumption of livestock and meat."
1/   The LMMC is the fifth such institution to be established in East Africa,
being modelled in many respects after the Rhodesian Cold Storage Com-
mission, the Tanzania Meat Commission, the Kenya Meat Commission and
the Botswana Meat Commission. It differs from those previously estab-
lished institutions in one major respect in that it is conceived as a
purely service oriented institution which aims at enhancing the market-
ing and transport of livestock and livestock products; it will not pur-
chase or sell livestock on its own account.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
In order to carry out these functions the LMI1C has been granted the authority
to:
(a) "Establish, manage, develop and organize, in co-
operation with other competent bodies, the mar-
keting of livestock in the Sudan.
(b) Provide and regulate transport facilities to ship
livestock and meat by rail, road, air and river.
(c) Establish and manage stockyards for the movement
of livestock and meat by rail, road transport,
air and river transport.
(d) Collect all dues charged for the above services." 1/
A. Organizational Structure
3.        The LMMC is headed by a Board of Directors.  The Board establishes
general policy and supervises the operation of the Corporation. The Board is
comprised of the:
(a)  Undersecretary of the Ministry of Finance and National
Economy or his Deputy;
(b)  Undersecretary of the Ministry of Trade and Supplies
or his Deputy;
(c)  Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications or his Deputy;
(d)  Undersecretary for Livestock Resources, Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources or his
Deputy;
(e) Advisor for Local Peoples Government;
(f) Two representatives of the Livestock Breeders Union
to be selected by the Union;
(g) A representative of the Livestock and Meat Traders
and Exporters Board to be selected by the Board; and
1/   At the time of appraisal it was expected that the LMMC would be given
the responsibility of managing Government owned export abattoirs
(presently only the Kadero abattoir) which are presently under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources. No final decision
has as yet been reached on this matter.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(h) A representative of the Butchers' Union to be selected
by the Union.
Director General's Office
4.        The Director General (DG) is specifically charged with en-
suring that the policy decisions of the Board of Directors are carried out,
and he has overall responsibility for day-to-day administration of
LMMC activities. Two Senior Advisors report directly to the DG - the
Legal Advisor and the Construction Liaison Officer. The Legal Advisor will
oversee all legal aspects of the Corporation's activities; he will give par-
ticular attention to the drafting and execution of contracts entered into
by LMMC with other corporations (particularly the Sudan Railways Corporation)
or Government bodies. The Construction Liaison Officer will be responsible
for coordination of all communications with the Ministry of Public Works
with regard to construction of LMMC installations both in Khartoum and else-
where in the country. He will also supervise the construction program, en-
sure the timely availability of construction materials, and establish and
coordinate a time-table for the execution of LMMC's construction program.
5.        Three Directors will eventually report to the DG - namely the
Director for Finance and Administration, the Director for Domestic Markets and
the Director for Marketing Research. Each of these would be assisted by an
internationally recruited advisor.
Department of Finance and Administration
6.        The office of the Director would include an internationally re-
cruited adviser, an Internal Auditor and a Procurement Officer. Three
Assistant Directors (AD) would report to the Director - namely, the AD for
Personnel, the AD for Office Management and the AD for Accounts. The Per-
sonnel Officer would deal with all matters pertaining to the hiring and
firing of staff, and authorize all salaries, leave and promotions as approved
by the Director. The Office Manager's office would be responsible for all
matters pertaining to the supply of office materials to headquarters and
field offices. It would oversee the LMMC communications section, the car and
typing pools, drivers, maintenance personnel and the messenger service. The
communications section would be particularly important for the efficient
functioning of LMMC. As telephone links can only be relied upon within
Khartoum and between the major towns in the eastern provinces, a radio com-
munications network would be established linking LMMC's headquarters with
its markets and railway transport facilities throughout the country. The
Assistant Director for Accounts would be responsible for accounts and budget.
A prime responsibility of this officer would be to establish a centralized
system of accounting for recording licensing, export and market fees as
well as for transport charges based on simple documentation procedures.
Department of Domestic Markets
7.        This department would have overall responsibility for the develop-
ment of livestock marketing infrastructure and services throughout the



ANNEX 6
Page 4
country. An internationally recruited Livestock and Meat Marketing Advisor
would advise the Director on general policy matters, and would help prepare
a long term program for the rational exploitation of Sudan's livestock re-
sources. The Department would concentrate its activities in two main areas:
(a) the establishment and/or improvement of a well function-
ing nationwide marketing system; and
(b) the establishment of a reliable livestock transport
service to allow the rapid and efficient movement
of stock from the producing areas to Khartoum and to
Port Sudan.
8.        Market Development.  While the Livestock and Meat Marketing Advisor
would help to establish general policies, the two internationally recruited
Regional Livestock Marketing Advisors would be responsible for the estab-
lishment of the LMMC field service. This field service would be organized
around 12 Provincial Livestock Marketing Offices - one in each of 11 live-
stock production areas and one in Khartoum; these offices would be headed
by a Provincial Livestock Marketing Officer (PLMO), and would be located
either in the Provincial capital or at one of the major secondary markets.
The PLMO's would supervise a staff of 8 persons, except in the three most
important centers (Nyala, El Obeid and Babanusa), where an Assistant Live-
stock Marketing Officer would be posted. In addition to these staff, the
PLMO would supervise the LMMC staff stationed at the secondary markets under
his jurisdiction, as well as the mobile marketing teams operating out of
these markets. Finally, the PLMO would have direct responsibility for the
operation of the railway holding yards and railway transit yards in his
Province, although primary authority would in this case rest with the Live-
stock Transport Officer (para 10).
9.        The PLMO's would be senior grade civil servants; each would be
required to have an exceptional administrative expertise and an ability to
work closely with Provincial and other local authorities and traders. He
would, among his other duties, be responsible for licensing of middlemen and
traders, collection of market fees and their deposit in an account established
by LMMC at a local bank, collection of market information and records, and
supervision of local training (in conjunction with the Regional Livestock
Marketing Officers and the LMMC Sociologist stationed in Khartoum).
10.       Livestock Transport.  Primary responsibility for the design, con-
struction and operation of the railway transport facilities (railway hold-
ing yards, railway transit yards and the Soba railway terminal yard) would
be given to the internationally recruited Livestock Transport Officer (LTO).
He would coordinate operation of the livestock block trains with Sudan Rail-
ways (see Annex 2) officials. He would in this regard be in constant communi-
cation with the Superintendents of the holding yards and transit yards in
order to monitor the build-up of stock at these locations, thus ensuring
optimum scheduling of trains. On his appointment, the Livestock Transport
Officer would be supported by a Sudanese counterpart; the counterpart would



ANNEX 6
Page 5
receive intensive training and would by the end of year 4 assume full respon-
sibility for the LTU's duties. The internationally recruited expert would
continue to serve LMMC over the next two years; at that time his primary
concern would be the preparation of plans for future development of livestock
rail transport, as well as investigation into the possibilities of LMMC's
involvement in river transport of stock from the south by barge to the Khar-
toum area.
Department of Market Research
11.       The Director of Market Research would oversee the activities of a
small research staff headed by an internationally recruited Livestock and
Meat Marketing Economist. This staff would:
(a) collect all available information on internal and
external markets;
(b) design a recording system aimed at filling the gaps
on present information on supply, demand and consump-
tion of livestock in the Sudan;
(c) seek the assistance of consultants to carry out studies
of both export and domestic market prospects (Appendix 3);
(d) monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare relevant reports including the Project completion
report;
(e) identify and prepare other projects relevant to the
responsibilities of the LMMC;
(f) prepare the DG's submissions to the Board and advise
the Board on policy questions;
(g) coordinate LMMC activities with related Government
Agencies (notably, Ministry of Trade, the Bank of
Sudan and the Animal Resources Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources);
and
(h) supervise and monitor private sector enterprises in
the field of livestock trade, fattening, processing
and export.
B. Prolect Support for LMMC
12.       The creation of LMMC represents the Government's first attempt to
provide a single administrative unit with full responsibility for the mar-
keting of livestock and meat in the Sudan. The establishment of a new in-
stitution with such wide-ranging responsibilities will be a complicated and



ANNEX 6
Page 6
lengthy undertaking, and one which will require dedication and cooperation
on the part of both the LMMC staff and the staff of other administrative
bodies concerned. The Project would support the development of LMMC over the
first 6 years of its existence, providing staff salaries, vehicles and equip-
ment, offices, housing, technical assistance and training.
Staff and Staff Salaries
13.       At full development the LMMC would employ some 665 persons; in
addition to the 6 internationally recruited technical experts, these would
include some 29 senior level and 94 intermediate level staff, 192 clerical
staff and drivers, and 344 laborers. Well over two thirds of these staff
would be stationed in the field - mainly in western Sudan. In order to
alleviate any difficulties in recruiting LMMC staff, all staff would be paid
at the wage levels prevailing in corporations which operate predominantly on
commercial principles. In addition, housing would be built for almost all
senior and intermediate staff, and where required, special allowances (furni-
ture, travel, etc.) would also be paid.
Technical Assistance
14.       As the LMMC represents Government's first effort to involve itself
directly in livestock marketing policies and procedures, it will be of vital
importance that the Corporation begins immediately to build a highly trained
and technically competent staff. The seven internationally recruited techni-
cal experts - a Livestock and Meat Marketing Advisor, a Livestock and Meat
Marketing Economist, an Advisor for Finance and Administration, a Livestock
Transport Advisor, two Regional Livestock Marketing Advisors, and a Clerk of
Works - would play an important role in the training of Sudanese staff (see
the Terms of Reference, Appendix 1). Specifically they would:
(a) advise the Director General on all aspects of the or-
ganization and management of the corporation;
(b) train their counterpart staff and design and super-
vise training programs for field staff;
(c) initiate a program for informing traders and producers
on the objectives and programs of LNMC;
(d) help establish a system for market information retrieval
and for the dissemination of information to traders
and producers; and
(e) advise on the long term development of LMMC's activities,
and investigate the possibilities of a second stage mar-
keting project.
In the first 1-2 years of the Project these internationally recruited staff
would serve in line positions, while their Sudanese counterparts receive
training both abroad and within the Sudan (see Appendix 2). This counterpart



ANNEX 6
Page 7
training would then be supplemented by on-the-job training over the remaining
Project years.
15.       The mobile market teams would play an important role in dissemi-
nating information with regard to the purposes and programs of LMMC. They
would regularly visit the primary markets in their jurisdiction and, in con-
junction with their other duties, would establish contact with the traders
and producers in order to familiarize them with all aspects of the revised
marketing procedures being introduced by LMMC. The Sociologist stationed
at LMMC headquarters in Khartoum would be primarily responsible for the
preparation of a non-formal education program for the dissemination of this
information; he would be responsible also for the training of the mobile
team members as agents in this effort.
C. LMMC Cooperation with Other Corporations and Ministries
Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC)
16.       SRC would procure, own, maintain and operate all livestock transport
equipment (locomotives, vans, double-deck sheep wagons, spare parts, etc.)
to be procured under the Project. SRC would in turn lease this equipment to
LMMC, along with single-deck livestock wagons from its existing fleet. An
agreement has been signed between SRC and LMMC specifying lease tetms, guaran-
tees as to equipment availability, maintenance procedures, scheduling and
operation of the block trains, and any other matters of mutual concern to
the two corporations. The closest possible cooperation between LMMC's Trans-
port Office and the Traffic Department of SRC will be a major prerequisite
for the successful execution of the Project. In addition, policy matters
of a more general nature will be negotiated either between the respective
heads of the two Corporations, or between the Minister of Agriculture, Food
and Natural Resources, and the Minister of Transport.
Ministry of Construction and Public Works
17.       The Ministry of Construction and Public Works would be responsible
for the construction of Project market and transport infrastructure, as well
as for construction of staff offices and housing. LMMC would enter into a
contract with the Ministry specifying the responsibilities of both parties
with regard to procurement of materials, design of structures, rate of con-
struction etc. It is expected that LMMC would be responsible for procurement
and delivery of all materials to the construction site, and for determining
construction priorities. A Construction Liaison Officer in the Director
General's Office (para 4) would be responsible for coordination of the con-
struction program.
Ministry of Agriculture. Food and Natural Resources
18.       The LMMC would rely on the Animal Resources Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture to provide veterinary and certain other services at



ANNEX 6
Page 8
LMMC installations. The Department also provides additional services which
would directly complement LMMC activities. These services include:
(a) veterinary services including disease reporting,
vaccination programs, and inspection quarantining
of trade stock;
(b) operation of the Government export abbatoir at
Kadero; and
(c) operation and development of stockroute facilities.
The overall technical responsibility for animal disease control at LMMC
facilities would rest with the Animal Resources Department. Veterinary
staff needed at these installations would be seconded to LMMC by the Depart-
ment, which would remain responsible for technical supervision (through the
District Veterinary Officers) and for supplies. The LMMC would employ the
staff and cover all costs related to their duties. Quarantine requirements
for live animals for export would continue to be regulated by the Veterinary
Service, as would responsibility for enforcement of restrictions on the
movement of livestock within the country, and the development of quality
standards for meat. The collection of data would be of vital importance to
LMMC, as the availability of adequate statistics would be essential in the
design and evaluation of future marketing policies and projects. Particular
attention would be given to the collection of data on:
(a) numbers of stock traded at primary, secondary and term-
inal markets;
(b) number of stock transported by rail by LMMC; and
(c) numbers of stock exported.
Coordination of information gathering both at department level and between
the District Veterinary Officers and the Provincial Livestock Marketing
Officers would avoid duplication and greatly enhance the quality of the data
collected.
The Animal Production Public Corporation
19.      The Animal Production Public Corporation (APPC) was established in
1976 as a public corporation under the supervision of the Minister of Agri-
culture. The purposes of the corporation, as stated in its constituent regu-
lations, are:
(a) to participate in the general planning for animal produc-
tion activities;
(b) to exercise supervision over production in the sub-
sidiary corporations and related production units
within the framework of the country's general policy



ANNEX 6
Page 9
for animal production and in accordance with inte-
grated plans ensuring optimum utilization of avail-
able natural resources and investment elements on
sound commercial, economic and scientific lines to
realize optimal economic and social benefits by such
measures as it (the Corporation) may deem necessary
to achieve such purposes. Such measures shall include
the following:
(i)  owning or holding land and the right of dis-
tribution thereof for the purpose of invest-
ment in the field of animal production;
(ii) production, purchase, fattening, sale and dis-
tribution of meat animals, poultry and fish and
by-products, as well as organizing the market-
ing thereof;
(iii) production and improvement of fodder and other
animal feed and establishment of, or partici-
pation in, establishments producing feed for
animals, poultry and fish;
(iv) establishment of animal production projects
and the construction, possession and opera-
tion of abattoirs, cold-storage facilities,
plants and factories connected with meat and
establishments manufacturing other meat ani-
mals, poultry and fish products whenever any
such action is designed to serve the purposes
of the Corporation;
(v)  supervise applied research work on projects of
the Public Corporation to insure improvement
of, and increased production;
(vi) participate in research work with a view to
improving the quality of meat animals, poul-
try and fish in general; and
(vii)  take any other such measures as shall be ne-
cessary or which may lead to the achievement
of the said purposes, in cooperation with
all competent bodies.
With LMMC established as a purely service oriented corporation the APPC be-
comes complementary in the sense that Government through the APPC may in-
vest in production oriented projects and the establishment of cooperatives
for backgrounding, finishing, marketing and exporting of livestock and
meats, thus further improving the competitive structure of the industry. A



ANNEX 6
Page 10
review of the legislation of the APPC may be necessary, however, to eliminate
the risk of overlapping responsibilities with regard to LMMC (see (ii) and
(iv) above).
The Sea Ports Corporation
20.       Formerly a department of the Sudan Railways Corporation, the Sea
Ports Corporation was established in July 1974, under the Ministry of Defense
with the responsibility of administering all Sudanese sea Ports (presently
only Port Sudan). In 1977 it was put under the Ministry of Transport.
SPC is headed by a full time Chairman assisted by four senior officers based
in Khartoum; these staff are responsible for the overall planning, direc-
tion and control of SPC, and for liaison with Government and other agencies
both within and outside the Sudan. Until the new port of Suakin is opera-
tional, the General Manager at Port Sudan is SPC's chief operating officer.
Five senior executives report directly to the General Manager: the Directors
of Cargo Operations, Technical Services, Personnel and Training, Finance, and
Administration. The LMMC would rely on the Sea Ports Corporation for the
construction of livestock holding and ship-loading facilities within the port
area. The LMMC would provide the necessary construction plans and specifica-
tions for the holding pens, races, and block train unloading facilities. A
Construction Liason Officer within the Director General's Office would be
responsible for coordination of the construction program.
D. Role of the LMMC in the Long Term Development of
Livestock Marketing in the Sudan
21.      For decades the Sudan has been considered a potentially important
supplier of livestock and meat to Middle Eastern markets. The development
of this export potential has been hampered, however, by conflicting Govern-
ment policies and by transport and organizational difficulties. Specifi-
cally, Government export quotas and bans have made it virtually impossible
for Sudanese exporters to enter into long term supply contracts; buyers have
consequently turned to suppliers who could guarantee the long term relia-
bility of their shipments. The domestic livestock markets have likewise
been affected by seasonal supply problems (and hence often sharply fluc-
tuating prices) stemming from the lack of an organized marketing system and
the absence of the market infrastructure and transport facilities so neces-
sary to ensure adequate and reliable supplies of stock to urban markets.
Government addressed a number of these problems in its enumeration of LMMC's
powers and responsibilities. In the long run it expects that LMMC will be
able to:
(a) facilitate and accelerate the flow of marketed livestock,
thus reducing the costs and risks involved in the ex-
traction, finishing and export of livestock and meat;
(b) increase competition in the livestock trade, thus allow-
ing a greater share of profits to be earned by the pro-
ducers;



ANNEX 6
Page 11
(c) collect and disseminate the market information essen-
tial for rational decision making and for the design
of national livestock and meat marketing policies;
(d) ease the pressure on range areas in the west by assist-
ing in the stratification of the livestock industry
through the transfer of immatures to the modernized
agricultural areas in the east for finishing, prior
to consumption or export;
(e) encourage the expansion of livestock exports through
the formulation of more liberal export policies and
through the simplification of the bureaucratic pro-
cedures involved by centralizing responsibility for
approval of contracts and issuing of export permits
in one agency;
(f) undertake measures to develop confidence among importers
of Sudanese livestock and meat in a steady supply of
high quality animals; and
(g) encourage the flow of investments into the livestock
industry by introducing long term planning as a means
of preventing disruptive interventions and by allow-
ing private enterprise to develop the industry with
the least possible constraints.
It is realized by Government that the establishment of such a comprehensive
program will inevitably require a number of years. LMMC will first need
to acquire a competent and highly motivated staff, the recruitment and training
of which will necessarily require some time. LMMC will then gradually ex-
pand its control over the country's hundreds of markets and market related
facilities; this process will begin with the establishment and/or improve-
ment of those markets and transport facilities included under the proposed
Project, and would then expand in several stages to cover the entire coun-
try. It is visualized that some 15-20 years would be required before LMMC
would be ready to assume responsibility for the operation of all live-
stock markets and related facilities. This process would require at least
two further investment programs similar to the proposed Project. Conse-
quently, over the Project period, the Marketing Research Department would
be responsible for the collection of the necessary data to permit the iden-
tification and preparation of a possible second livestock marketing project.
In this first phase of development the LMMC would concentrate its efforts
in what is presently the main supply areas in the western provinces, and on
the solution of transport problems resulting from the long distances between
these areas and the main consumer and export markets. A second phase of
development would have a major emphasis on marketing and transport within
and from the southern provinces along the Blue and White Nile Rivers, and
would be aimed at tapping the major surplus area of Junglei Province. The
third development phase would aim at market and transort facilities in the



ANNEX 6
Page 12
southern and eastern provinces. LMMC's development of a national livestock
marketing system will depend for its ultimate success on the parallel de-
velopment of animal production in the areas to which marketing and transport
services are provided. Whereas LMMC through improved marketing would provide
the incentive to increasing the offtake flow, other projects providing for
better utilization of the range resource, improved production systems and
provision of services and credit must follow in order to justify such a major
investment as is being proposed. Identification and preparation of such
projects would have a high priority and deserve serious consideration by
Government. As mentioned the proposed Project concentrates on the western
provinces. As soon as LMMC is firmly established and has gained operational
experience, a series of smaller defined projects could be identified on
a provincial basis which would deal with further development of the market
structure. Such projects would be on a scale ideally suited for bilateral
financing.
November 10, 1977



SIUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
LMMC ORGANIZATION
-A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A- _    I--- ---                                  11,11, IEI,=I----I
A.- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                           212I22K
IT0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                                        I           ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                      -A0  T         1IA   2.- 1         2SIl 
LI.TOK      A OKVC                IETC                   IKTO                                                                 OSO                I222Kh2120lVKALK                                                          KTOK2K00
1.1MV      I L.1M12               IA.0-                                                                   KM                                        I f.-A.0 CO-N           R.I-E0 CI..TI 10I0I0I
EKOOKIM  ARRIL                                                 EAE2NII22                                     ORTI                  KKN0OR                200~~~~~~~~~~~EL~11
M.,          ARKET                MATRA-T                                      MARKET M0K               GOTMCE                                                            MARKET
A=        I Gl=-                 I All-                100-                   I                      I001    A100,,:,,01                                                   1201 
MAK7WT-    MRKET,IbNG TE             .,ME                  0000                00A0110                AOKAMK                  20 TE-.A00210                                1022K2                 o.IO            
AEIO.      ClOR                   110                   000                     200               .11.,10111OOIT20.
.. ...... .........   ......                              ............  20011   ............. ...........200                                                                0  100ol         
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0                                                                    001                     2.0                   2.0                     210021                                       00
12.1210.  I0.0M10   121110            1201211               12,11.1                1201~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~~~~~~...........022...201
0211000.1  2.000.1.0  0.AOOIIOO  0.00001                2V0011M101             120,0010              02.000010          .02.0100                   A101R.00A               0.T0.10-20T111A-
2011001 K2K0A00RATUAMEIAlA~.  EIATIKCIRGIIT  RAKGLIOIROGII     KII2GUI2CIRK I _K AIEIII.IICI 






ANNEX 9
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A. Future Livestock Traffic
1.        The incremental demand for railway transport of livestock on
average over the Project life would be:
Thousand Head
Western Provinces to Khartoum:
Sheep                      1,880
Cattle                        278
Khartoum to Port Sudan:
Sheep                         992
Cattle                         24
Annex 7, Tables 3 and 4 contain a detailed projection of annual demand for
railway transport of livestock as it relates to the global flow of live-
stock in the Sudan.
2.        As Annex 2, Table 1 shows, the Project would provide the 1NMC
with the annual capacity to transport a somewhat lower number of animals
than the estimated incremental demand. Beginning in year 7 the livestock
block trains would have an annual capacity of 807,000 sheep and 60,000 head of
cattle. At an average load factor of 90%, the actual annual incremental
livestock traffic would be 726,000 sheep and 54,000 head of cattle, beginning
in year 7. The reasons for these conservative traffic estimates are two-fold:
(a) while the incremental demand function is continuous, the incre-
mental capacity function is discrete; and
(b) short term swings in demand for railway transport of livestock
could reduce the average load factor if actual capacity were
near or equal to long term demand.
Additional capacity could be provided only with the addition of one train;
it appears, however, that the total capacity achieved with five block trains
would be excessive. A further constraint to the provision of additional
capacity is the number of stations that the livestock block trains would
have to serve and the load capacity of individual livestock wagons. The
livestock block trains would serve eight stations each with different traffic
patterns; each double-deck wagon can carry up to 200 sheep and each single



ANNEX 9
Page 2
deck wagon can carry up to 25 cattle. The maximum allowable number of
wagons in a block train is 27. To satisfy marginal demand at the cost
of lower load factors or lower equipment utilization would increse the
livestock transport costs and would have to be reflected in higher freight
rates. Annex 2, Table 2 shows the estimated actual livestock traffic by
station and by carload.
3.        The procurement of the rolling stock and spare parts for the
LMIC livestock block trains is expected to take approximately two years.
Traders' acceptance of the new service is conservatively estimated to be
low in the first years of operation. The block train concept is new to
SRC and the LMMC is a young institution which would be dealing with its
first major project. For these reasons, actual traffic on the LMMC live-
stock block trains during Project years 3 through 6 is conservatively esti-
mated to make a slow start. During Project year 3 it is estimated that the
LMMC livestock block trains would carry 194,000 sheep and 14,000 cattle, about
one quarter of the number of animals projected to be carried annually during
years 7 through 22. Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2 show the detailed annual livestock
traffic projections by number of animals and by carloads. Lower traffic in
the early years of Project life would require lower utilization of the motive
power and rolling stock. Table 1 shows that locomotive months would gradually
increase from 108 in Project year 3 to 132 1/ in year 7 when all locomotives
will be in use by the LMMC; Table 1 also shows that single deck wagon months
would increase from 261 to 744 over the same period. The equipment that LNMC
would not utilize in the initial Project years would be utilized by SRC. The
double-deck wagons would not be fully utilized by the LMMC nor by the SRC in
the initial Project years and LMMC would have to pay SRC for their availability.
It is vital, however, that, in the early Project years, the LMMC run a minimum
of scheduled service to attract and impress potential customers and satisfy
possible sudden demand peaks. The need to run the trains, whether these are
loaded or not, in order to promote customers' acceptance, would result in a
low load factor in the early Project years. Another element contributing to a
low load factor in the early Project years is demand seasonality. Livestock
traders could be initially more inclined to use the train at certain times of
the year because of   stronger demand from the consuming areas and more
prohibitive trekking conditions. Demand seasonality is gradually expected to
disappear beyond year 7 as the traffic flow adapts itself to the available
transport capacity. Annex 2, Table 3 shows the projected seasonality distri-
bution of livestock traffic during Project years 3 through 6. Table 4 shows
the projected load factors on the LMMC livestock block trains for each Project
year; these range from 60% in Project year 3, the first year of block trains
operation, to 90% in years 7 through 22.
4.        The traffic assumptions outlined in the preceding paragraphs and
summarized in Tables 1 through 4 of this Annex are the basis for the
financial projections of 1IMC and SRC. This are intentionally conservative,
for to provide now for marginal demand for certain peak periods of the year
1/   Locomotive months for 10 locomotives plus a 10% allocation for spare
parts.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
might reduce load factors and increase costs and would have to be reflected
into higher freight rates. The minimization of the livestock supply season-
ality in the consuming areas is one of the objectives of this Project. Pro-
viding limited rail transport capacity year-round would help to force
the peaks out of the livestock supply flow. The system provides a certain
degree of flexibility in that the railway equipment could be re-allocated
among different lines and stations, if necessary, and, if a temporary
condition of over-capacity were to occur, the LMMC could turn excess motive
power and rolling stock over to SRC to be utilized for the transport of
general freight; SRC's current overall capacity is insufficient to meet
traffic demand.
B. Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
Market Operations
5.        The LMMC market and export fees would be set to insure the full
recovery of operating costs and a provision for capital replacement. Table
2 sets out in detail the LMMC projected revenue from marketing that would
be necessary to achieve the Project's financial objective at a break-even
level of market and export fees. Appendix 1 details the assumptions
underlying the projections. The projections are stated in 1978 constant
monetary units. For the sake of simplicity all internal market related
revenues have been expressed in terms of markets fees per head and all
external trade related revenues have been expressed in terms of export fees
per head. This approach does not preclude the actual allocation of equi-
valent amounts within each category to different revenue accounts. For
example, the LMMC is considering the issuance of trade-stock movement
permits which would allow it to monitor more closely the livestock flow
through the country. On the export side, ad valorem export licences are
currently being issued by the Controller of Exports as well as per head
export fees. Whatever collection means the LMIC would find more appro-
priate, however, it would be in their best financial interest to design and
follow the simplest possible collection procedures.
6.        The projection is based on two critical assumptions:  (i) that
the livestock flow will materialize as forecast in Annex 7; and (ii) that
50% of the animals will, on average, be traded at a market twice before
export or slaughter. As regards the first assumption, the recent national
survey of livestock, and the fairly conservative technical parameters on
which the forecast is based justify a higher degree of confidence than in
earlier forecasts (see Annex 7). The second assumption appears reasonable
in light of the incentives that would be provided by the improved marketing
infrastructure provided by the Project    to utilize the official marketing
channels.
7.        Projections are stated in constant 1978 monetary units.  This
assumes that market and export fees would be adjusted to reflect future
cost increases. The projections should assume any other fee increases.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Provisions for capital replacements assume full amortization of buildings
and installations in 20 years, vehicle and equipment in 5 years and tech-
nical assistance in 10 years.
8.        Currently the livestock markets administration is controlled
by the provincial governments. Market fees vary widely from one market to
another and the collection rate also varies widely. The LMMC would gradually
assume control of all markets from the provincial governments. In order to
insure the smooth transfer of authority, the LMMC would continue to pay the
provinces according to their present income from market operations and would
employ present staff. An agreement would be reached whereby the provinces
would also be assured a reasonable share of incremental income from market
operations. The projection assumes that current provincial income from market
fees would increase in fiscal years 1977 and 1978 at the same rate as in
fiscal year 1976 (which was 8%). The same annual increase was assumed in the
projection to determine the amount of revenue sharing in Project years one
through six; the amount of revenue sharing of the provincial governments was
held constant thereafter for the remainder of Project life.
9.        By charging market fees of LSd 1.00 per head of cattle and
bSd 0.50 per sheep and export fees of bSd 2.00 per head of cattle and
1Sd 1.00 per sheep, the LMMC would fully recover its operating and capital
costs and share market revenues with the provincial governments over the
life of the Project. The projection shows a deficit building up during
the Project implementation period, which would be offset by an equal sur-
plus over the life of the Project. The capital replacement, however, is a
non cash provision and the LMMC would be in a position to meet easily its
financial obligations. The grant nature of Government's contribution to
the LMMC, would allow LMMC to fund its capital replacement needs out of
internally generated cash flow, having to rely on additional Government
grants only if the Government wished to undertake new Projects or expand
existing facilities.
Railway Transport of Livestock - Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement
10.       The financial projections related to the operations of the
livestock block trains assume that LMMC would start the railway transport
of livestock in Project year 3. Equipment utilization and load factors
would steadily increase through year 7 to accommodate the projected
increase in traffic demand and stabilize thereafter for the remainder of
Project life (at which point the LMMC would have reached its goal to fully
utilize the equipment and operate with load factors averaging 90%). The
projections are stated in constant 1978 monetary units. Assumptions underly-
ing the financial forecasts are set out in Appendix 1.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
11.       As a result of the conservative traffic projections discussed in
the preceding section, and the need to establish a credibility with the
potential users of the new service, the LMMC would operate at a loss during
the first four years of train operation. The loss would be offset by the
profits accumulated in the subsequent years of the livestock block trains
operation.
12.       The lease agreement between the LMMC and the SRC would put the
burden of the operating leverage on the LNIMC. At the full utilization
level projected for year 7 and thereafter, LMMC would break-even with a
load factor of 87%. As a practical matter, however, the lease agreement
would provide a certain degree of flexibility to the LMIIC, because it would
allow the carrier, if it so wished, to lease back part of the motive power
and the rolling stock to SRC in exchange for a rebate on the lease rental
payments, thus relieving the pressure from its fixed operating costs.
Currently SRC's capacity is not sufficient to meet existing demand for
railway transport.
13.       A rate of 33.5 pt per wagon loaded per km would be sufficient
to cover all LMMC operating and capital transportation costs. On a typical
run from El Obeid to Khartoum the fare would be bSd 1.15 per sheep and
LSd 9.23 per head of cattle.  The'rate assumes that 200 sheep would travel
in a double-deck wagon and 25 head of cattle would travel in a single deck
wagon.  SRC's 1976/77 fare on the same trip is oSd 0.58 per sheep and
bSd 2.81 per head of cattle.  These fares, however, do not cover SRC's
costs and the service is spotty and unreliable. Traders are seldom able
to find a wagon when they need it, and waits of a month or longer have
been reported. On time performance is poor, thus endangering the health
and condition of the animals. Several traders have expressed their desire
for an efficient and reliable train service and they have stated that they
are prepared to pay the higher price that such a service would command.
Details of the projection and the freight rate calculation are shown in
Tables 1 and 3.
Pro-forma Cash Flow
14.       Table 4 shows a projection of the LMMC block train operation
on a cash basis. As the freight rates would be paid exclusively in cash,
there would be no difference between accrued revenues and cash receipts.
The only timing difference between the pro-forma operating statements on an
accrual basis and on cash basis would arise from the payment of the rental
to SRC in monthly advances. The impact of the timing difference on the
L1IMC's annual and cumulatived working capital is detailed in Table 4.  The
Project would provide financing for the working capital needs of the
LIMC.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
C. Sudan Railways Corporation
Pro-forma Operating Statement
15.       The operating projections without Project are given in Table 12.
Assumptions underlying the financial forecasts without Project are contained
in Appendix 3. The pro-forma Incremental Statement of Profit and Loss is
given in Table 7. The assumptions underlying the financial forecasts related
to the Project are contained in Appendix 2.
16.       Rental income with the Project would steadily increase from
LSd 827,000 in fiscal 1981 to 1Sd 1,650,000 in fiscal 1985 and stabilize
thereafter. The increase reflects higher equipment utilization and higher
billings for operation and maintenance due to the projected increase in
livestock block train runs. It should be noted here that the rental income
to SRC is not directly related to traffic; increased traffic would bring
about an increase in SRC's rental income only to the extent that LMMC would
increase equipment utilization in order to meet increasing demand. The
business risk of actually filling the trains would be assumed by LNIMC.
17.       Table 10 illustrates that the incremental operations with the
Project would meet or exceed SRC's profitability standards without the
Project. A slightly higher operating ratio with the Project than without
the Project reflects more conservative assumptions on the depreciable life
of the capital assets. It should also be noted that the working arrange-
ment between SRC and LMMC would produce a 'reverse operating leverage'
effect on SRC's operating earnings; the operating profit margin, in fact,
in fiscal 1981 would be higher (about 31%) that it would be in fiscal 1986
(about 24%). 1986 revenues are projected to be about 100% higher than in
1981; by virtue of its operating leverage, a service company, such as SRC,
would normally be expected to achieve a higher operating profit margin at a
higher volume of operations. This favorable 'operating leverage inversion'
effect on SRC's operating statement would be the result of SRC's agreement
to grant the exclusive right to the utilization of the rolling stock to a
livestock carrier, the LMMC, which would assume SRC's normal business risk
as carrier.
18.       The lower volume of operations projected for the early Project
years would, however, have an adverse effect on SRC's net profit margins
related to the incremental operations with the Project, due to the impact
of financial leverage. SRC's incremental operations related to the Project
would show a net loss in fiscal years 1981 and 1982. The debt service and
interest coverage ratios would be lower with the Project than without the
Project in fiscal years 1981 through 1983. Details are shown in Table 10.
Two considerations, however, mitigate the impact of the deterioration of
SRC's profitability and its ability to service debt. The first considera-
tion is one of size: SRC's incremental revenue with the Project would
range from about 1% to about 2% of revenues without the Project; SRC's
incremental long term debt with the Project would be less than 7% of total



ANNEX 9
Page 7
long term debt at the highest point in fiscal 1981. The deterioration in
profitability and debt service ability, therefore, is not significant.
Secondly, as the loan would be amortized and interest payments decrease in
size during the latter years of Project life, SRC's profitability and debt
service ability would actually improve slightly over time with the Project.
The projected operating statements show that by fiscal year 2000, with the
Project, SRC would meet its last interest payment on the Project long
term debt and report 1Sd 3.5 million in incremental retained earnings.
Pro-forma Balance Sheet
19.       The pro-forma balance sheet without Project covers the first three
years of the Government's Six-Year Plan which became effective July 1, 1977
(Fiscal Year 1978). Estimates have been made of capital requirements for
the second three year phase of the Six-Year Plan and the first three years
of the subsequent Plan. These requirements are based on the continuation of
existing and recurring programs and estimated needs to meet growing traffic
demand.
20.       SRC ended 1976 with the best operating results since 1972, but
prior years' losses, coupled with the transfer of the profitable Port Sudan
operations to the Sea Ports Corporation and the purchase of new capital assets,
has raised problems of liquidity. Current liabilities exceeded current assets
by LSd 3.1 million. The major current obligation is the overdraft with the
Bank of Sudan. Starting from this negative position, it will take SRC until
approximately 1984 to attain a liquid position with a current ratio of 1:1.
However, from 1980 onwards, the position should improve each year.  The
Government has agreed to explore various means of injecting additional capital
into SRC, or guaranteeing continuing overdraft facilities, in order to help
it to meet obligations for some years to come.
21.       With the Project, LMMC would meet its rental obligations in monthly
advances. Although this arrangement would not help to relieve significantly
SRC's current liquidity position, because of the magnitude of the problem, it
would at least insure SRC against a further potential liquidity threat. The
solution to SRC's overall liquidity problem would have to come from Govern-
ment and should not be at the expense of a newly established Government
Corporation, the LMMC.
22.       Provision for depreciation of the Project related capital assets
has been charged on a straight line basis according to the estimated useful
life of the equipment as set out in Table 1 of this Annex. The provision
commences in the year in which the acquisition takes place. The pro-forma
balance sheet without the Project is set out in Table 13, the pro-forma
balance sheet with the Project in Table 8.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
23.       It is proposed that SRC's acquisition of the capital equipment
necessary to carry out this Project would be financed by a combination of
long term debt and equity. The foreign exchange cost of the equipment
excluding customs, or approximately 74% of the total cost of the capital
equipment, would be on-lent to SRC at the following terms: two-year drawdown
period, final maturity 20 years from the last drawdown, five year grace and
interest at 8% p.a. The balance of the capital equipment cost, representing
custom duties, would be a deferred liability of SRC.
24.       The debt ratio would increase by one to two percentage points as a
result of incremental borrowing to finance the capital assets that would be
utilized for the early years of Project life. The increase, however, would
not bring about a significant change in SRC's financial condition and would
be offset by an equivalent improvement in the latter years of Project life.
Details are shown in Tables 8 and 10.
Pro-forma Cash Flow
25.       The pro-forma annual incremental cash flows with the Project are
expected to be positive throughout the projection period. SRC's operations
would provide sufficient internally generated funds to cover all local and
foreign operating and maintenance costs, pay interest and amortize long
term debt. The cumulative incremental net cash flow throw off with the
Project would be 1Sd 5.0 million by fiscal year 2000.  Those funds would be
available for general corporate purposes or alternatively to finance the
acqusition of new capital equipment to be leased to the LMMC.  The proj-
ections assume that SRC's accounts payable and accrued liabilities related
to the Project would turn over in 60 days on the average. Table 9 sets out
in detail the favorable working capital impact of advance receipts on rental
payments combined with deferred payment on current liabilities.
26.       SRC's financial targets, according to its legislation, are to
guarantee adequate funds to cover its operating expenditure and debt service
obligations and to finance a reasonable part of investment needs, including
replacements. During the period of implementation of the Bank Group Fourth
Railway Project, 12/31/77 through 12/31/81, the Government and SRC have agreed
that SRC will not incur any additional debt if its net cash revenue for the
fiscal year or the 12 consecutive months immediately before the date of occur-
ence, whichever is greater, would be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements of any succeeding fiscal year. The proposed Project
would easily meet this test. Details are shown in Table 10.
27.       All projections are stated in constant monetary values.  This
assumes that freight tariffs and the flexible portion of the LMMC lease
rental will be adjusted to reflect future cost increases. The forecasts
do not assume any other tariff increases. In terms of a return on net fixed



ANNEX 9
Page 9
assets in use, SRC set a financial target of at least 6% per annum in 1981
and subsequent years. The SRC/LMMC lease agreement would contemplate a
return on depreciated fixed assets higher than 8 1/2% as the financial
analysis bears out.
Financial Internal Rate of Return on Project
28.       The financial internal rate of return was calculated by projecting
the operating statements of SRC with and without the Project setting out the
profit before depreciation and interest. The projections are done in con-
stant 1978 Sudanese pounds. With the Project, the net incremental cash flow
would be negative in fiscal years 1979, 1980, and 1981 when the acquisition
program is completed and would build up through fiscal 1985, to stabilize
in 1986 and thereafter when the level of operations is assumed to remain
constant. The financial internal rate of return for the Project investments
is 17%; the calculations are given in Table 11.
29.       The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in the prin-
cipal parameters such as costs and benefits was also analyzed. The results
(shown in Table 11) indicate that under more and less favorable assumptions
the return would range from 12% to 19%. If custom duties were included in
the calculation, the return would be 12%. If LMMC were to pay rentals six
months in advance, the return would be 19%. If SRC did not receive any
performance premium, the return would be 14%. If SRC's premium were
doubled, the return would be 19%.
February 21, 1978



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
Financial Assumptions
1.        Revenues and expenses are stated in a constant monetary unit.
2.        Capital costs do not include price and physical contingencies.
3.        Projected traffic on livestock block trains as in Annex 2, Table 1,
by number of animals and as in Annex 2, Table 2, by carloads.
4.        Projected livestock flows through markets as in Annex 7, Tables 3
and 4.
5.        Each animal is marketed once on average (or 50% of the animals go
through a market twice before slaughter or export).
6.        Basic operating, maintenance and fuel costs and wages as in Annex 2,
Appendix 1. Annual equipment utilization and load factors as in Table 1 of
this Annex.
7.        The performance premium payable to SRC has been calculated at 10%
of operating costs excluding depreciation. The premium is paid in monthly
arrears, to allow time for calculation.
8.        The rental payments from LMMC and SRC are calculated as follows:
(a) Fixed portion which covers the utilization of the capital equip-
ment. This portion is calculated as a 20 year full payout
lease, covering the full cost of the capital equipment utilized
by INMC including custom duties.  The montnly rental payments
are calculated to yield to SRC 8 1/2% per annum compounded
monthly.
(b)  Flexible portion which includes all operating costs as shown
in Tables 8 and 9 of this Annex. Rental payments from LMMC to
SRC are made in monthly advances.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Financial Assumptions with Project
1.        Revenues and expenses are stated in a constant monetary unit.
2.        Capital costs do not include price and physical contingencies.
3.        The capital equipment will be delivered at the beginning of fiscal
year 1981.  The cost of the capital equipment before contingencies is ISd 5,218.
SRC will make two progress payments each of approximately 25% of the total cost
of the capital equipment in fiscal years 1979 and 1980, balance at delivery.
4.        The foreign cost of the foregoing, approximately 74% of the total
cost, will be financed by a-LSd 372,000 loan, with a 20 year maturity, five
year grace and interest at 8% p.a. The balance of the cost representing taxes
and duties on railway equipment would be deferred.
5.        Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis.  Average lives
as in Table 4 of this Annex.
6.        Basic operating, maintenance and fuel costs and wages as in Annex 2,
Appendix 1. Annual equipment utilization and load factors as in Table 4 of
this Annex.
7.        The performance premium has been calculated at 10% of operating costs
excluding depreciation.
8.        Accounts payable and accrued liabilities turn over in 60 days.
9.        The rental payments from  fMMC to SRC are calculated as follows:
(a) Fixed portion which covers the utilization of the capital equipment.
This portion is calculated as a 20 year full payout lease, covering the
full cost of the capital equipment utilized by LMMC including custom duties.
The monthly rental payments are calculated to yield to SRC 8 1/2% per
annum compounded monthly; (b) flexible portion which includes all operating
costs except depreciation as shown in Tables 4, 8 and 9 of this Annex.
Rental payments from LMMC to SRC are made in monthly advances.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 3
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Financial Assumptions without Project
1.        Revenues and expenses are stated in a constant monetary unit
(1978).
2.        Capital costs include price contingencies.
3.        It is assumed that the proposed Project will be implemented
during the three-year period 1978 to 1980. Investments required to meet
the growing traffic demand beyond 1980 are included in the projections.
Their estimated costs are set out below:
bSd '000        US$ '000
1981              10,194          25,485
1982              21,761          54,403
1983              23,224          58,060
1984              22,285          55,713
1985              15,083          37,707
1986               9,903          24,758
1987               2,997           7,492
Total        1052447         263,618
4.        The foreign costs of the foregoing have been treated as 20 year
loans, including a grace period of 4 years, with interest at 8%. Included
in the costs are customs duties of ESd 16.75 million which have been deferred.
5.        Salaries and wages have been taken at 1977 levels and adjusted
for increases which will result from the regionalization and the increase in
retirement age from 55 to 60. In addition, labor costs related to rolling
stock maintenance have been increased for that part of the fleet not affected
by the workshop facilities provided by the proposed Project. To determine
the amount of the increase, actual maintenance costs were examined for the
period 1971-76, from which the future trend has been projected.
6.        Parts usage for locomotives and wagons has been calculated on a
projected kilometer basis using the 1976 actual cost per kilometer as a base
(adjusted to 1978 price levels). In addition, parts costs related to rolling
stock maintenance have been increased in the same manner as the labor costs.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 3
Page 2
7.         Fuel consumption has been calculated on a locomotive kilometer
basis.
8.        The portion of miscellaneous operating expense which applies
to rolling stock has been related to the forecast kilometer usage. The
balance has been assumed to remain constant.
9.         Accounts Receivable represent 45 days billings.
10.        Inventories for 1978 and 1979 include track material on hand
which should be in place by 1980. From 1981 on the inventory represents
1-1/2 years' requirements plus ESd 6.0 million in transit.
11.        Trade Accounts Payable are expected to rise in direct relation
to the increased need for parts and fuel.
12.        Commitments represent the difference between orders placed for
investment requirements and disbursements made.
November 10, 1977



uLMC
RAILWAY TRANSPORT OF LIVESTOCK                                                  ANNEX 9
Table 1.
Operating 1/ Assumptions to Financial Projections
Years
1           2           3           4           5            6                           7^ 2
Full Capacity - Wagon loaded Kms.                       -           -    2,245,000   2,694,000   3,592,000   4,489,000                     5,694,ooo
Load Factor - 7. of Full Capacity                       -           -        60%          7070         80%           85%                       9O/.
Actual Wagon Loaded Kms                                 -           -    1,347,000   1,886,000   2,873,000   3,816,000                     5,125,oOO
Freight Rate - pt. per wagon loaded km                  -           -        33.5         33.5          33.5         33.5                      33.5
Bonus - % of variable operating costs 2/                -           -        1o7.         107           107.         Io.                       107.
Equipment Rental - LSd.
-  Locomotives                     LSd.             -            -      315,000       315,000      340,000      340,000                   384,oOo
-  Double Deck Wagons              ESd.             -            -       138,000      138,000      138,000       138,000                  138,oOO
-  Single Deck Wagons              LSd. 3/          -            -        16,000       19,000       26,000        33,000                   46,000
Total Equipment Rental          LSd.                                 469,000      472,000       504,000      511,000                   568,000
-  Locomotive months                                 -           -           108          108           117          117                       132
-  Double Deck Wagon months                         -            -           828          828           828          828                       828
-  Single Deck Wagon months                         -            -           261          313          418           523                       744
SRC's gross rate of return on fixed
assets % p.a.  4/                                                             8.5%        8.57.         8.5%         8.5%                     8.5%
Average Useful Life of Equipment
-  Locomotives - years                                                        20           19            18           17                  16-o
-  Double Deck Wagons                                                         25           24            23           22                  21-5
-  Single Deck Wagons 5/                                                      10           1o            10           10                  10-10
1/  See Aooendix,l, Annex 3, for -'s'nmptions om other operating costs
2/  All operating cost except equipment renta                            t
3/  Includes vans
4/  Compounded monthly
5/  Assumes continuous reconditioning
July 7, 1977



ANNEX 9
SUDAN                                                                             Tbhie 2
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Live-tock and Meot MarketinR C.rP-rotio-
.rojection of Marketing Revenue
(%Sd'000)
e,                            Total Years
1           2             3          4             S            6            7-22                                    1-22
Revepue from Internal TradeI
Market fees:
Cattle 0 b1.00 per '-ad                           160          155          146         145          258          256            315
Sheep @ h.50 per head                            320           353          423         551          852          842          1.077
Toc.l Revenue fro  Internal T. de                     480          508          569         696        1,110        1,098          1,392                                      26,733
Revenue from Ixteroal Trde/
ExpR,rt F.es:
Cattle a 2.00 Ier head                             20          24            28          32           34           38             54
Sheep 9 61.00 per head                           185          240          294         330         _383          432             500
Total Revenue from  tatert al Trade                   205          264          322         362          417          470            554                                      10,914
Total R-e.ven  from Marketing                         695          772          891       1.058        1,527        1.568         1t946                                       37,647
LNMC Capital Costis4/
Transport Iefrastractur.                            -           -            171         171          171          171            171
Market Infrautructure                               -           -            152         152          152          152            152
Headq-arteru                                        38           87           87          87           87           87             87
Technical Asuintance                                38          87           87          87            87           87             87
Total Capital Costn                                   76          174          497         497          497          497            497                                      10.190
1206 Operating Costs
Transport Infr-.truct.re                                          1          130         179          204          222            222
Market Tofrantractore                               41           87          141         217          264          312            312
teadquart rs                                       176         334           359         331          335          339            339
T.al Operating Costs                                 217          422          630         727          803          873            873                                      17,640
Total Marketing CoSts                                 293          596        1.127       1,224        1.300        L.370          1.370                                      27,830
-.venue to he shared vith
Pro-i-cial Goveruments                               402          176         (236)       (166)         227          198            576                                       9,817
provincial G.verorsents' Share
Current                                             300          300          300         300          300          300            300
e-rcmentl                                           -           24            50          78          108          141-           176
300          324          350         378          408          441            476                                       9,817
Surplus (Deficit)                                     102         (148)        (586)       (544)        (181)        (243)           1013
Cuculative Surplus (Deficit)                          102          (46)        (632)    (1,176)       (1,357)      (1,600)
I/Nmbher of animls moved to Khrtouma s in Anne-  8, Table 3.
_/N-uoer of ania le exported a  in  -nee 8, Table 4.
3/Average. for che 16 years.
4/Provisions for capital replacemeot assum  full aortiuatian
of building. and in.tallatiane in 20 years, vehiclee and
equipment in 5 years and Technical Aesintanue ia 10 years.



SUDAN                                                                                   ANNEX 9
Table 3
LMMC
Railway Transport of Livestock
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement
(LSd.)
Years                                                                                              Total
1                2                3                4                 5              6                                            Years3-22
Revenue                                                  -             450,000          630,000           960,000     1,276,000            1,715,000                       30,756,000
Operating Costs
Locomotive Maintenance                 -                 -             161,000          212,000           302,000       404,000              478,000
Wagon Maintenance                       -                 -             22,000           29,000            42,000         56,000              61,000
Fuel & Ltubricants                      -                -              75,000           99,000           140,000        188,000             237,ooo
Wages                                   -                -               8,000           11,000            15,000         20,000              24,000
Track Maintenance                       -                -              59,000           78,000           111,000        149,000             184,000
Equipment Rental                       -                 -             469,000          472,000           504,000       511,000              568,ooo
Performance Premium                    v                 -              33,000           43,000            61,000        82,000               98,000
Total Operating Costs                                               827,000          944,000         1,175,000     1,410,000            1,650,000                       30,756,000
Net Profit (Loss)                                                  (377,000)        (314,000)         (215,000)      (134,000)             65,000
July 6, 1977



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
LU.MC
Railway Transport of Livestock
Pro-Forma Cash Flow
(bSd)
Total
__________________ -- -___ Years ________                                    Years
1       2       3           4          5           6           7-22          3-22
Receipts:
Customers freight rates                     -        -    450,000    630,000    960,000    1,276,000   1,715,000        30,756,000
Disbursements
Rental to SRC - Fixed portion                -       -    508,000    514,000    547,000        558,000      568,000     11,215,000
- Flexible portion            -       -    358,000    400,000    587,000        794,000      984,000      17,883,000
Performance Premium to SRC                  -        -     30,000      40,000     59,000      _77,000        98,000      1,774,000
Total Disbursements                                  896,000    954,000  1,193,000    1,429,000   1,650,000        30,872,000
Working Capital Surplus (Deficit)              -       -   (446,000)  (324,000)  (233,000)    (153,000)        65,000       ( 116,000)
Cumulative Working Capital                     -       -   (446,000)  (770,000)(1,003,000)  (1,156,000)          -          ( 1.16,000)
Source: Bank Staff                                                                                                                         ul
August 22, 1977



SUDAN                                           TaSx
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
Pro-forma Consolidated Stateaent of Profit and Loss
(LSd. '000)
--- Year - -                         -             -             Total Years
1              2              3              4              5              6              7-22            1 - 22
Markets Revenue  1/                     395            448            541            680          1,119           1,127           1,470            27,830
Transport Revenue                        -              _             450            630            960           1.276           1,715           30,756
Total Revenue                           395            448            991          1,310          2,079           2,403           3,185           58,586
Depreciation  2/                         76            174            497            497            497             497             497            10.190
Gross Profit                       319             274            494            813          1,582          t,906            2,688           48,396
Markets Operating Costs                 217            422            630            727             803            873             873            17,640
Railway Operating Costs                  -              -             827            944          1.175           1.410           1.650            30.75
217            422          1,457          1,671          1,978           2,283           2,523            48,396
operating Profit (Loss)            102            (148)          (963)          (858)          (396)           (377)            165              -
Cos,ulative Surplus (Deficit)      102             (46)       (1,009)          1,867         (2.263)        (2,640)             3/
I/   Net of Provincial Government's share.
2/  ILMC owns no depreciable capital assets related to railway
transport. Depreciation is charged only on markets related
. Capital Assets.
3/   Not applicable.                                                   .
September 9, 1977



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT                                        ANNEX 9
Table 6
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
Pro-forma Consolidated Cash Flow
(ESd. '000)
------------------------ Years --------------------------------------                     Total Years
1           2           3           4            5           6           7-22              1  -  22
Net Income (Loss)                                   102       (148)         (963)      (858)       (396)       (377)           165
Depreciation                                         76        174          497        497          497         497            497               10.190
Cash Flow from Operations                           178         26         (466)       (361)        lol         120            662               10,190
Timing Differences & Other Adjustments               -          -             16         37        (234)       (273)            _                  (454)
Cash Flow before Financing                          178         26         (450)       (324)       (133)       (153)           662                9,736
Net Working Capital Financing 1/                     -                      446         324         233         153             -                   -   2/
Cash Flow after Financing                           178         26            (4)        -          100          -             662                9,736
Cumulative Cash Surplus                             178        204          200         200         300         300          9,436   2/           9,736
1/   Working Capital borrowings are estimated at a level necessary to insure
minimum cash balances of LSd.  200,000 in years 3 and 4 and LSd. 300,000
in years 5 and thereafter. Those minimum cash balances are estimated to be
adequate at the varying levels of projected Revenue.
2/   Working Capital borrowings to be repaid in years 7, 8 and 9
September 9, 1977



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan R8ilways CorPoration
Pro-Torum Increental Statement of Profit *nd Lo..
(bSd)
Year Ended - june 30
1979      !980      1981        1982       1983        1984       1985       1986        1987       1988        1989       1990        1i91       1992        1993       1994        1995       1996        1997      .998       1999      20O0
Rentl Income               -         -     827,000    944,000   1,175,000  1,410,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1,650,000  1.650,000  1,650,000  1.650,000  1,650,000 1,650,000 1,650,000
Depreciation   pene-                       247,000    249,000                 2584000 2  25  000    267.000    267,000    267.000    267,000    267.000    267,000    267.000    267.000              00    267,000    267.000    267.000    267 000   267,000   267,000
Groan Profit                               580,000    695,000      921,000  1.152,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383.000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383,000  1,383.000  1,383.000 1,383,000 1,383,000
Locomoti-a Miote-
naflce                    -           _    161,000    212,000      302,000    404.000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478,000    478.000    478.000    478,000    478,000   478,000   478,000
O8.80 Maintenn-ce          -                 22,000      29.000      42,000     52,000      61,000     61,000      61,000     61,000      61,000     61.000      61,000     61,000     61,000      61,000      61,000     61,000      61,000     61,000    61,000    61.000
frauk Maintenance          -           -     59,000      78,000     111,000    149,000    184,000           184.000     184.000    184,000    184,000    184,000           184,000 144,000    184,000 144,000 1b4,000    184,000    184,000   184,000   184,000
F.el *nd Lubrionitn        -           _     75,000      99,000     140,000    188.000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000    237,000   237,000   237,000
,la8ea                                 -      8,000      11,000      15,000     20,000      24.000     240l0C    24.000  C ,000           24.000     24.000      24.000     24,000     24.000       4          24.000     24.000      24 000     24,000    24,000    24,000
rotal  Aainteoaao  and
OperatiLg Coat.                            325,000    429,000      610,000    813.000    984,000    984,000    9840000    984.000   984,000                   00    984,000 94000    9 000    984,000    984000    984,000    984,000    984,000   984,000   984,000
Sperating Profit                            255.000    266,000      311,000    339,000    399.000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000    399,000   399,000   399,000
Entareat Eapen8eg                           419,000    303,000      303,000    303,000    303,000    303.000    283,000    263,000    243,000    223.000    203,000    183.000    163,000    143,000    123,000    103,000            83,000     63,000    43,000    23,000
Oat Profit (Lo..)                          f64,000)    37000          .000      36,GOO      96000    96,000    1176000    136,000       156_000    216,000    26                                   56000      276 000    296,000      _         336,000   356,G0 376.000
l.talnnd fernieg.                           (164,000) (201,000)   (193,000)  (157,000)   161,000)    35,000    151,000    287,000    443,000    619,000    815,000  1,031,000  1,267,000  1,523,000  1,799,000  2,099,000  2,411,000  2,747,000 3,103,000 3,479,000
JBSO,787,000 lon, 20 year  atrity, 5 year grce,;
81 per annum  interest  14 equal annual inntalment.
of hSd259,000 e-oh, balloon payaent of 1Sd287,000.
Teo year draw down priod.
ource  Rank ataff
anget 22, 1977



ANNEX 9
SUDA:                                                 YTable 8
LIVESTOCK MARXETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Pro-Forma Balance Sheet with Project
(hSd'000)
Year Ended - June 30
1979       lSSG        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986          2000
Current Assets
Cash                              -                       255         492         802       3,645       15,258      33,371       37,053
Other Current Assets           17.926      18,299      19,520      20,050      20.720      21,000       21,400      22,000       22.000
17,926     18,299      19,775      20,542      21,522      24,645        36,658     54,371        57,053
Fixed Assets - At Cost
Leased to LMMC                  1,'1l       2,622       5,150       5,154       5,163       5,172        5,190       5,190        5,24'
Accumulated Depreciation          -           -           247         496         750       1,008        1,275       1,542        5,280
Net Leatsed Assets                -         2,'22       4,903       4,658       4,413       4,164        3,915       3,648            65
ether Fixed Assets - Net    138,136    144,852    164.250    182,640    200.280    201,900             203,100    203.900       203,900
139,447    147,474    169,153    187,298    204,693    Z06,064           207,015    207,548       203,965
Total Assets                    157 373    165773                       840262919                                                 263.018
Curreut Liabilities              47,953      42,662      45,004      43,323      40,130      24,338       19,656      19,856       19,798
Deferred Custom Duties           22,465      23,749      28,121      31,821      35,541      37,641       39,741      41,841       41,841
Long Term Debt
Project Related                   97C       1,940       3,787       3,787       3,787       3,787        3,537       3,287         -
Other                          33-555      41,114      50.060      59,930      69,790      77,700       80,200      80,900       80,900
34,525     43,054      53,847      63,717      73,577      81,487        83,737      84,187      80,900
Equity
Project Related -
Retained Earnings               -           -          (164)       (201)       (193)       (157)         (61)         35        3,479
Other                          52,430      56.308      62.120      69,170      77.160      87.400      100,600    117.000       117.000
52,430     56,308      61,956      68,969       76,967     87,243       100,539    117,035       120,479
Total Liabilities and Equity  157373    165773    188.928    207,840                226.215    230,709    43673    262,'319       263. 018
Source: Bank staff
August 22, 1977



SUODA
LIVESTOCK MARKETIN  PROJECT
Sudan Rilway. Curoona,lou
Pro-Fors Incremntal Cash Flow with froJect
(i Sd)
Year ended - June 30
1979      1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985       1986        1987        1988        1989      1990        1991        1992        1993       1994        1995        1996        1997       1998        1999      2000
SOurce of Funds
Nat I-cctne (Iota)        -           -     (164,000)  (37,000)        8,000     36,000      96,000      96,000      116,000    136,000   156,000    176,000    196,000   216,000         236,000      256,000   276,000    296,000    316,000   336,000   356,000    376,000
4eprcLntion               -           -      247_000   249.000       254,000    258.000    267.0    2                267,000    2          267,000    267.000    267,000   267.000        267.000      267.000   267,000 2767002600                 2677000   267,000    267.003
83,000   212,000      262,000    294,000    363,000    363,000        383,000    403,000   423,000    443,000    463,000   483.000         503,000      523,000   543.000    563,000    583,000   603,000   623,000    643,000
See of Funde
Equip-ent Pu-chauc    1311,000 1311,000  2,506,000         -                   -               -          -             -                -          -           -                -            -           -           -          -          -                -
NOn-CWe  I-ktug            -          -                                                                   - 
Capitl                   -          -     (12000   (25.000)   (128,000)  (129,000    1300    (80,000)    (80,000)   (90.000)  (80,000)   (80,000)   (90,000)  (80,000)    (80,000)                   (90.000)  (80,000)   (80,000)    (00.000)  (80,000)  (80,000)   264,005
2,334,000   (25,000)    (128,000)  (129,000)  (130,000)  (80,000)    (80,000)   (80,000)  (80,000)   (80,000)   (80,000)  (00,000)    (80,100)             (80,000)  (90.000)   (80,000)    (00,000)  (00,800)  (80,000)   264,000
Cash Flow before.
Fia- cing            (1311,000)(1311.000)(2,251,000)  237,000       390,000      423,000    493,000   443,000       463,000    483,000   503,000    523,000    543,000   563,000          583,000      603,000   623,000    643,000    663,000   683,000   703,000    379.000
Fina.ci.x -
- 8lOoc. (USe)
Long tner  Debt        970,000   970,000  1,847,000        -                         -          -      (250,000)   (250,000)  (250,000) (250,000)  (250,000)  (250,000) (250,000)   (250,000)   (250,000) (25Q,000)  (250,000)  (25.,000) (250,000) (250,000) (287,000)
Dufrrend Cust-n Duti_e 341.000  ,341000    659,000
1,311,000  1311,000  2,506,000  _              _                                                                                                                                                  _
Cath Surplo  (Deficit)    -           -      P55,505   237,00.)      310,00D    343,000    413,000    113,000    133,000         153,:)00   173,503    193,)0O        13,000   233,735    L33,DO0      273,0X)  293,000    313,030    355,O5   353,5X00'   373,0;)o    L27,00
Surp.nt (Defictt)                            255,000   49, 93        352.003  1,145,005  1.558,55)  1,671,355  1,3104,         _570,5   2      5      ,303,)y 2.536,030 0,769,5 0  3.725,55)   3,295, 3,590,000  3,950,500  4,234,jss5  4,597,550 4 ,96_,55                 72 '
V:e
Source: Sank staff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0j
As.z.t 22, 1977



zu'r: E'. 9
Sabie 10
UIV!STOCY L;AR=NG PR.CJ!C
Sudan Railwavs Coroaraicon
Schedule ot Selected Financial ladicarors
1979       1980        198L        1982        1983          1986         1993          2000
'Aorktzs   tatoaL/
Iacremental - Projec& ZeLaCed.9/       -   *        -         0.39        0.45        0.52          0.60     *  0.60           0.60
Clobal with ?roject                   0.78         0.76       0.73        0.70        0.68          0.50         0.60          n.6c
Global w.ithout Project               0.79         0.76       0.73        0.70        0.68          0.60         0.60          0.60
Operating Racii/
Incremental - Project Related-9        -             -        0.69        0.72        0.74          0.76         0.76          0.76
Global wtth Project                   0.89         0.87       0.84        0.81        0.79          0.72         0.72           1.72
Global  i.thouc Project               0.89         0.37       0.84        0.81        0.79          0.72         0.72          0.72
Debt Service Coverag 3
racremental - Project Ftalatetd        -            -         1.20        1.70        1.86          1.20         1.61          2.44
Global with Project                   2.10         2.55       2.41        2.27        2.31          2.71         2.72           2.75
Global without Project                 2.10         2.55      2.50        2.45        Z.48          2.79         2.79           2.79
Times Tntersrt FEsruwLY          4
Tadreancal - Project Relactd:.        -             -        0 61        0.88        1.03          1.32         2.45         17.35
Global wt-ih Project                   1.98        2.16       1.96        2.06        2.07          3.44         3.52           3.60
Global withoue Project                 1.98         2.16      2.08        2.13        2.12          3.55         3.;5 555
Dabt Zqu.ity RaeA/
vith Projece                         41/60        43/57     46/54       49/31        43/52        42/58         41/59         40/60
vithout Project                     39/61        42/58      45/55       46/54        47/57        41/59         41/59         41/59
ecturn on Net Fixed As4ecs(%)
wirh Projec:                         4.2          4.1        6.0         6.5          6.9         10.5         10.5          10.6
without Pro,act                      4.Z          4.7        5.9         6.5          6.9         10.5         10.5          10.6
Current tato-
with Project                         0.37         0.43       0.44        0.47         0.53         2.78         2.86           2.98
without Project                      0.37         0.43       0.44        0.47         0.52         2.80         2.80          2.SO
Quick RatIoJ..
with Project                          -            -            -        0.01         0.01         1.68         1.78          1.87
without Project '                                  -           -          -            -           1.65         1.65           1.65
1/ working Ratio - Tocal opecating expenses, excludAIg depreciation and
intereast. dividd by total operating revenue.
Z/ Operacing latto - Total operatiag expenses , including dSpreciation but
excluding intcerest, divided by total operating revenue.
3/ Oebt Service Coverage - Noet incom before depreciation and interest
divided by the total of intarese plus principal rapaymenc.
4/ Tizes Iaterest Earned - t'ec incree before interest divided by the
interest charges.
5/ Debt/Equity Racio - The relative percentages of Long-tern debt and
equity invented in the entarprise.
6/ Annual Recurn oan  et Iried Aseets in Use - Xet income before incerest
as a percentage of tbe average net fixed assets in use for the year.
7/ Currenr Racio - Current assets divided by current labilitas.
8/ Quick 3.tio - Cash divtded by curre.nt labilities.
9/ Iaczemecal Project Rel.atd - These raton refer co Project relAced
operations only.  tncremencal 3azance Sheets vartoa would not be
meaningful.
Source: 3ank staff
August 22, 1977



ENEX  9
Taole ' i
SCDA;N
LMSOCC< XA.RKZTI.NG 71.03jCT
Sudan Railways Co7ooractoa
FtIancial ItnCnal, Raca of  kecurn
(ES 000' )
tacremencal.L Ovratin  Cash -lav                            Total
Capica.L      gec Incom       Deprecia-                             2/    UOrkg         Incre:macal        'fet
fear Endad Jun-  30       Coses   /:on Z/                                            I earec- Capital               OU'rattag      Cash FLou
Cash Flov
1979                          970                                                                                                     (910)
1980                          970             -               -                            -              -               -            (970)
L981                        1,847           (164)            241                          419           172              668        (1,179)
1982                                         (37)            249                          303             25             s40            540
19S3                                            8            254                          303             48             613            613
1984                                          36             258                          303             49             646            646
1985                                          96             267                          303             50             716            716
1986                                          96             Z67                          303             -              666            666
1987                                         S1.6            267                          283             -              666            666
1988                                         L36             Z67                          Z63             -              666            666
1989                                         156             267                          243             -              666            666
1990                                         176             267                          223             -              666            666
1991                                         196             267                          203             -              666            666
L992                                         ZL6             Z67                          183             -              666            666
L993                                         Z36             267                          163                            666            666
1994                                         256             267                          143             -              666            666
1995                                         276             267                          123             -              666            666
1996                                         296             267                          103             -              666            566
L997                                         316             267                           83             -              666            666
L998                                         336             267                           63             -              666            666
2999                                         356             267                           43             -              666            666
z2a0                                         376             267                           23           (344)            322            322
3,787         3.479           5.274                        4,076             -          12,829           9,042
Financial Incernal Race of Recur,: 172
Senszcivit7 Analysis:
1. CapLtal Costs Include O3utis                    122
2. LM2C pays rental La 6 montih advances           191
3. SRC does aot receive performnce prezium  14Z
4. SRC's performance premum is doub.le4            191
Zxc=Lud4ng cuscom ducla
Z1 From Table 7
_f From table 9
Augc Z2, 1.977



S(TIAN
LIVESTOCK YARIKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Pro-forma Statement of Profit and Loss ithout Project
LS '000                                   LS millions                                  LS Millions
Year Ended June 30                    1977       1978        1979       1980                1981       1982        1983                1984       1985        1986
Revenue:
Freight                          31,442     34,764      38,585     42,251               45.42      48.55      51.62                54.2         56.9       59.8
Passengers                        7,695      8,311      8,976       9,693               10.47      11.31     '12.21                13.2         14.2       154A
Miscellaneous                       200        200         200        200                 .20        .20         .20                  .2          .2         .2
Total Revenue             39,337     43,275     47,761      52.144               56.09      60.06      64.03                67.6         71.3       75.4
txnces:
Salaries and Wages               19,800     21,983      23,598     25,359               25.79      25.97       26.35                26.3        26.3       26.5
Stores                            3,963      4,509      4,740       5,068                5.29       5.38        5.57                 5.5         5.6        5.6
Fuel                              5,694      6,627       7,147      7,715                8.22       8.73        9.54                10.0         10.5      U.1
Hiscellaneoue                     1,520      1 614       1 655      1.712                1.75       1.77        1.80                 1.8          1.8       1.8
30,977                            39,733437,140       41.05       41.85    4               4. 4
Depreciation                      3,588      4,606       5,194      5,628                5.85       6.86        7.60                 8.3          8.7       9.1
Total Expenses            34,565     39,339     42,334      45,482               46.90      48.71       50.86                51.9         52.9      54.1
Net Operating Revenue                4,772      3,936       5,427      6,662                9.19       11.35      13.17                15.7         18.4      21.3
Non-Operatirtg Revenue               1,575      1,575       1,575      1,575                1.58        1.58       1.58                 1.6          1.6        1.6
Interest Chergee                     3,667      3,529       3,528      3,808                4.41        5.33       6.21                 6.5          6.3       6.0
Net Ince                   2,680      1,982       3,474      4,429                6.36       7.60        8.54                10.8         13.7      16.9
Source: Bank Staff
May 1977
I1~



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Pro-forma Balance Sheet without Project
LS '000                                         U Millilone                                       LS Millions
Tear Ended June 30                    lo7l        1978         1979         1980                 1981        1982         1983                     19i.4        1985          1986
Asegts
Current Assets:
urank                                 -          --                                                         -             -                       2.5         13.7         31.7
ftecelvables                        7,746     4,276         4,746        5,197                5.59        5.97          6.35                      6.7          7.0           7.4
InventorIes                       22 000    20,261         13 180       13 102               13.93       14.08         14.37                     14.3         14.4         14.6
jt'=      24,537         I W9        ,2                    _9.52       20.05        20.71                     23.5           T           317
,ixed Assett  - At Cost             134,780   159,913       178,846    189,159                219.71       244.96       270.20                    280.1        290.0         299.9
Accumulated Depreciation           34 183    38,789        43,983      49,611                55.46       62.32        69.92                      78.2         86.9          96.0
Not in Use                     TIt   77   121,124       134,863    139,548                164.25        2.64         200.28                   201.9        20.          203.9
Work In Progrees                    5.520       -           3.273    _5  304                   -           -             -                                   2      __
106.1-17        12144 !852                                 64425      18264   25   218                          _203
Total Aseste                        135,863   145,661       156,062    163,151                183.77       202.69       221.00                    225.4         238.2.       257.6
Ltabilities and Eqult,
Current Ltabilitiee:
Trade Payable.                     8,000     6,938         7,273        7,729                8.05        8.22          8.54                      8.6           8.7          8.8
Commitments                           -     14,472         20,156      16,110               19.48        18.54        20.56                      8.2           3.0          3.0
Blank Overdraft                  29,713    21,217         15,352      14,390                11.92       10.94          5.37                       -             -            -
Long-term Debt - Current          5,049      3,388         2,274       1,611                  2.62        2.73         2.79                      4.7           4.9          5.0
Provtdent hind                    3 050      2 974         2 898       2 822                 2.74         2.67         2.59                      2.5           2.4          2.4
Deferred Custeas                     15,004    19,505         22,124      23,067                26.78       30.49        34.20                      36.3         38.4         40.5
Lon&-Term Debt:
lSED - Existing                   13,982   *13,739        12,470      11,674                10.85        10.00         9.12                      8.2           7.3          6.3
Other - Existtng                   15,689    13,044        11,539       10,724                10.01        9.26         8.55                       7.8          7.1          6.6
IRED - Propoed                        -          76         1,261       6,352                 6.51         7.45         7.14                      6.8           6.4          6.1
Other - Proposed                      -       2,721         8,285      12,364                 17.10       16.25        15.36                      14.5         13.5         12.5
Future Requiremnte                    -         .             .           -                   5.59        16.97        29.62                     40,4          45,9         49.4
2671   29,0              4T3 3 , 1                        50.06       59.93 6  9     7W797_6_F._79                                        __7
Equity:
Capital                           11,127    12,347        13,767      13,767                13.77        13.77        13.77                      13.7         13.7         13.7
Capital Reserve                  34,922    39,971         43,359      45,633                47.74       49.86         52.59                     55.4          60.1         65.0
Retained Earning                (   673)  (4,211)         (4.696)    (3,092)                 1.11         5.54        10.80                      18.3         26.8         38.3
45,376    48.087        52.430      56,308                62.12        69.174       77.16                      87.4        100.6        111.0
Total Liabilities and gquity        135,863   145,661       156,062    163,151                 183.77      202.69       221.00                     225.4        23e.2         257.6
Sources Sank Staff
May 1977



SUDAIM
LIVESTOCK b'ARKETING PR'UECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Pro-foraa Cash Flow without ProJect
hS'OO0                           LS Millionh                       LS Millions
Year Ended June 30                     1978      1979      1980           1981      1982      1983           1984      1985      1986
Source of Funds:
1. From Operations:
Net Operating Revenue        3,936    5,427    6,662             9.19  ' 11.35    13.17              15.7      18.4      21.3
Depreciation                 4,606    5,194    5,628             5.85      6.86      7.60             8.3       8.7       9.1
Non-Operating Revenue        1.575    1,575    1.575             1.58      1.58      1.58             1.6       1.6       1.6
10,117   12,196   13,865            16.62    19.79    22.35             25.6      28.7      32.0
2.  Increase in Capital             1,220    1,420       -               -         -         -
3.  Long Term Debt                  2,797    6,749    9,170             5.98      1.22       -               -         -         -
4.  Deferred Customs                4,501    2,619        943           3.71      3.71      3.71            2.1       2.1        2.1
5.  Future Requirements               -         -        -              5.59    11.38    12.65             12.6       7.4        5.7
6.  Decrease in Non-Cash           16,82   11,440         -             3.40       -        1.65             -          -        _
Working Capital
Total Sources of Funds    35,517   34.424   23,978               35.30    36.10    40.36             40.3      38.2      39.8
Use of Funds:
1.  CApital Assets                 19,613   22,206   12,344            25.25    25.25    25.24               9.9       9.9       9.9
2.  Debt Service - Principal        3,388    2,274    1,611             2.62      2.73      2.79             4.7       4.9       5.0
- Interest       3,529    3,528    3,808              4.41      5.33      6.21            6.5       6.3       6.0
3.  Interest on Capital               491       551       551           0.55      0.55      0.55             0.5       0.5       0.5
4.  Increase in Non-Cash              -         -       4.702            -        1.26       -              10.8       5.4       0.4
Working Capital
Total Use of Funds          279021   28,559   23,016             32.83    35.12    34.79             32.4      27.0      21.8
Annual Cash Surplus                   8,496    5,865        962            2.47      0.98      5.57            :7.9     11.2      18.0
Opening Cash Balance                (29,713) (21.217) (15.352)           (14.39)  (11.92)  (10.94)            (S.4)      2.5      13.7
Closing Cash Balance                (21,217) (15,352) (14,390)           (11.92)  (10.4)        .37            2.5      13.7      31.7
Source:   Bank Staff
May 1977
40-



ANNEX 9
Table 15
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Comparative Balance Sheets
(LSd. '000)
Year Ended June 30                                               1975            1976 1/
Assets
Current Assets:
Receivables                                                  12,985           17,218
Inventories                                                  20,296           22,514
-33.281-3,2
Fixed Assets - At Cest                                         84,488           86,470
Accumulated Depreciation                                     27,660           30,595
Net in Use                                                 56,828           55,875
Work in Progress                                              5,609           27,560
62 437          83,435
Total Assets                                                   95,718          123,167
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Trade Payables                                               13,658          17,385
Provident Fund                                                2,496            2,470
Bank Overdraft                                               16,956           19,026
Long-Term Debt - Current                                      2,967            3,953
-63,077          42,834
Deferred Customs                                                 -              11,004
Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                                                         11,121          10,547
Other                                                         4,550           15,403
15,671          25,950
Equity
Capital                                                      11,377          11,365
Capital Reserve                                              28,027           30,969
Retained Earnings                                             4,566            1,045
43,970          43,379
Total Liabilities and Equity                                   95,718          123,167
1/  Unaudited.
Source: Sudan Railways Corporation
September 12, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 16
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Statement of Profit and Loss
Railway Operations
(iSd. 1000)
Year Ended June 30                                                   1976  1/
Revenue:
Freight:
Cotton and Cotton Seed                                         3,381
Grain and Food Stuffs                                          2,972
Other Local Produce                                            1,420
Petroleum                                                      3,992
Imported Food Stuffs                                           6,217
Other Imports                                                  8,192
Livestock                                                        180
Total Freight                                          26,354
Passengers                                                     5,856
Miscellaneous                                                    519
Total Revenue                                         32,729
Expenses
Salaries and Wages                                            17,750
Stores                                                         4,562
Fuel                                                           4,087
Miscellaneous                                                    901
27,300
Depreciation                                                   2,976
Total Expenses                                         30,276
Net Operating Revenue                                               2,453
Non-Operating Revenue                                                 890
Interest Charges                                                    39062
Net Income                                                281
1/ Unaudited
Source: Sudan Railways Corporation and Bank Staff
September 12, 1977



ANNEX 10
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(us$ o000)
___________________------ Year ---------------------^--
1               2           3           4           5         6      7-22       1 to 22 1/
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Overseas Development
Ministry (UK) 2/                     600             600          600         600         600     100       -          3,100
IDA                                 2,400          4,000         6,100      4,000       3,500   5,000        -         25,000
Incremental Govern-
ment Revenue 3/                    1,000          2,500         2,600         800         700     600       200       11,400
Total Sources                  4,000          7,100        9,300       5,400       4,800   5,700        200       39,500
USES OF FUNDS
Project Execution 4/                5,500         14,600       15,700       2,000       1,000      400       _         39,200
Tax Deferral SRC                       900            900       1,600          -           -       -         -          3,400
IDA 5/ -  Amortization                -               -            -           -          -        -         60C        7,500
- Service charge and
commitment fee              200            200          200         200         200      200       200        3,900
Total Uses                     6,600         15,700       17,500       2,200       1,200      600       800       54,000
Funds Surplus (Deficit)
-  Treasury                 (2,600)        (8,600)      (8,200)      3,200       3,600   5,100       (600)    (14,500)
-  LMMC 7/                     400            100          -           -           300      -       1,500       24,300
-  SRC  8/                     -              -            600         600         800      900       600       12,500
Consolidated Funds Surplus
(Deficit)        (2,200)        (8,500)      (7,600)      3,800       4,700   6,000    1,500         22,300
Cumulative Funds Surplus (Deficit)
-  Treasury                 (2,600)       (11,200)     (19,400)   (16,200)   (12,600) (7,500)   N.A.6/    (14,500)
-  Consolidated             (2,200)       (10,700)    (18,300)   (14,50n)       (9,80n) (3,800)   N.A.,6/      22,300
1/  Cumulative for entire period.  Annual figures may not add due to rounding.
2/ Grant basis.
3/ Taxes and duties generated by Project activities.
4/ Includes contingencies and LMMC working capital. Excludes operating
costs which will be offset by operating revenues of LX{C and SRC.
5/ Standard IDA Terms.
6/ Not applicable
71  From Annex 9, Table 6.  Converted into US$ and rounded.
8/  From Annex 9, Table 9.  Converted into US$ and rounded.
February 15, 1978



ANNEX 11
Page 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Project Benefits and Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.        Throughout its history, the Sudan has been recognized as possessing
a surplus of livestock; exports of cattle, sheep and camels have therefore
played a significant role in the country's economy. With the fast growth of
demand, especially in the Middle Eastern markets, it has become increasingly
obvious that adequate exploitation of this potentially rich source of foreign
exchange income is constrained by:
(a) insufficient attention by Government to animal production
development;
(b) the absence of reliable transport facilities and adequately
equipped stockroutes;
(c) inadequate physical marketing facilities inhibiting the
speed of trading and discouraging market utilization;
(d) insufficient competition in the market place through lack
of organization and supervision permitting the access of
non-licensed traders and an excessive number of middlemen;
(e) the absence of a coherent national policy and reliance
on ad hoc regulatory intervention by both provincial and
federal authorities which prevents producers, traders and
exporters from medium- and long-term planning;
(f) lack of confidence on the part of would-be investors in
the industry leading to a shortage of finance and less
animals being bought than are being offered in the rural
markets; and
(g) barriers to new entry and consequent inadequate competi-
tion, as trading is concentrated in the hands of a few
traders affluent enough to provide the considerable
amounts of working capital required to finance the trek-
king of animals.
2.        The Project would represent an initial step in the long-term devel-
opment of the Sudan's livestock industry. As such it would help to relieve
some of the major constraints which have hampered the expansion of national



ANNEX 11
Page 2
marketed production. It would be particularly important in facilitating the
expansion of the livestock and meat exports which are the driving force in
the livestock industry; it is the external demand for livestock and meat
which - relayed through the marketing system in the form of higher producer
prices - would provide the needed incentive for increased production and
offtake.
Quantifiable Benefits
3.        The Project would have the following quantifiable benefits:
(a) Weight Loss Saving. Railway transport of cattle and sheep
from the Western provinces to Khartoum on the LfMC block
trains is estimated to have turn-around times ranging from
three days (El Obeid to Khartoum) to seven days (Nyala to
Khartoum). Given those turn-around times and adequate
watering and feeding facilities provided by the Project,
the animals are not expected to suffer from any appreciable
loss of condition as a result of the train journey in
efficiently run block trains. The trekking time on the
main stockroutes from the Western Provinces to Khartoum
is estimated to range from about 25 days to 60 days for
cattle, and about 30 days to 75 days for sheep, depending
on the origin of the trek.  Trekking conditions are more
favorable during the rainy season from September through
November, but they become increasingly more severe from
February through July due to the scarcity of grazing and
water. For about three months at the heart of the dry
season, trekking is virtually impossible. During the
remaining nine months trekking is feasible but it
results in a loss of condition of the animals to a
varying degree, depending on the season. The economic
loss caused by the long treks can be measured in terms
of carcass weight equivalent loss resulting from the
animals' weight loss and increased mortality. Table I
shows the monthly estimated value per thousand head of
the weight losses resulting from trekking cattle. Table 2
shows the same estimate for sheep. Therefore during
the three quarters of the year in which trekking from
the West to Khartoum is feasible, the economic benefit
of an effective livestock system can be equated to the
value of the weight loss that the animals railed would
suffer if they were trekked.
(b) Maintenance Cost Saving. During the driest months, which
approximately coincide with the second calendar quarter of
the year, livestock trekking is not a realistic alternative



ANNEX 11
Page 3
to railing. In order to supply livestock from the western
Provinces to the Khartoum market during the dry season, in the
absence of an efficient railway system of livestock transport,
animals have to be trekked to Khartoum before Lhe dry season,
kept in holding grounds and released to the market gradually
over the dry months, when the flow from the West comes to a
virtual halt. The average daily incremental economic cost of
maintaining livestock in the Khartoum area is 7 pt. per head
for sheep and 20 pt. per head for cattle. An average holding
period of approximately 60 days is necessary to ensure a con-
tinuing supply throughout the dry season. This benefit would
apply to all livestock railed during the second calendar
quarter (Annex 2, Tables l and 3). The Project economic
benefit resulting from railing livestock to Khartoum from the
west during the dry season therefore is equal to the saving of
the livestock maintenance cost differential between the pro-
ducing areas and the consuming areas.
(c) An Increase in the Number of Animals Transported From Khartoum
to Port Sudan for Export to the Middle East. Substantially all
animals for live export leave Port Sudan by sea. Trekking export
grade animals from Khartoum to Port Sudan is impossible, and the
railroad offers the only feasible means of moving the animals
between these two points. The,Project would provide the LMIC
with a livestock block train capable of railing from Khartoum to
Port Sudan up to 540,000 sheep and 12,000 cattle a year. The
benefit to be derived from the change of location of these
animals is measured by the price differentials for each type of
livestock. Due to strong export demand the f.o.b. price Port
Sudan for live sheep is considerably higher than the Khartoum
price; observed price premiums range up to 50% and more in the
export market vis-a-vis the domestic market for the top grade
Hamadi sheep. The price differential between Khartoum and Port
Sudan was conservatively estimated at ISd 9 per head for sheep
and ESd 35 per head for cattle (after converting the foreign
exchange at the shadow rate of LSd 1 - US$2). Table 3 shows
estimated financial and economic prices for livestock.
Economic Analysis
4         Railway Transport of Livestock.  Estimates of Project transport of
livestock by rail were based on the following assumptions:
(a) Projected traffic on the LMMC livestock block trains as
in Annex 2, Tables I and 2.
(b) Projected seasonal utilization of livestock traffic on
the LI4C block trains for the Project years 3 through 6
as in Annex 2, Table 3.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(c) The maximum capacity of a double-deck sheep wagon is 200
sheep; the maximum capacity of a cattle wagon is 25 head.
5.        Economic Rate of Return.  The economic analysis is based on the
following assumptions:
(a) Project life is 22 years.
(b) All Project costs excluding taxes were included in the rate
of return calculation. Price contingencies were excluded
from the analysis.
(c) Foreign exchange costs were valued at ESd 1 = US$2.00 (as
opposed to the prevailing exchange rate of ESd 1 = US$ 2.50)
to reflect the economic value of foreign exchange. Incre-
mental livestock exports were valued at the same rate.
(d) Labor was valued at market prices.
Based on these assumptions, the rate of return was estimated to be 15% (Table
1). The sensitivity of the rate of return was tested under several assump-
tions; the results of these tests are shown below:
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return %
1.  Basic Run                                                          15
2.  Foreign exchange valued at prevailing exchange rate                12
3.  With an export ban                                                  0
4.  Load factor on block trains reduced by 10%                         12
5.  Increase by 100% (doubling) of physical contingency                13
(equal to a cost overrun of 10%)
6.  Load factor on block trains increased by 5%                        16
7.  Increase by 200% of the cost of fuel and lubricants                12
8.  Load each cattle wagon with 30 head instead of 25                  16



ANNEX 1I
Page 5
Unquantifiable Benefits
6.        The Project would have the following unquantifiable benefits:
(a)  The improved primary and secondary markets, the institu-
tion of more efficient market procedures, and the super-
vision and licensing of traders and middlemen would:
(i)  increase the number of transactions which could
be carried out on a single market day;
(ii) encourage the entry of a greater number of inde-
pendent traders to the markets, thus increasing
competition;
(iii)  allow the producers to receive a higher price
for their animals, thus encouraging larger num-
bers of producers to come to the markets; and
(iv) reduce marketing bottlenecks, thus allowing
the export demand pull on prices to be readily
translated into higher prices for producers.
(b) The provision of scheduled livestock transport services
would:
(i)  facilitate the stratification of the industry
by enabling livestock fattening enterprises to
acquire regular, year-round supplies of feeder
stock from-the traditional breeding areas in
the west, thus increasing the production of
finished stock for local consumption and export;
(ii) by ensuring the availability of year-round
transport channels, provide market outlets for
stock during the dry season when stock cannot
otherwise be moved out of the producing areas,
thus
(1)  providing regular supplies of meat at
stable prices for the Khartoum market;
and
(2)  allowing exporters to guarantee regular
supplies of stock to foreign markets;
(iii)  improve the efficiency of animal disease con-
trol through the introduction of veterinary
procedures at an early stage in the marketing
process, and by introducing early quarantining
of animals, reduce the costs of holding animals
prior to export;



ANNEX 11
Page 6
(iv) facilitate the marketing of immature cattle
(12-18 months) and sheep (6-12 months) which
cannot not withstand the rigors of the long trek
(these immatures would be in particular demand by
the fattening enterprises). The increased offtake
of immatures would in time result in a change
in present herd compositions in favor of an
increased percentage of breeding females, thus
rendering the herds more productive in the long
term, it would also relieve some of the pressure on
the grazing resources.
(c) The establishment of the LMMC would:
(i) provide for the establishment of long-term
national marketing policies which would give
the private sector the confidence and the
flexibility necessary to undertake substan-
tial investment in the livestock industry;
and
(ii) allow the Sudan to develop internal and ex-
port marketing policies based on intensive
market studies rather than developed as a
reaction to short-term market trends.
November 10, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 1
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(h Sd)
Project Years
1           2           3           4           5          6           7-22
Project Benefits
Weight Loss Saving  Sheep                   -           -         267,000    373,000    568,000    755,000    942,000
Cattle                -            -        167,000    243,000    365,000    486,000    554,000
Maintenance Cost Saving  Sheep              -           -         142,000    198,000    301,000    401,000    531,000
Cattle           -           -          20,000      29,000      43,000      58,000    i29,000
Khartoum Port Sudan  Sheep                  -           -         576,000    801,000  1,224,000  1,620,000  2,160,000
Cattle               -           -         175,000    210,000    245,000    315,000    420,000
Total Benefits                           -           -      1,347,000  1,854,000  2,246,000  3,635,000  4,736,000
Less:
Investment Costs
Livestock Transport                     1,311,000  1,311,000  2,952,000    324,000    233,000    153,000            -
Transport Infrastructure I/                 -       1,871,000    405,000        -           -           -           -
Market Infrastructure 2/                    -         797,000    536,000    220,000        26,000      11,000       -
LMMC Headquarters                         245,000    354,000    316,000        58,000       -           -           -
Technical Assistance                      157,000    172,000    184,000    189,000    154,000  _  14,000            -
Total Investments                    1,713,000  4,505,000  4,393,000    791,000    413,000    178,000            -
Project Operating Costs
LNMC Block Trains                           -           -         325,000    429,000    610,000    817,000    984,000
Railway Holding and Transit Yards           -           1,000    130,000    179,000    204,000    222,000    222,000
Livestock Markets                          41,000      87,000    141,000    217,000    264,000    :312,000    312,000
LMMC Headquarters   '                     176,000    334,000    359,000    3312000    335,000             _       339,000
Total Operating Costs                  217,000    422,000    955,000  1,156,000  1,413,000  1,690,000  1,857,000
Adjustments to Costs 31
Taxes                                    (309,000)  (788,000)  (804,000)  (243,000)  (195,000)  (168,000)   (71,000)
Foreign Exchange                          191,000    487,000    497,000    150,000    121,000    105,000    159,000
Physical Contingency                      181,000    463,000    472,000    143,000    114,000          99,000       -
LMMC Working Capital 4/                     -           -        (446,000)  (324,000)  (233,000)  (153,000)   (65,000)
Total Adjustments                       63,000    162,000   (281,000)  (274,000)  (193,000)  (117,000)    (23,000)
Net Incremental Economic Benefits         (1,993,000)(5,089,000)(3,720,000)   181,000  1,113,000  1,884,000  2,856,000
Economic Rate of Return 15Z
1/  Net of operating costs which are accounted for under the headings:
'Railway Holding and Transit Yards'.
2/  Net of operating costs which are accounted for under the heading:
"Livestock Markets".
3/  Additions to and (Deductions) from
4/  Since full operating costs relating to the Block Train Operation
have been included, an adjustment was necessary to eliminate
that portion of the working capital deficit arising from
operating losses, to avoid double counting.



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Cattle Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
CATTLE             Jan.     Feb.      March    April      May      June     July    Aug.   Sept.    Oct.    Nov.        Dec.
Av. Liveweight before
Trek (kgs)          300      300        300       300      300       300     300      300    300   300        300     300
Est. Weight loss in
Trekking (Z)            12        12        15        15        18       18       20       5    -        5        10       10
L/W after Trek (kgs)         264       264        255      255       246      246      240      285    300   285       270      270
L/W Loss per head (kgs)       36        36         45       45        54        54      60       15    -       15       30       30
Yield Carcass to L/W
(X)          48        48        46.5      46.5      45       45       44       51     53    51        49       49
Carcass Weight (kgs)         126.72   126.72    118.58   118.58   110.7    110.7   105.6   145.35 159   145.35   132.3   132.3
C/W Loss per head(kgs)        32.28    32.28       40.42    40.42    48.3       48.3    53.4    13.65  -       13.65    26.7    26.7
L/W Loss per '000
Head (tons)               36        36        45        45        54       54       60       15     -      15       30       30
C/W Loss per '000
Head (tons)               32.28    32.28      40.42    40.42    48.3       48.3    53.4    13.65  -        13.65    26.7    26.7
Value per ton (ESd)          500       500        500      500       500       500     500      500     -    500        500     500
Value C/W Loss per
'000 Read (ESd)        16,140   16,140    20,210   20,210   24,150   24,150  26,700   6,825          -  6,825   13,350  13,350
August 12, 1977                                                                                                                |
H



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Sheep Trekking Losses, Weight and Value
SHEEP                     Jan.    Feb.    March    April        May      June    July    Aug.  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
Av. Liveweight before Trek (kgs)          40       40        40        40        40      40       40      40    40       40      40      40
Est. Weight loss in trekking (%)          10       10        12        12        15      15       18       5      -        5      3       8
L/W after Trek  (kgs)                     36       36        35.2      35.2      34      34       32.8   38    40        38      36.8   36.8
L/W Loss per head (kgs)                    4        4         4.8       4.8       6        6       7.2    2       -        2      3.2    3.2
Yield Carcass to L/W  (%)                 48       48        47        47        46      46       45      50    52        50     49      49
Carcass Weight (kgs)                      17.28   17.28    16.54    16.54    15.64   15.64   14.76  19    20.8    19             18.03  18.oj
C/W Loss per Head (kgs)                    3.52    3.52       4.26      4.26      5.16    5.16    6.04   1.8   -           1.8    2.77   2.7j
L/W Loss per '000 Head (tons)               4       4         4.8       4.8       6        6        7.2    2      -        2       3.2    3.2
C/W Loss per '000 Head (tons)              3.52    3.52       4.26      4.26      5.16    5.16    6.04   1.8   -           1.8    2.77   2.77
Value per ton (tSd)                      700     700       700       700       700      700      700    700      -      700    700    700
Value C/W loss per '000 Head            2464    2464       2082      2982      361Z    3612    4228   1260        -    1260   1939   1939
(ESd )
August 12, 1977
I-.4



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Weight       1976/77 Price        Estimated 1978    Estimated International
Range          Range 1/           Sudan Price          Price 2/ - 1978
Bull                 350-400 kg      E 70-135                E 135                 US$ 340 4/
Steer 3/             220-280 kg      E 50-98                 E  80                   N.A.
Hamadi Sheep          44-50  kg      E 15-21                 E  28                 US$  80
Kababish Sheep        42-46  kg      E 13-20                 E  26                 US$ 70
Watish Sheep 3/       38-42  kg      E 10-16                 E  18                    N.A.
1/ At the Omdurman market.
2/ F.o.b. Port Sudan.
3/ Not export grade.
4/ The beef price equivalent is US$1.71 per kg in current dollars, or US$1.45 in
constant 1975 dollars. IBRD currently rpojects beef prices to increase from
US$147 in 1977 to US$200 in 1985, expressed in constant 1975 U.S. dollars. In
the economic analysis, dinternational prices were held constant at the 1978 level.
> 4
F4aL



SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Project Effect on Livestock Marketing and Export
('000 Head)
Base Year          Full Development          Increase                Part of Increase
Attributable to Project
1977                 1984
Cattle   Sheep       Cattle      Sheep        Cattle   Sheep        Cattle        Sheep      %
Marketable Surplus 1/              160       640         251        1,659          91      1,019         4             51       5
Market Throughput 2/               112       384         200        1,160          88        776        44            388      50
Railed to Khartoum 3/                3       128          51          614          48        486        48            486    100
Railed to Port Sudan 3/             12       200          23          485          11        285        11            285    100
Disposition of Marketable
Surplus
Domestic Consumption
Rural                             67.4    102          118          185          50.6       83         2.5             4      5
Urban 4/                          86       375         121          531          35        156         2               8      5
Exports
Live                              11       200          21          485          10        285        10             285    100
Processed                          o.6      24           4           86           3.4       62         3.4            62    100
1/  Only from the provinces affected by the Project (Bahr El Ghazal, North & South Darfur and Kordofan, and Whlite
Nile). Due to the difficulty of isolating the increase attributable to the Project from other factors
(veterinary services, changes in consumption patterns, increased herd productivity), any economic benetits
which might be derived from this increase were not included in Project calculations.
2/  Base Year:  70% of cattle, 60% of sheep:  full development;  80% and 70% respectively.
3/  1977:  SRC estimates;  1984;  projected on the assumption Sudan Railways' livestock operations
continue at 1977 levels.
4/  Khartoum and Wad Medani.
November 22, 1977






'30
25                               SUDAN                                                                                                                                          2 5
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
STOCK ROUTES                                                                                   I
Main Stock Routes                              0              0           200            300 
27    F  d   tk      |WANCES IN MILES                               2030 
Feecder Stock Routes I  OS NMOSMILES
Water Points                                   o       100      Co        300 o     00      500
Rowys                                                          KILOAAETERS/
RD ers Heodqoes                          ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT                                       -
Towns aind Villages
- Province Boundories
internoltonal Boundrrdes                                                                  od    I I
A  R. 
L IBYA    I
20-                                                                                                                                                                             20-
I J  |    \  8            5       A              PORT SUDAN
DONGOLAe                  I            A
i  ~~~~~~ I                                           /'                \''\                      )~~~~~~~~~~~ 
|          |                              ,                 ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                          ~      ~~~~~/ ASb  o r  ,
N O R  HERN    KHARO  
K O R  O    AN OFAA/ d hor 4                                                              !
IJrr,r   Poko.dKAROu                      .  ASA
/ N O   R  T  H  E '4  N                                             t El wu E,          hee      S-dc   E   \(
K                Kcte&# ,R   F                                      R  U..b d                 h                   /                        j
\Gore.no               os                                               Urre od        Un,n,e                                  r  r      f 
C 5~ f                    ELFASIIES I-_s                              ufl sEl J U"..                   1   W A
\    Idd El Gh_ ;._ _12  ~~~~    7  _vo    /   5  0 fU  | H  F  R~E 11.,l  AuGbh     f EDAN   MZI  
-    'A                           I~~~~~~~~~'g,S.-Ui,                                                                  ...
j  Rgaeed dDOI55C                                                SID  fbnso E odnso tt  9HEI io    |       t-  .--
/~~~~~o >                                                                         ErEohdfZaW  IAuooi   TE tx   K O     U E OF      
g / \~~~~~~~~~~~ K                                    tNjt4              obe,hom \    ' Iogm/  \N  / L j'
5NAL' |              "Hross       >.tOoO        I /     ZLbod 6      >     ~~  ZDMAAKAl            N  /( iE  I E    /        
_.-      /~                           .             /           HE   t)                         _
CENTRAL~~~~~Soor AHRICA         '          aos         MIad  KA0GI                                                           /'S              GzL 
ELFAS'--                    ..                                              -S n                      -
4      .                 j       ~       S  -< -       - 4e.r.r,r\   Rsnrr \. /i                                  //  Co,  ro   /                                  5
<~~~ ~                                                                          ~ ~~~~ ~                              ~~ 5' < So'ss.  '\
5--    -  --                                  r,b  lD
, ~ .                                       / E               I j E L | C  O;   Z A I R E   \  ;   \H  G n EDAMI
T,,(,,.,., . , !, ,,fi9.,d,KA UGLAN           D        A        >KNY 
\ . ,1 ,.,,2L~   ...\.                   ,         ,1, ,I .,                            . :.'_, \ 'O~-
CE TA              AF IA           25'~ JI../s, U,,,t N,,,,,,,E
E   EUMBEE~~~~ALKE                                                  I0P     
EMPIRE                               - -- -----   -_4P  ~/               YRA7    T
-~~~      5~~ -  5 - -- - - - - - - - - -
REPUBLI C    O~   ZAIRE                           ..         -*.-~* -.- ~ ,_
(    UGANDA                                             KENYA    .-
20  55.55105-. ~~~~~ s,  30~~     ~~25                                                                   100Z






25-                                  ~~~~~~~~30.                                         3?-
-25                         SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                   2
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT 
Market and  Railway  Infrastructure4
L --   d   -  .r.-  C..... .  lMMI                 0020020
0)       100       200        300       400       500
Ter.oM-'e-                                                                ...OMEIERS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a      .--orEs,,                                    ARAB   REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT 
L MMC I 5R, Tr-,orot Ofice                                                                                            I
Esiro  aL-irok Moist,          co
AA     T-ornl-  Morsors 
A   S-codorMoses                        IN                                     R T HE5RN                                                         R    E
Rust                 'ji                                                                   AO11,                          Abl-or.7~                    A           A. PORTS SDA
C  Nut,otro Cop,titoAl,,I
EL CEED C Pr-to. H,ooottrsDONGOLA 0                                                                                                                                              o Shot,,
Ro,o  tOCounI Heodguo--,                                                                            A,                                                                5,nkt
Moot 0 Other Toss,~                                                                                                                                                                A
- -   ...so.oto . ousuot-I                                                                    Ed Doboo0A   0.ott                     ACe;-oeA
CHAD                     I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C AMERod                                              B,           D-.
15'     /                 ~~~~~NORTHERN                             NO RT7'HE5R N    itS~.ot
D  A  P  P  U  P           aornortrtos~~~ Hs SehIf.iH, o.Rudo \
15-                                AOM.1h.                J~~~~~~~rnn  oA  S AAo Soot.d ,- 0A                             WADGdME
/ .~~~~~~                                                                                        El Moo5~~~~~~~~IE
-EL RASHER                                                                                                  S.krnr
O A   -           -----O                            I       W   B-d.                                       Coo -*Sk,
a                                   'Born Gottod  CD,ulOut,      N.E CR010 A-I                        nStoA.
"A                                                                                                   Z5   17                NI 5  A4s 
5 SOUTHER                  tuuuo                             b<,                                          HT         ,oeNi 
dd EIrnr         OlA dSu-ir, I.          -    4Et Os50   UI T H  E  R  NEo do    RN              0        DD
fuo                              *~~~~~~~E,I  0suol AT.,         ud,-              oIes000
AA.  RPSt-d                          AEu5             b ...        ROOAEl                      '                   E-u      SmE A
N                            K,AA.- -                                              HN b-UPPER                                   -I.u' /S
K.Bik  E) T. d,ok'
Ip  A  H  RE  I           Ade       WTRo   R?twon        F A 
I ~~~~~A                 N4.
(  Ds,mZab.tr  AF4~~~~~~~~~~~  EL  ~~~~    JUNIGLEIT 'I")NPI 
EMPIRE                    '-            I    EUMREECA                       ~       ~~~~~~ .uoePbo  ot                  '
_____________~~~~~~~~~A-                                                                                       A
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _                                                                     0000~~~~~~~~D -    ,,..    N                           NGZL
K    V/cSFEPN  ~~~~  ;-~~~~uA Kg-    ESEN"'
CENTRAL     A RICAN                                                  3 U E 0RA'.'Ac!O                                       ocoo
A                                                                  "5        Ruc to ~~~~~~~~~~~~1,  T RN~  t- rn-Is   Ou,    A s. 
CS                                                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A%  V 0. -AST~              
K                                                                                                                           soc~j4 T0   
2      GA N DA                       N              KE:N YA             
35 0



