Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-21 93a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
March 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977       February 1978
Currency Unit         -       Sudaneses Pounds (ES)      ES
US$1                  =       ES 0.4013                  LS 0.400
ES I                  =       US$2.50                    US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2             =        0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                     0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =        2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)                  =        2,205 pounds (lbs)
I feddan                            =        1.038 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
LMMC   -  Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
SRC    -  Sudan Railways Corporation
ILO    -  International Labor Organization
CG     -  Consultative Group
UNESCO -  United Nations Education, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
WHO    - World Health Organization
AAAID  - Arab Authorilty for Agricultural Investment
and Development
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR I/
July 1 - June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
SUDAN
LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Democratic Republic of the Sudan-
Beneficiries:  The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation and Sudan Railways
Corporation.
Amount:        US$25 million equivalent.  Part of the proceeds of the IDA
credit would be passed on to LMMC on equity terms and $9.5
million to SRC as a loan for 20 years including 5 years grace,
with interest at 8% per annum.
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  The project would represent a first step in the long term
development of Sudan's livestock industry and would help to
relieve some of the major constraints which have hampered the
expansion of national livestock production. Over a six-year
period, the project would support the creation of an organized,
national livestock marketing system through the improvement of
both market and transport infrastructure aud the provision of
staff and supporting services for the Livestock and Meat Market-
ing Corporation (LMMC) established in 1976. The project wc-, Id
permit an increased marketed offtake, resulting in incre-:s >
supplies of meat and livestock products for local consumcr-s and
for export. The project would finance livestock transport,
especially locomotives and wagons for livestock block trains;
establishment of livestock holding, transit and terminal yards
along the railway line; improvement or establishment of primary,
secondary and terminal markets; construction of LMMC head-
quarters, vehicles and equipment for LMMC and a contribution
to LMMC's operating costs for an initial period; technical
assistance, training and studies. The project would be
executed by LMMC, the Department of Animal Resources and the
Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC).
Benefits and   The principal benefits would be weight loss savings and
Risks:        maintenance cost savings for livestock moving from the West
to Khartoum and an increased number of animals transported
from Khartoum to Port Sudan for export. There would be
substantial unquantified benefits. The principal risks are
related to the operational efficiency of Sudan Railways and
the rate of acceptance of the block train service by users.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i:i )
Cost and Financing:
US$ million
Local       Foreign       Total
Livestock Transport                   5.5         10.3         15.8
Transport Infrastructure              4.3          3.2           7.5
Market Infrastructure                 4.4          2.3           6.7
LMMC Headquarters & Staff             5.2          2.0          7.2
Technical Assistance & StudLes        0.6          1.7          2.3
Contingencies                         6.3          5.5         11.8
Total                              26.3         25.0         51.3
Of which, Taxes and Duties            8.2          -            8.2
Total, net of taxes and dut:Les    18.1           25.0         43.1
The IDA credit, amounting to 58% of the total cost net of taxes,
would finance the bulk of the foreign exchange cost and $1.9 million of the
local costs. The UK would finance the foreign and local costs of the tech-
nical assistance component. The balance of the local costs amounting to 35%
of total qosts net of taxes would be f-inanced by the Government. IDA has
approved an advance of $0.4 million under the Project Preparation Facility to
enable the project to get under way without delay, this advance would be
refinanced from the proposed credit.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Mill-ion to June 30)
1979    1980    1981   1982    1983    1984    1985
2.4     4.0      6.1      4.0      3.5     2.0      3.0
Cumulative    2.4       6.4    12.5    16.5    20.0    22.0    25.0
Rate of Return:  15%.
Appraisal Report:
Report No. 1726-SU             Dated February 24, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR A LIVESTOCK MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, for the equivalent
of US$25 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Livestock Marketing
Project. The UK would finance the technical assistance component estimated to
cost $3.1 million on grant terms. $9.5 million of the credit would be relent
to the Sudan Railways Corporation for 20 years, including 5 years of grace
with interest at 8% per annum. The balance of the credit would be passed on
to LMMC on equity terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 19mt
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides an assessment of the economic situation and
prospects of the Sudan. Prior to that, Bank staff had participated in the
ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission in 1975 and played a major role
in both the conception and execution of the mission's work. Whilst the
mission was an employment strategy mission, its focus, as with previous ILO
missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-income earners
in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's report is
comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and conclusions
are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy issues -ith
the Government and for the development of our program of operations. The
report has been influential in stimulating discussion of development policy
issues in the country. A special government working group reviewed the report
and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of its analysis and conclu-
sions. The report also provided a major input into the preparation of the Six
Year Plan for 1977-83. An updating economic mission is scheduled for May
1978.  Social and economic data on Sudan are attached as Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa, with a population of about 15.9 million.  Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is little population pressure on presently dev-
eloped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or
1/   Parts I and II and Annexes I and II of this report are identical to those
in the separate President Report on the Port Project.



semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricul-
tural development. Estimates indicate that about one-third (85 million
hectares) of the total land area is siuitable for crop or pastoral production,
and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use. In addition,
the White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has
enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical
Africa. The Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to two thirds of
that allocated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there
remains room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The proximity
of Sudan to markets in the Middle Easit and Europe places it in a good position
for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly
come to consider Sudan as a primary fulture source of agricultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is still
a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed country.
The most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1976) is based upon esti-
mates of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to exagger-
ate the standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of develop-
ment of its economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country where
most of the people have very low incomes.  The economy is still heavily
dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on
irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its
considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the prodluction of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and further development
of these deposits is taking place. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nationalization
measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and
finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the
GDP is still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through
excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position
was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of
export volume.



- 3 -
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade
in many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in invest-
ment, especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the
priority sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and
agricultural processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern
with developmental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion
at the political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth
in the Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the
Government has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly.
Not only is this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these
problems in which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the
past two years but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank
report which the Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in
November 1976. This report and the Bank's own critical evaluation of
Sudanese development performance and prospects were freely discussed by the
Government with delegations to the CG meeting. In January 1977, the Govern-
ment organized an informal meeting of representatives of national and interna-
tional financial institutions, chaired by President Nimeiry and attended
by all the economic ministers at which a frank presentation of the develop-
mental issues was encouraged. Whilst all this increased interest in devel-
opmental issues does not substitute for action, it is a necessary precondi-
tion for action and certainly represents a marked change from the situation
existing a few years ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of an effective planning machinery, with the assis-
tance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing agency.
The Six-Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 launched in July 1977 is the
most immediate and important outcome of this effort. A comprehensive educa-
tion sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO assistance has also been
completed, and an exercise to develop a primary health care program has been
completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Public investment, which increased
from US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years
1975-77, has been concentrated on the highest priorities. Sugar imports
should be eliminated by 1979 and sugar will be available for export by 1980,
reaching an estimated volume of 0.5 million tons in 1987. Textile and sacking
imports will be much reduced by 1979. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and
some other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an
oil pipeline has recently been commissioned, and both road and rail capacity
are rising, helping to ease the transport bottleneck. All the data on private
investment are poor, but it seems that private investment has expanded rapidly
also.



- 4+ -
9.        While the increased rate of investment on the part of the public
sector, which is bringing about significant structural changes in the econ-
omy, is in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties
and early seventies, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a
matter of concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is
reflected in a revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20%, the public sector
continues to be a net dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has
had to be financed entirely through domestic and foreign borrowing. The
resulting credit expansion has been an important contributory factor to
domestic price increases averaging over 20% per annum in the last three
years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided
with the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973,
and the recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected
export earnings. The volume of cotton exports in 1975 was 45% below
the average of the preceding three years. A number of domestic factors,
including an unfavorable cost-price structure, also contributed to this
decline. As a result, the foreign exchange constraint to growth and the
budgetary difficulties were exacerbatetd. A major consequence of these devel-
opments was a resort to foreign borrowing to finance development expenditures
and to support the balance of payments. From an average of $50 million per
annum in 1971-73 gross disbursements cf foreign loans rose to $450 million in
1974, and in the last three years havet been of the order of $300 million,
annually. Excluding 1974 when the severity of the terms of borrowing reduced
the grant element of loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to
borrow on relatively concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4%
interest rate, 24 years maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75.
Nevertheless, the sharply increased borrowing in the last few years, a sig-
nificant proportion of which was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans,
has resulted in a quadrupling of external public debt between 1972 and 1975
and has imposed a heavy debt servicing; burden on the country (see para. 14).
Furthermore, the Central Bank has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order
to finance the increasing overall deficit. As a result, Sudan's net inter-
national reserve position moved from net liabilities of less than $45 mil-
lion at the end of December 1970 to $5125 million in March 1977.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan took a
number of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned,
consumer subsidies have been sharply reduced, defense expenditure was re-
strained and railway and utility tariffs increased. Tax measures introduced
in the 1977 budget are estimated to have added about 10 percent to Govern-
ment revenue. In 1977, these measures were supplemented by additional mea-
sures designed to increase tariffs and other indirect taxes on luxury consumer
goods, while reducing those on essential consumer goods. The net effect of
these measures is a small increase in revenues. In any case, with the Govern-
ment already absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the form of current receipts,
it would be unrealistic in the short run to expect any significant increase in
the level of taxation, and essential improvement in Government savings and



reduction in credit expansion will have to come from holding the growth of
recurrent expenditures below the growth of revenue. In a significant move in
October 1977, the Minister of Finance ordered a 10% cut in recurrent expen-
diture of Government ministries.
12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is re-
quired in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures
do not exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from
the central to provincial and, through them to local governments need to be
placed on a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital
budget is concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many proj-
ects being started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the
recurrent expenditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious
consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax system
should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduction in the
reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based consumption taxes
and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the growth in the modern
agricultural sector. Another important aspect of resource mobilization is
the role of parastatals. While the public sector in Sudan dominates all non-
traditional economic activities, public enterprises have failed to generate
adequate surpluses to finance development expenditures, and their operational
deficits have become a drain on the Government budget. The Government is
carrying out a comprehensive review of the operations and performance of
parastatal organizations. Bank staff have been assisting in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt
management and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery.
In particular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden, which
reached 24 percent in 1977 and was projected to peak at about 31 percent in
1978, and in order that the debt service ratio falls to more manageable levels
in the early 1980's, it is essential for Government to borrow on concessionary
terms and to restrict borrowing to that required for priority investments. In
addition to factors described above (para. 10) which were responsible for the
build up of external public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also
one of knowledge - the multiplicity of agencies in the Government dealing with
some aspects of data collection or debt management makes it difficult to
obtain a comprehensive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt trans-
actions. New procedures to ensure better debt management were introduced by a
decree issued in February 1976 which confined the authority to contract
foreign loans to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy. The
Bank in July 1976 presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of
Sudan's debt data and made recommendations for the centralization and analysis
of such data. Further discussions on this question are planned for May 1978.
Short- and Long-Term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a
transitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent



on the fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottle-
necks, especially in transportation, 'to a more rapidly growing economy
with more diversified production and exports. The process of change is
hindered by serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied
by serious financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments
problems facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless
imperative for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency,
encourage public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of pay-
ments and debt management policies. The IMF is currently having discussions
with the Government on the short-run economic problems.
16.       The medium- to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the Six-Year Plan, whose implementation began on July 1, 1977,
include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5% per annum in 1977-83), and
emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in incomes. During the plan
period, development strategy will conl:inue to emphasize agriculture as the
leading sector, but its structural interdependence with other sectors, par-
ticularly manufacturing will be stressed through agricultural processing,
the production of basic agricultural :Lnputs and implements, and the promotion
of small scale and cottage industry. Considerable investment will also go
into further reduction and removal of critical bottlenecks in physical and
institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties, the
growth prospects of Sudan depend signiLficantly on foreign capital inflows and
on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the crucial
assumptions underlying the Government"s plan is the expectation of large in-
flow of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expectation, in
turn, will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-rich Arab
countries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged as the
largest source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement basis,
Arab aid (excluding a $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by Saudi
Arabia) increased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million in 1974.
Whilst a large proportion of these disbursements has been for balance of
payments support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key projects as
the Rahad Irrigation Project, the oil--pipeline, the airport at Port Sudan, a
number of highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave project. For the
future, of much potential significance is the ten-year Basic Agricultural
Development Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab Fund for Social and
Economic Development. Over the next six years (1977-83) a First Phase Invest-
ment Plan, which forms the core of Sudan's Six-Year Development Plan and
consists of some 61 projects selected from the basic program, is expected to
be implemented at a total cost of about $2 billion. To help implement the
agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments on November 1, 1976 signed an
agreement establishing an autonomous body, the Arab Authority for Agricultural
Investment and Development (AAAID). T'he authorized capital for AAAID has been
established at US$510 million, of which 75 percent has been subscribed. The
Authority is limited to a debt/ equity ratio of 2:1. Ratification of the
AAAID agreement is at an advanced stage and steps are being taken to commence
operations.



- 7 -
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the
Arab Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will
be needed to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to
the program. Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past
are expanding their programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for
the first time. Local cost financing is justified in certain cases for
projects with a high local cost component and which are designed primarily
to benefit the poor. These are likely to be located primarily in Southern and
Western Sudan, the least developed areas of the country.
19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the last
three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and domestic
resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are familiar
problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the country.
However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in the
preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be realized.
The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss openly
the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it will
follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of develop-
ment by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project
work, by extending technical assistance to improve project identification,
preparation and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on
policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $377.1
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been on irrigated agriculture and
railway development, but other projects financed have included two power
projects, two education projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation
project, three agricultural projects, two credits to a development finance
company and a technical assistance credit. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31,
1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share
of debt service is 10% and of debt outstanding is 11% (1976). We estimate the
Bank/IDA of debt service will fall to about 5% in 1985, when the Bank/IDA
share of debt outstanding would be about 12%.
21.       Physical progress in implementing Bank group operations in the
Sudan varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced



- 8 -
difficulty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber,
of which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with the exception of the First Education Project, whose imple-
mentation difficulties have been compounded by very weak management, these
difficulties have been manageable. ThLe Rahad Irrigation Project, which
earlier experienced numerous difficulties, is being constructed with real
determination, and phase 1 was inaugurated in December by President Nimeiry.
Although physical progress under the T'hird Railway Project is satisfactory,
progress in achieving the operational improvement has been disappointing.
Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan are running at a rate of about $35
million per annum.
22.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The Technical Assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit. The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level
of investment. The timing of the next consultative group meeting is under
discussion.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to empha-
size agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investment to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in the traditional agriculture sector.
We are assisting the Government in preparing projects in irrigation and
mechanized farming and agricultural research. The Second Education Project
now under implementation emphasizes training in the rural areas. Identi-
fication of future education projects on the basis of the recently completed
sector survey is making headway. Lack of transport facilities continues
to hamper movement of goods within the country and to the outside world.
A second highway project is under appraisal, and included in most agriculture
projects is a feeder road component. A ports project is being presented to
the Board separately, and a fourth railway project was approved in June 1977.
With the two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is sup-
porting private investment in the growing industrial sector. Other projects
under consideration include power and water supply and agricultural credit.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Current Significance of Agriculture
24.       Agriculture contributes about 40% of Sudan's gross domestic product;
over 95% of export receipts; about 75% of employment; about 90% of the raw



- 9 -
materials for the industrial sector; and a substantial proportion of govern-
ment revenues. The crucial nature of the sector to Sudan's development and
the perceived potential of the sector has called for careful and continuing
analysis. The last Bank analysis of the sector (apart from a significant
contribution to the ILO Report - see below) was contained in Volume III of the
Economic Report on the Sudan, dated June 9, 1972 (AE-27)). Since then analysis
of the sector has continued in the Government's own agencies; in the Country
Perspective Study carried out by FAO in 1973, which explored alternative
agricultural development strategies up to 1985 or 1990; in the study of the
investment requirements of the sector carried out by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development; and in the 1975 ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy
Mission. The Bank is currently carrying out an agricultural sector review of
Sudan with emphasis especially on issues facing the sector. This report is
expected to be discussed with the Government next month and released by
mid-1978.
The Resource Base
25.       Of the total area of the Sudan (250 million hectares) about one-
third is suitable for crop and pastoral farming. At present most of
this area is used, largely in an unsystematic fashion as range lands.
Approximately 9 million hectares are cultivated and of this area about 1.7
million hectares irrigated. Approximately 35 million hectares is potentially
arable. The use of Nile waters is governed by the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement
bstween Sudan and Egypt, under which Sudan hs entitled to use 18.5 milliard
m measured at Aswan (about 20.5 milliard m measured at Sennar). Current
consumption is about two-thirds of Sudan's entitlement. Current and planned
investment will raise Sudan's consumption towards its entitlement, and Sudan
and Egypt jointly are starting conservation works aimed at reducing losses of
Nile Water due to evaporation and seepage. The size and location of the
country, extending from the dry tropical zone into the equatorial zone, mean
that a great variety of agricultural produce can be grown in the country, from
cereals, cotton and oil seeds of the dry tropical regions to tea, coffee,
rice and other equatorial produce in the south. Large areas of the Savannah
belt are suitable for rearing cattle and sheep.
Current Pattern of Production
26.       There are three main types of agriculture in the Sudan.  Irrigated
agriculture is limited mainly to the area between and either side of the
White and Blue Niles upstream of their confluence, and to some smaller areas
irrigated by the Main Nile, Atbara and other rivers. Current expansion of
irrigated agriculture is almost entirely in this area, the irrigated areas
produce nearly all of the long staple and medium staple cotton grown in the
Sudan, and also produce groundnuts, sugarcane, wheat and other grains, pulses
fruit and vegetables. The Bank was involved, in the past, in some of the
major expansions in irrigated agriculture in the 1960s and in the building of
the Roseires dam which is providing water for further expansion. Rainfed
agriculture has been developed mainly in the region lying on each side of



- 10 -
the Blue Nile, towards the Ethiopian frontier and in Southern Kordofan.
Much of this agriculture is mechanized, due to the nature of the soils and
the very large areas involved. The principal crops here are sorghum, short
staple cotton and sesame. In the center and west of the country and in the
whole of the southern region subsistence agriculture is dominant; the major
staple crops being millet and sorghum in the savannah and sorghum, maize and
cassava in the South. Although traditional farming and stock-rearing techni-
ques prevail, the sector nevertheless contributes significantly to exports of
groundnuts, gum arabic and livestock. However, marketing and transportation
difficulties limit the return to the livestock producer, and there are large
disparities between the earnings of those engaged in traditional agricultural
and livestock production and the earnings of the owners and tenants of mechan-
ized and irrigated farms. This in turn means that there are large regional
differences in income levels, although these are ameliorated somewhat by
seasonal employment in the modern sector schemes.
27.       In the eight years 1967-75, the area under cotton was stable.  In
1976 the area declined about 10% as part of a conscious decision to diversify
agricultural production. In the same period, the area under several other
crops has increased significantly--sorghum/millet by 47%, groundnuts by 140%,
sesame by 82% and wheat by 170%. These acreage expansions are largely re-
sponsible for the increase in production, yields having stagnated. Diversifi-
cation away from cotton is expected to continue, with sugar emerging as a very
important crop. As mentioned above, Sudan's exports are almost entirely of
agricultural produce and livestock. Cotton has normally accounted for about
60% of total exports, oil seeds 17%, oil cake 6%, livestock products 7% and
gum arabic about 8%. However, imports of agricultural produce have also been
significant, amounting to about 18% oiE total imports by 1970, rising to more
than 25% by 1974. During the period of very high prices of sugar and wheat,
imports of these products imposed a severe strain on Sudan's balance of
payments and domestic finances. In the light of the potential for further
agricultural production and of the problems caused by imports of agricultural
produce, Sudan is giving high priority to the expansion of agricultural
exports and the achievement of self-sufficiency in presently imported agricul-
tural commodities.
Organization
28.       Commercial farming in the Sudan is carried out largely under the
authority of state corporations--the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation,
the Public Agricultural Production Corporation in the field of irrigated
agriculture and the Mechanized Farming Corporation in the field of dryland
farming. The Cotton Public Corporation, Oil Seeds Company and the Gum Arabic
Company provide particular services to the cotton, oil seeds and gum arabic
producers, and the Agricultural Bank of Sudan provides credit to a relatively
small number of farmers. The irrigation corporations exercise very close
control over farming carried out in the areas under their supervision,
prescribing the rotation system, the crops to be grown and the planting times;
providing credit and specialized services such as crop-spraying, and having in
some cases monopoly purchasing power over the crops produced. Another group



- 11 -
of corporations controls both domestic and foreign trade in many agricultural
and livestock products, applying state pricing policies. Subsistence agricul-
ture and livestock rearing operate more independently but nevertheless they
are much influenced by the policies, including prices, set by the state-owned
or licensed corporations. In 1976, legislation was introduced to encourage
Sudanese and foreign private sector investment in agriculture. A number of
such investments have already been undertaken, which will introduce a new
influence into the agriculture sector.
29.       Ministerial supervision is exercised through two ministries, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (Agriculture) and the
Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power. The Ministry of Agriculture
provides a large range of services to the agriculture and livestock sectors
and is well staffed in certain fields. In other fields, such as extension or
range management, the institutions and manpower are inadequate. The Ministry
of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is, on the whole, well staffed and
competent, with much experience in the construction and operation of large
scale irrigation schemes.
Sectoral Problems
30.       The great potential for agricultural expansion poses difficult
questions of choice both for existing production and in regard to new invest-
ment. For example, development of new irrigated areas means a high level of
investment, a higher output per hectare and considerable employment generation.
Improvement of existing irrigated agriculture requires less investment and can
bring a high rate of return, but, without reduced tenancy sizes, will increase
incomes already quite high by Sudanese standards and generate relatively
little employment. Mechanized dryland farming also requires less capital
investment than irrigated agriculture, and provides less employment but also
mobilizes private capital for agricultural development. All three types of
agricultural development can yield large foreign exchange earnings and savings.
Development of subsistence agriculture and livestock may contribute less to
exports in the short term, but can do much for the incomes of the pooresL
people in Sudan. (It is worth noting, that about one third of Sudan's ground-
nut and nearly all of the gum arabic and livestock exports are generated in
the traditional sector.) Given the vast areas of land remaining to be brought
into more productive use, and the nature of some of the soils, a high level of
mechanization may well be justified. But a way has to be found to ensure that
the poorer people benefit from the resulting higher productivity. The degree
of mechanization will also partly depend on the availability of seasonal
labor, on which modern agriculture currently depends heavily. Labor is
remarkably mobile in Sudan, but upgrading of agriculture in the poorer parts
of the country could have the effect of reducing the willingness of labor to
make the long journey to obtain seasonal employment. A further problem
concerns the incentive system in the sector. The current incentive system
does not favor agricultural exports, while the institutional relationship
between the irrigation corporations and tenants is not always conducive to
higher yields, nor does it encourage responsiveness to market demand. Para-
graph 49 and 50 below describe the measures being taken to encourage livestock
exports.



- 12 -
31.       Large complementary investment will be required in transportation,
storage, credit, marketing facilities and research to meet the needs of the
planned expansion in agricultural production. Currently, agricultural re-
search is concentrated principally on irrigated agriculture, especially
cotton production. Investment in research concerned with rainfed agricul-
ture urgently requires expansion and the Bank Group has recently appraised
an agriculture research project. OutFput of high-level agriculture staff
from existing and planned agriculture training establishments is expected
to be adequate, but a large training requirement remains at the lower levels.
Investment Objectives
32.       Current public investment is directed, firstly, at the expansion of
wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity for imports and to generate
exports; secondly, at the expansion of medium staple cotton and groundnut
production in the Rahad project; and thirdly, at expansion of mechanized dry-
land farming to produce sorghum and setsame. Private investment in mechanized
farming and in the production of groundnuts in the traditional sector is also
expected to expand rapidly. In the South progress in the rehabilitation of
agriculture is reasonable with assistaLnce from an IDA financed and other
projects. The current focus of livestock development is on marketing, export
quality improvements, production research and disease control generally. In
considering how to realize its agricultural potential, Sudan has to find the
right balance between a range of priorities and development alternatives,
which sometimes conflict. To provide the foreign exchange for its investment
program in all sectors and to service its debt, high priority will be given to
agricultural production and processing for the export market. This type of
investment is likely to absorb the bulk of the available resources. To assist
in the mobilization of funds, the Government expects, and will encourage, an
increasing role for the private sector--in self-contained modern sector
schemes, in the mechanized farming schemes for which the public sector would
provide the essential infrastructure and services, and for the tenants on the
irrigation schemes, who would be encouraged through an improved system of
incentives. To help redress the regional disparities in incomes, the Govern-
ment will give priority to the development of subsistence agriculture. How-
ever, this form of investment is unlikely initially to absorb a large propor-
tion of the available funds, due to the many constraints which can only
be overcome slowly. Some modern sector schemes will be located in the West
and South, which would also help to reduce regional income disparities.
33.       Of particular importance to the future development of agriculture
in Sudan will be the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Develop-
ment, a financing agency which has been established to help implement the
development proposals made by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Develop-
ment. The principal objective will be production for export to the Arab
World, but the program recognizes the need for balanced development among
the regions (para. 17).



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background, Description and Purpose
34.       The proposed project has emerged from several proposals made to the
Sudan Government for development of the sector over the last three years. The
most important of these were a railway transport/marketing project prepared by
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and a technical assistance project developed
by UNDP. Final preparation of the Project was the responsibility of the Live-
stock and Meat Marketing Corporation, assisted by an FAO consultant and staff
seconded from the Ministy of Agriculture, Food and National Resources. Orig-
inally appraised as a component of the Savannah Development Project, approved
by the Board in June 1977, the project was reappraised in February/March 1977,
and negotiated in January 1978. The Sudanese delegation at the negotiations
was lead by the Under Secretary of the Ministry of National Planning.
35.       The Sudan has an estimated livestock population of some 15 million
cattle, 16 million sheep, 11 million goats and 2 million camels. These
livestock are owned principally by nomadic pastoralists, who inhabit some
100 million hectares of rangeland, many of them in Western Sudan. Livestock
available for sale are marketed through a traditional marketing system which
on the whole has operated well, although various constraints make it incapable
of meeting the now growing needs and opportunities.   Livestock sold by
producers enter the marketing system through a complex network of traders and
agents. By no means all animals pass through officially recognized markets,
although a combination of head poll taxes on cattle and the veterinary regu-
lations eventually forces most animals to pass through official control
points. The trade is financed almost entirely by a relatively small number of
wholesale merchants based at Omdurman. The animals walk from western Sudan to
Khartoum, a distance of up to 1,200 kilometers. During the dry season, this
journey taxes their strength, and weight losses and mortality are high. For
this reason, traders avoid moving the animals to market in the dry season,
which results in a marked seasonality of supply at the Khartoum end. Exports
from the Khartoum area are both in the form of chilled meat exported by air
and live animals exported by surface transport.
36.       The expansion of modern livestock production has been very slow.
There are a number of small commercial feedlots, poultry and dairy operations
near Khartoum, but the recent IFC financed Seleit project and a poultry
project are the principal fruit of the recent encouragement to foreign
investment in the livestock industry, although a number of other livestock
fattening, finishing and processing operations are under consideration. The
current marketed offtake is fairly low, sale of animals being constrained by
custom, a high incidence of disease, shortage of finance and a relatively
unresponsive marketing mechanism. One of the principal objectives of the
proposed project would be to ease the constraints currently limiting marketed
production. The principal constraint to increased sales to the markets is a
general absence of physical infrastructure such as efficient and reliable
transportation, markets, holding yards, transit yards etc. The Govern-
ment's strategy, with which we agree, is to remove these constraints in the



- 14 -
expectation that private traders would then be able to respond to market
opportunities and requirements more efficiently. The Government does not
intend, through this project, or otherwise, that the public sector (i.e. the
LMMC) should itself engage in livestock trading.
37.       The proposed project would establish or improve primary, secondary
and terminal markets which would be supervised by a network of field offices
to be set up by the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which was
recently established. Market operations would be gradually improved with a
view to a larger throughput, better sales opportunities, higher prices to the
producers, and faster movement of feeder stock. The two terminal markets in
the Khartoum area would serve both the urban consumer and the export market.
These terminal markets, and the export terminal at Port Sudan would be sup-
plied by four block trains, to be financed under the project, which would
provide a year round, regular service for moving animals to market, thus
reducing the seasonality of supply, making possible the movement of younger
animals and reducing the weight losises and mortalities which currently attend
trekking operations. Although road transport of livestock may have a role to
play when a good road system has been developed, for the foreseeable future
rail transport will predominate in Western Sudan. To facilitate movement of
livestock by rail, the project would finance establishment of 6 holding yards
to assemble animals for railing, 3 itransit yards to rest animals in transit, a
terminal yard and associated railwal sidings along the railway line. The
holding yards would also facilitate enforcement of quarantine measures. From
the terminal yard, animals would be moved to the Khartoum market, fattening
operations, abattoirs or live exporlt terminals. The project would support the
development of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation through the
provision of staff, equipment, vehicles and buildings for headquarters and
field offices. Since the LMMC stafiE lack marketing expertise, the project
would finance technical specialists for five of the six years in which the
project would be implemented, and a program of training of LMMC staff.
Organization, Management and Staff
38.       The establishment of LMMC represented Government's first attempt
to provide a single administrative unit with full responsibility for ensuring
that adequate facilities and policies exist for the efficient marketing of
livestock and meat in Sudan and for export from the country. Given its
wide-ranging responsibilities, the development of this new institution will
be a complicated and lengthy undertaking. LMMC's most important activity over
the next six years will be the implementation of the proposed project. As
part of this process, it will gradually take over responsibility for livestock
markets from the provincial authorities, beginning with those to be estab-
lished or improved under the project, will be responsible for establishing the
block train service for transporting livestock and for the issue of export
licenses. Provincial authorities will participate in the growth of revenues
from market operations, after their hand over to LMMC. LMMC's Marketing
Research Department will formulate and coordinate both domestic and export
market policies. LMMC is a purely service oriented institution which will not
trade livestock on its own account.



- 15 -
39.       A Director General, responsible to the Board of Directors, will
have immediate responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the LMMC.
The Director General has been appointed and will coordinate the recruitment
of all subordinate staff. Recruitment of these staff is well advanced.
40.       The railway equipment to be financed under the project would be
owned, operated and maintained by the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) (See
Report No. 1459-54 dated June 1977 for an analysis of SRC's operations and
expansion plans). SRC would in turn lease this equipment to LMMC under the
terms of a transport agreement which requires SRC to maintain and operate the
equipment in accordance with a schedule of services to be developed by LMMC.
LMMC would fix and collect the rates for the service, and pay SRC a rent which
would incorporate an incentive for efficient operation. LMMC would assemble,
load and transport the animals on behalf of traders. The transport agreement
between LMMC and SRC, which is acceptable to the Association, has already been
signed but would only become effective 18 months after the date of effective-
ness of the financing agreements for the project.
41.       It is essential to the success of the project that LMMC be able to
assure a free flow of animals from one part of the country to another and that
its operations are not impeded by taxation or price regulations. LMMC is
negotiating with each of the provincial authorities involved on these matters,
and signature of agreements with each provincial authority in respect of these
questions would be a condition of disbursement for the market infrastructure
component. (Schedule 1, Paragraph 3 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties amounting
to $8.2 million, is estimated at US$51.3 million, of which $25 million (58% of
the cost, net of taxes) will represent foreign exchange requirements. Physical
and price contingencies amount to US$11.8 million. The IDA credit would
finance all the foreign exchange costs, except $1.7 million for technical
assistance, and $1.9 million of local costs involved in the market infra-
structure component (see paragragraph 18 above). The UK would also finance
the technical assistance component, estimated to cost $3.1 million, on grant
terms. The Government would finance the balance of the cost, amounting to
$23.2 million, or $15 million net of taxes and duties (35% of the total net
cost). LMMC is not expected to contribute significantly to financing the
capital elements of the project (see paragraphs. 46 and 47 below). SRC would
earn a satisfactory rate of return on the incremental railway assets. SRC
would earn a satisfactory rate of return on the incremental railway assets.
The UK grant would be provided under the existing Technical Cooperation
agreement between the UK and the Sudan and arrangements for securing this
assistance would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
Procurement and Disbursements
43.       Procurement of items of equipment and materials financed by IDA
would take place predominantly under international competitive bidding.



- 16 -
Contracts of $50,000 or less and 'up, to $500,000 in the aggregate may be awarded
under LMMC's procedures, acceptable to the Association. Local suppliers of
equipment and materials would qualiEy for 15% domestic preference. Civil
works items, amounting to $3.9 million, predominantly housing, offices and
market facilities, would be procured under local competitive bidding pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory, except where remoteness of the sites make
acceptable bids unlikely, in which case force account construction would be
used. Railway installations would be constructed by SRC. Consultants would
be engaged to design and prepare contract documents, assist LMMC in receiving
and reviewing bids and supervise construction of LMMC headquarters.  SRC would
be responsible for procurement of the railway equipment.
44.       Disbursements would take place over six years.  The Association would
disburse 100% of the cost of direct:Ly imported items and various percentages
of locally purchased items, civil works and operating costs. Disbursements
for the market infrastructure componient of the project would be conditional
on LMMC concluding the agreements wiith the Provincial Authorities, referred to
at paragraph 41 above.
Accounts and Audits
45.       An appropriate system of accounts would be established for LMMC
by the Finance and Administration Division, under the guidance of an inter-
nationally recruited adviser. SRC would maintain special accounts showing
income and expenditure on project related activities. The accounts of both
LMMC and SRC would be audited by the Auditor General's office. Audited
accounts would be submitted to the Association within 9 months of the end of
each fiscal year.
Financial Objectives and Cost RecovEry
46.       The LMMC market fees and railway transport rates would be set to
ensure the full recovery of operating costs and a provision for capital re-
placement, based on amortization of buildings and installations over 20
years, and other items over shorter periods (Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement). Allowing for a conservative growth of traffic on LMMC's block
trains and advance payments to SRC for rentals under the lease agreement, LMMC
would accumulate a working capital d[eficit during the first four years of
operation of the livestock block trains. As a contribution to working capital,
the project would finance a part of operating costs for the first six years of
the project life. The rates for livestock carried on the block trains would
have to be about double the current rate for sheep and four times the current
rate for cattle charged by SRC. SRC's own rates for livestock will be modified
by June 1981 to eliminate existing subsidies. The higher rates are not expec-
ted to be a disincentive, provided the service is regular and reliable (see
para. 54 below). However, a sound and profitable market situation for the
livestock sector is, of course, critical to the development of the sector's
potential and this will require continuous attention by the Government to
ensure that exporting is sufficiently profitable to encourage its development.
LMMC's revenues are projected to derive almost equally from market operations



- 17 -
and transport operations. LMMC's consolidated operations would break even
over the project life, and would generate a substantial cash surplus over that
period.
47.       Under the transport agreement, SRC would receive income from a
mixture of a lease finance charge, a premium for satisfactory performance and
a contribution to general overhead such as track maintenance. This income
would cover all operating costs and amortization of debt and would yield an
addition to SRC's cash resources from the first year of operation of the block
trains. In order to assess the financial impact of the Project on SRC, the
financial internal rate of return was calculated by projecting SRC's operating
statements with and without the Project. SRC's financial rate of return for
the Project investments would be 17x. During the negotiations the Government
informed IDA of its intention to defer the collection of customs duties on
railway equipment acquired under the project.
48.       The consolidated cash flow of the Government and the two corporations
(SRC and LMMC) as a result of the project would be strongly positive. A
Government deficit representing Government's contribution to the Project, less
revenues, would be offset by substantial cash surpluses generated in the two
corporations. The consolidated cash flow would became positive by year 4 and
recover the initial deficit by year 9. The foreign exchange effect of the
Project would be positive from year 4 and would recover initial foreign
exchange costs by year 8. The annual incremental foreign exchange surplus at
full development would be nearly $5 million in 1978 constant prices.
Markets and Prices
49.       In its Six-Year Plan, Government has adopted an objective in terms
of export earnings from livestock and meat which implies much increased
exports.  In considering this objective the Government has been concerned
at the ability of the national herd to sustain a higher level of exports
and at the effect of exports on domestic prices. Off-take rates in Sudan
are relatively low and can be expected to rise without ill-effects on the
national herd. The leading commodity in the export market is currently
live sheep, which fetch premium prices. Expanded exports to exploit this
market will probably lead to higher domestic prices, and some additional
switching of consumers to beef. Domestic prices of beef are close to export
prices, and increased exports of beef are unlikely to lead to marked increases
in domestic beef prices. Increased exports of high quality meat would lead
to increased production of meat which is not of export quality. This would
help to stabilize prices of such meat in the domestic market and minimize the
impact on the low income consumer.
50.       In order to obtain the financial benefits of increased exports,
assurances have been received that measures likely to frustrate achievement of
these benefits, such as bans or price controls on exports of livestock or
meat, would be avoided (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
51.       The Project would represent an initial step in the long term dev-
elopment of Sudan's livestock industry, and help to relieve some of the
major constraints which prevent the expansion of national livestock produc-
tion. The main quantifiable benefits would be weight loss savings and mainte-
nance cost savings for livestock moving from the West to Khartoum; and an
increased number of animals transported from Khartoum to Port Sudan for export.
The overall rate of return of the Project over 22 years would be 15%.
52.       There would be substantial unquantifiable benefits.  The improved
markets are expected to increase the efficiency of private livestock trading
activities by making them more competitive. This should result in higher
prices to the producers. The block trains would ensure regular supplies of
meat at stable prices to the Khartoum Market, facilitate the marketing of
immatures to the new fattening enterprises, guarantee regular shipments to
export markets (thus allowing traders to enter into long term supply con-
tracts) and improve the efficiency of animal disease control through the
introduction of veterinary procedures at an early stage in the marketing
process. Finally, the establishment of LMMC would facilitate the development
of long-term national marketing policies which would give the private sector
the confidence and flexibility necessary to undertake substantial investment
in the livestock industry.
53.       The beneficiaries are likely to be numerous, and extend from the
nomadic livestock owners many of whom are among the poorest people in the
country to large scale corporations entering the fattening and export trade.
Producer prices are likely to rise, as indicated above, as a result of im-
proved marketing arrangements and better price information. Producer prices
are also likely to rise due to the reduced risk in the transport of livestock
to Khartoum resulting from the block trains, which is reflected currently in
the price offered to producers. Thus the large numbers of livestock owners in
Western Sudan are likely to experience firmer and higher prices for their
animals. The urban consumer is likely to benefit from more stable meat
prices, and firms entering the fattening and export trade are likely to
benefit from the assurance of a steady supply of livestock. The economy
generally would benefit substantially fErom the foreign exchange earnings to be
derived from the incremental exports.
54.       The principal project risk is associated with the operational
efficiency and capacity of SRC and the rate of acceptance by users. If a
regular and reliable train service does not result from the proposed investment,
traders will be reluctant to use the service.  The project return is sensitive
to the load factor achieved on the trains, which will be in part a reflection
of the demand for the service. The demand for LMMC's services is expected to
grow steadily provided SRC's efficiency is acceptable, and the new livestock
finishing enterprises are likely to be major customers of the block train
service. SRC is currently implementing, with Bank Group participation in the
financing, a major investment program designed to remove equipment and facility
constraints to higher efficiency. Additionally, the proposed project would



- 19 -
finance all equipment needed for the block train service. SRC would also sign
a contract with LMMC which would stipulate how the service would function and
the obligations of both parties. SRC would stand to gain financially under
the contract. In view of these factors, we consider the risk involved to be
acceptable, and necessary in the interest of the long term development of the
livestock industry in Sudan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and the LMMC and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Items of particular
interest to the Association are indicated at Annex III.
56.       A special condition of effectiveness is that the Government has 'made
the necessary arrangements for securing the ODM grant (Section 5.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
March 2, 1978






-  21-                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page 1 of 4 pages
SUDAN               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                ----------------------------------------------
SUDAN                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2505.8                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     315.0                       1960      197)   ESTIMATE           KENYA          EGYPT          MOROCCO***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    130.0*   160.0*    290.0*/a             140.0*     170.0*      290.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           11.2      14.0      15.9 /a             11.2        33.3        14.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0       6.0        s.o/a             19.0        33.0       33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       37.0       46.0      51.07o             113.0      1172.0       74.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         50.7      48.9       47.8               49.0        42.1        49.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          24.7      20.2       17.5               17.0        17.0        18.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       159.0        1. 132.0                    49-        116.0          ,.
LIFE EXPErTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      41.1       46.1       48.6               49.1        49.9       50.4
GROSS REPhODUCTION RATE                ..       3.4        3.4                3.4         3.0         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.3       2.2**      2.2**              3.1         2.6         2.4
URBAN                                  ..       5.5        2.2                6.3         3.6         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           8.6      11.8        4.6                9.9        42.1        32.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      47.0/a    45.0        45.0               48.4       44.0        46.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                      51.07a    52.0        52.0               48.0        52.0       51.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2:07'T    3:0        3.0                3.6         4.0        2.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0/a     0.9        0.9                1.1         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.575     1.5/a       *-                1.1/a       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        ..         ..               66.1      488.0        68.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..         3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3700.0    4500.0         .5 5100.0/b   8300.0/a b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         86.0      80.0         ..               90-07       53'0/  .b
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         .. .      ..                 ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20.9/C      ,,         ,.               20.2/C        ,        20./a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            50.1i7    49.2'/b      .     .          52.6/C        .        49,0a
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             5.07E     5.1T7       ..                3.97C        ..        4.07a
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.97C    14.5Tb       '-               1./Cc         *-       12.0 /a
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..                 ..
% OWNED BY F'IALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..         ..        ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPLLATION PER PHYSICIAN            27820.0/a 14200.0  10880.0               7830.0/d   1910.0/C  12650.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3030.07j d1740.0   1360.0/b             1470.067    1640.0o7.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           950.0/ae 930.0/c   960.0                770.0       460.0       660.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         81.0      72.0       88.0               98.0        106.0      102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0      63.0       60.4               71.0        66.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      24.0/d   23.0                 29.0        16.0        14.0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..                1.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       25.0      33.0       40.0               64.0        69.0        52.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0       7.0       11.0                9.0        33.0        13.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               13.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      3.0       1.4/e      3.0/C              2.0        18.0         2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  *-       15.0         *-              30.0          *-        21.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        2.5/d       ..                ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         -      360 d,f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)             ,. 0td,f
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIC'TY (%)                     ..         ..        ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          1.0         ..      80.0 /d             48.0      132.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0        2.0       2.07                9.0        4.0        15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            8.0         .       20.0                68.0      228.0       128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1        0.2       0.2                 0.5         1.0        0.2
-----------------------------___  -_ -__--- - ----------._------ ___--- __- __------ _  ---------- - ------------ _____-
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



2 2                                                   MNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Uslese otherisa sated, date for 1960 refor to any yer between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, aod for Most Recent Estimate bet.ees
1973 and 1975.
*  GNP per capita data are based on the World lak Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
D0 .ue to emigretian population growth rats is lper thea  the rate of natural incrse
000 Morocco has bass selected as en Objective country because of certain similarities (eise of population, lank of population pressure, importance of
agriculture, meber of Arab wrld, end Access to OPEC assistsnct), and has reached a stage of devaiopnent to which the Sodas night aspire in the
medium tern.
SUDAN        1960    /a  1962;    /b  Ratio of ppu.ltion uder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1963, Oedurm   a crbhe;    /d  Including
asistant nures;    /n  Govsrumnnt hospital establishents.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /b  1967-68;    /c  Government hospital establishments;
/d  1964-66;   /I  Seginning 1970, the duratiDn of general secoedary education vas reduced from 8 to 6 years;    If  UrbSh
only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  Including midives and asistant sureses;    /c  Reginning 1970, the duration of ge.eral
secondary education wee reduced from 8 to 6 years;    /d  1972.
KENYA        1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 And over to) labor force age 15-59 yearn;    lb  Labor force age 15-59 years;    /c  Urban
osiy;    /d  Registered, sot  11 practiring in the coutry.
EGYPT        1970    /a  1966;    /b  Relates to 12 to 64 years of age;    /c  Registered, not  11 practicing in the country.
MOROCCO      1970   /L  Consasptio  expenditure of households;    /b  Govermsont hospital establishments only;    /c  1964-66.
RIO, February 22, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCLI ITNDICATORS
Luod Area (tbou k.2)                                                                       Pouletion Per nureing prrsos - Poplhtion divided by musher of pr.ctictig
Total   Ttsl surfacc cr   co-prising land ares  nd intnd waters,                             mle and fale  graduate nurses,   cruised' or "certified" naes, end
ARric. - Most rec-nt estiate of *gricultur-l ar   used temporerily or parsia-               satuxary pernonsel with t-sining or naprience
seely for crope, p-sruros, macbrt f kitchen gardens or to lie feIlm.                    PoPultion er ho pit-s  bed - Popaistian divided by sisber of hospital beds
evailebla in public end private goere-l and speciulied hospicel end
NP oar  gpsiti (Us) - -GNP per capita estimates at currest mcrkht prices,                    rehebiliattion centers; e-cluds maurtig homes and set.bliebmsnte far
nalcutated by same conver- or m-thod an World Boak AtIes (1973-75 bsia);                   custodial and preventive te.
1960; 1970 ssd 1975 dta.                                                                Per cspita supply of calries  (7 of rouiremts) - Coaputed from energy
equivalent of net food eupplies  -veilble in country per capita per day;
Population and vita1 stetisti-r                                                              veihble supplies comprise dose.tic production , bporta les e-ports, sod
Ponplution (mid-veer million)   is of July firet:  if sot vailable,  ver-ge                  changes is stock; net ouppli.a e-c1ude asimel feed, seeds, quI ntities used
of twa end-year estietes; 1,160, 1970 acd 1975 data.                                      in food prares ing end losses in distribution; requiresnta wore eerie c
by FAO based an phyiiolgical needs for ou-ml sativity and hee1-     _.-
Populetion density - per 5q-ame   - Mid-y-at popultion per square kilte-r                    eripg enriromtental temperature, body omights, age and sea dietriburtons of
(100 hectares) of  otal area.                                                             popuetiou, and allowiog 10t for usate at hosehold level.
Popultion deseity - per  quuare be of sric. land - Cmptsd as eo   fo                       Per centr su yof protein (sr' pear dav) - Protein contest of par rspitu
agricultural land only.                                                                     et *upply of food par dy; set supply of fond is definad as sbone  require-
ments for .11 co-trries entablished by USDA Economic Research Services
Vird statl  tica                                                                             provide for a  iniE  allousoce of 60 grems of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per theu-and. evarue - Annsu   live births per thousnd of                   20 grem- of si- I aed pulse protoos, of which 10 gra    sho-ld be alie.l
mid-ye-r papuetis; ten-year aritheetic averags  nding is 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these etenderde are loer then thoer of 75 gr   of totel protein
and fino-y-e  average ending in 1975 for  ost recent estimate,                             and 23 grams of animal protein  s an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death r-ei  per thousand. averee - Annual deaths pr thoues.d of mid-Yar                in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year eritheatic averages ending in 1960 end 1970 sod five-               Per capita protein supply from sims- and pulse - Proteis eupply of food
year avsragesodioo in 1975 for moat receot etiat-                                          derived frsoasassin   end pulses in gra    per day.
Infant mortslitv rate (/the) - causal deaths of infast  -nder one ynar of  ge              Deth rate (/thr  ) sacs 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousasd in uSe group 1-4
per thousand live birtha.                                                                  years, to children in thio age grScr; suggested as as imdicator of
Life aopectas ac  birth (yv) -   r-rag.  mushbr of yasr. of life re   ining  t               selnutrilton.
birth; uu-lly five-year aerages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dsvslep-
fog countries.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Education
Gross reProdootife  rate -  erage r  sober of liv  daughters a comas will bear            adjusted erelmnt ratio - primary echool - Eullasst of sIc ages on per-
is her normal reproductive period if as. enperiasces present age-specific                  cestage of primary school-age popultion; includes childrer, egod 6-11 yer
fertility rates; usIly five-year varegs ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                      but adjoted fur different lengths of priary education; fc- nc trines  uth
for developing  ountries.                                                                  universal education, earollmnt maY exceed 100% sine some. puplh are bela1
popolation gran   rate  ("I -  total - Compound anuaol growth rstee of  id-year              or sbone the official school  ge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75                                              Adjusted eneolnt retio - second-ry school - Computed as sbove; secondary
Pouhuetion erowth rats (%) - urban - Computed lik  grosth rats of teml                       education requires at leat four years of approad primary intructio;
population; different definition  of urban area my affect comparability of                 provides general, vocational or teher training isstruotiena for pupils
data among anatries                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; -ere-spondsna ers are generally secluded.
Urb-n poeplutimn CT of total) - Ratio of urbhn to tetal population; differant              Yar of sobalina erovided (firt and second level) - Total years of
defisitiona of urban areas my effect comparbility of data among countries.                 scheelag; at secondary level, nodotianal inatr-ctios may be partially or
remplaemly ealudad.
eerrnue(Percent) - Children (0-14 years), worbing-as~ (15-A4 yean)                 Vonatiomlerlma C   fscnae  - Oscurionl i-seitutians include
adrtrd(65 yer   n   vr   sprcentegee Of sin7-ya  mp.Isslaie.                         technical, Indusra   eohrpnem    hc   prt  needn;   ra
Age depedency ratio  - Rat o of popul do under 15 and 65 and er to those                     de                         o o  sh opert iod spedotry ir
cf ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult lItrcraeC)-Ltrtadls(beoradndri)anp-
Ecrnomic desandesny retio  - Satin of popultion  -nder 15 and 65 sod aer to                  restg                                g of tot l adult pepo ltion agd 11 years end aver.
the labr forc  is ag  groupof I5-64 yeao.
family plasefag - ancestors icronalarfve. thou) - Cuelative nuaber of acCeptOr             Housing
of biro-norrol denitces under .us Pices of sation-l faily ploning progrn                Per--- Po r room  (urbhnl - doerage nomber of person-  per roo  in Ioccpied
sicn  i..ePtton.                                                                          convetiona  d.sltaga Is urbaearnss; dwellings n  lode non-pereanet
ronio cla-io-use C    f aridwoe) - Prcentge  Of married wome  Of                             etructuree and  socupId parts.
chpild-beans8  age (l5-4i years) who use birth-ontrol devices to all mrried              ocoueled due llong  with    ei   water       --     pisd  co       n   d li-ng
oomen ioi aeme age group.                                   Sn urban end rural areas w thot nsdee  outside piped serer facilIties
REPlonwat as peroentege of a11 oncopiad dwelling.e
T,toioneoate'ccesyto clsenricrny ,                                                                                  ef-allidwsllldsi   C--Cnetiona. l duellioga with
Total labor torus (thousnd) - fOnomicelly active prson, including acme                            tnictyiniving quarters as percent  f tete l dwellings i rtd
forces and onamplayed but eclding h-eueivee, students, etc.; definitions                   e       c                                             dweling in urbar ead
is canions coustries are not compar.ble.                                                 Rural     linsa onnected to  elscrinity (Ta
Labor force in - uecultare (2) - Agricultural abor force (Sn forning, fereatry,                     tg                                  ()   Ctputd d n   ob         for drlgl
hunting and fihing) as percentage of total Sber force.
nnasploynd (T7 f labor force) - Sneplayed are usually defined as persona she                Connn e tion
re ble cod wii. no atke.   a job, ot of d    Jeb on a gpvie  day, rceained out          Radio reciv      (par thou ear) - All type of receivers for radio broadcasts
of Ja o   and aesking wobre k f- or a epcofid mini.  Period soet enceding oms               to general public pee thouand of popultion;  -eudee olice_eed receivers
wek; may ot be   cmparable  btween ceontries due rt  different defimitiona                 .n countries  nd in years  hen  rgistration of rdi  sets was in effsct;
f u e mplyed     d   source   Of  d ate ,    e.g.,  emplo_t  Office inaiaui s, c .5 piL     data  for   recent  Y-ars    -y     sot  be   comp arable    sinrs   mast  countries    bolished
survYs, rompo1eerY OnePloYnent insurane.                                                    licese lag.
Pasenercan fea tho eo) -Ps..s.nger care comprise mat,,cror   eRn
Innasdisrthuron  -Percentage of Prcv-r mIsas (both io cesh end kind)                    leste   ih   esn;esuseablne,hassedatry
received by richest 5I, richest 20T, poo'ret 201b, etd peoree  40% Of bhnd-                 Vehicle ds.    (i                     bilan    , ho.r      d    it rY
hlectricit    (b sb/_r s   c ue)    -   Annu al  con aumption     of    industril ,    e eroia l
pehicad privtet ecticity in kilowa tt hours pee napita,geral
Dirtrihuion of lnd ownership-  Percentages of land onaed by we-lthiest 10%                    baed on production data, without allan     feer uae  in grid  hot ally-
aed poereso 15% of land owners.                                     ~~~~~Lag f or imports and aspectsofsontiy
Health and Nutrition                                                                       PIiwrint (h /vt e   r ace) - Per cepita   Pl cnan   ption in bilegem
Popu-etion ant-physician - Popultion divided by snuber of practicing                        "t=          fct   plu                            t orrof n   print
physicians qualified from a medical schol at univer-ity leal.



-23-                                ANND  I
Pase 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197:5                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWh  (N. constant prices)
US$ Mln.        f                         1970-75            1965 -70            1972
GNP at Market Prices           3,708.4       100.0                         4.5
Gross Domestic Investment        663.0        17.9                        11.4
Gross National Saving            265.0         7.1                         4.9
Current Account Balance        -417.0         11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           436.5         11.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           790.0         21.3
OTMPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Addedl/                  Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
USHln.    _j                    min.                             MA 3f  S   
Agriculture                    1,297.7      41.3
Industry                         298.5       9.5
Services                       1,545.9      49.2
Unallocated
Total/Average
3:4.1    10..                               100.                    '-0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Oovernment
t U$Mln-)        % of G    D P       Z t (Ex4l                    %O
197           197        196 -7                   1974/5  FY 15975      ffq1R70r 7-2
Current Receipts                       ..            ..           ..                   720.6        19.1          23.3
Current Expenditure                    ..            *-           *-                   728.6        19.3          22.4
Current Surplus                                     -                                    8,0 0-20
Capital Expenditures 3/                                                                267.3         7.1           4.3
External Assistance (net)                                                              285.7         7.6           1.1
MONE!  CREDIT and PFtICES                 FY1970        FY1 71       FY1972      MFL973        FY1974       FY19#5   FY1976
j3llion       outstanding end period}
Honey and Quasi Money                       123.1         130.6       146.2        190.9         245.2       292.4    368.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                 90.1         112.2       139.6        152.6         196.5       329.4    431.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                60.5          73.1        70.5         92.8         120.3       155.2    216.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            21.1          20.8        18.7         21.9          22.2        20.1
General Price Index (1970,- 100)4/          106_1         108.2       l20.9        141.6 _       7__ l _8 _  221.4    225.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                           ..            1.4        11.7         17.1          26.1        24.0       1.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                 43.9          24.5        24.4          9.3          28.8        67.6      31.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                -1.0          20.8        -3.6         31.6          29.6        29.0      39.5
NOTE: AUl conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
11 Total labor force; wuneployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedo consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget Oincludes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
47 Refers to low salaried cost of living index.        -
(Less than Lad 500 per annum).                  .. not available
not applicable
EACPIB
,February 22, 1978



- 21 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EBLU  OF PADW            U      AS          AND DT
(amote in Milmsa of LB. dollar  t ar t price)
Avg. Annual
Actual                          Estimated                                         oecte                            Growth Rate
1M2          1974         1975          1976                        12           179          -980          18           1973-1980
su061 BaIANCE OF PAYNMDTS
EVorts (in.l NFS)                       447.5        394.4        436.5         581.7          615.6         703.9        819.7        936.1       1848.7             9.6%
DPoprts (inelNFS)                       399.0        603.4        790.0         867.7          976.9        1113.8       1261.6       1424.5       2587.2            17.2%
R     esource BeigXe-l)                -9-2 6       -44.8           =             =              =        -48                 8.       4T         -738.5
Intr-est (net)                         -12.5        -20.8         -30.2         -57.4          -70.3        -82.0        -94.0       -106.9       -195.7            30.8%
Other Factor Payments                   -17.9        -21.0        -27.6         -15.0          -20.0        -20.0        -25.0        -25.0         -25.0            4.3%
Direct Inveytw ent Income                -8.2         -8.0        -12.1         -20.0          -20.0        -22.0         -22.0        -22.0        -25.0            13.1%
'Workers' Rerittance                      -            -             -            30.0           34.1         38.7         43.9         49.9         94.5
Current Transfers (not)                   6.2          0.4          6.1          12.0            12.0         12.0         12.0         15.0         20.0            11.7%
BaIance on Cwr4retAounts                 16.1       -257.7       -417.0        -336.4         -425.5         43.31       -526.9       -577.5        =
- ~~~~~~--                                      -                                        a"-
Private Direct Investrant                  -           4.9         10.0           30.0           34.3         39.2         44.8         51.2         99.9            34.1%
official Capital Grants                  10.0          25.1         10.0          30.0           60.0         84.0         70.0         70.0         88.0            27.51
public M9,61 loans6                                                                                                                    544          725295
Disbursements                          68.8        314.2        160.3         332.9          402.5        458.6         505.6        544.4         729.5          29.5%
-Renavments                            -39.8        -37.9        -52.1         -64.2         -114.7        -142.4       -139.1       -135.4       -101.2            15.5%
Net         r26           108.2         268.8          17fT          316.2        366.5        409.0        628.3           41.1%
Other M6T loans
Discbursements                           -            -            -              -              -            -            -            -            -
-_apsients 
Niet Disbursemtents
Capital Transactions n.e.i.             -32.6         -8.9        225.8          50.0            52.5         55.1         57.9         60.8         77.6
Charge in Net Reserves  (--increase)  -22.5          -39.7          63.0         -42.3           -9.1        -11.0        -.3          -13.6        -24.2
=              -            -             -               -                ~                       Actual                  Estimated
MANT AND LOAN COMMITMFNTS                                                                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE              1973      1974      1975          1976
Official Grants & Grant-like             34.0         35.0           -            30.0         Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   377.0    723.0    941.7              1259.5
Public MiLT Loans                                                                                Interest On Public Debt          14.8      20.6      40.8           55.4
nm                           ~      ~     ~       ~~~~-  -  -        20.0            Repaysects on Public Debt       39.8      37.9      32.1           64.1
IDA                                    46.0         35.0         60.0           13.0           Tteoa  Public DebL Service      54.6      79.1      92.9          1D9g.5
Other                                     -            -            -             ,,           Other Debt Service (net)           -         -         -              -
Other Multilateral                        -         81.0         26.0           80.0           Total Debt Service (net)         54.6     79.1       92.9          119.5
Governments                            68.0        170.0        130.0           91.0
Suppliers                               50.0         54.0         63.0                       Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Financitl Institutions                 49.0        352.0         61.0
Bonds                                                                                          Public Debt Service             12.2       22.0     21.3            20.5
Public Loasm n.e.i.                                                                            Total Debt Service                 -         -         -
Total Public MPLT Ioans       6         92. 0     361.0                                          TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.          14.0      25.7      24.1           24.0
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dc. 31.1975                         Average Terms of Public Debt
ETENAL DS3DT M                                OlF                P*ro t
IpRD                                                             7.9                             Int. as % Prior Year D06D         4.5       5.4       5.6            5.9
IDA                                   33.8                        3.6                            Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D  12.1          10.1       7.2            6.8
Other Multilateral                     51.3                       5.5
Goverrments                          394.2                       41.9                          IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
suppliers                             81.0                        8.6                             " as % Public Debt 06D          19.6      11.2       7.8            5.6
Finaneial Istitutions                 307.3                      32.7                               as 2 Public Debt Service    20.7        19.8      12.6             9.4
Bndst
Public Debts n.e.i                       -                                                      IDA Debt Out. & Dioboreed
Total Public XiLT Debt               94I.7                      100.0                             ' as 7 Public Debt O&D           7.8       2.5       3.4             3.0
as 7. Public Debt 0&D 0.5   0.           3.5       0.3            0.3
Other MU3T Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. ony3)
not applicable                                       a  staff estimate
not available                                        -  nil or negligible
...  not available separately                            --  less than half thie
but included in total                                   smallest unit shcown                                                                            BACKE
February 22, 1978



-25                         ANNEX II
Page 1
A       _STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of January 31, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellation)
Credit No.       Year   Borrower   Purpose                    Bank   IDA      Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed.                    127.2   12,4
Credit 122       1968   Sudan        Education I                       8.5        1.5
Credit 311       1972   Sudan        Mechanized Farming II            11.3        6.2
Credit 331       1972   Sudan        Highway I                         7.0        1.0
Credit 364       1973   Sudan        Rahad Irrigation                 42.0        9.5
Credit 364-2    1975   Sudan         Rahad (Supplement)               20.0       20.0
Credit 447       1973   Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan I        4.0        0.4
Credit 457       1974   Sudan        Railways III                     24.0        7.4
Credit 476       1974   Sudan        Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project                   10.7 2/    6.1
Credit 547       1975   Sudan        Education II                     10.0        9.6
Credit 564       1975   Sudan        Power II                         23.0       10.3
Credit 589       1975   Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan II    7.0           4.5
Credit 614       1976   Sudan        Technical Assistance              4.0        3.9
Credit 643       1976   Sudan)                                         9.0        9.0
Loan 1287T       1976   Sudan)       Domestic Aviation        20.0    -          20.0
Credit 718 3/   1977   Sudan         Savannah Development             17.0       17.0
Credit 727 3/   1977   Sudan)                                          8.0        8.0
Loan 1467T 3/   1977   Sudan)        Railway IV               12.0    -          12.0
Total                                                    159.2  217.9      146.4
of which repaid                                        67.6    3.9
Total now outstanding                                     91.6  214.0
Amount sold                      5.8
of which repaid               5.8                        -          2/
Total held by Bank and IDA-I                             91.6  214.0
Total Undisbursed                                         32.0  114.4      146.4
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes grant participation by Norway $5.35 million, of,which
$2.4 million is undisbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.



-26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Janlary 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                       Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year               Obligor                 Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and
1972      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles    1.87   0.34    2.21
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                           8.71   1.27    9.98
1977      Seleit Livestock                              11.16   1.48   12.64
Total gross commitments                  21.74   3.10   24.84
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     4.74   0.07    4.81
Total commitments now held by IFC        17.00   3.03   20.03
Total undisbursed                        10.38   1.59   11.97
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and fifteen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays were caused by belated appointment of consultant architects, dif-
ficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses in
management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more! satisfactorily although supply
shortages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management.  Cost overruns have! been met by reducing the scope of
the project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view
to ensuring that the project is completed by the new closing date.
1/   These notes are designed to informi the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be retad in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975 Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has been
completed.  Tendering is now under way and costs for some components are prov-
ing to be high.  Implementation of the construction program as expected is
proving to be difficult due to the widely scattered locations, but various
expedients are being tried.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project  US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24: 1973,
Closing Date   December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1,038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road con-
struction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on road
improvements and, in particular, construction of a training center are still
behind schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized
farming have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily. A recent
appraisal of the Mechanized Farming Corporation has revealed some weaknesses
which are being addressed in the context of a third project.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 20,
and           1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364a           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of
agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of
about 14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary in-
frastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred
and an increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4
by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5
million in the foreign exchange cost is being financed by the Kuwait Fund
($39 million), the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund
($14.5 million). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the
project, totalling $80 million. Although work got off to a slow start in
1974, there was good progress in earth-moving design work and procurement
of equipment in 1975. Since October 1975 implementation has been proceeding
energetically and the settlement and agricultural programs are proceeding on
the revised schedule. Diversion of the first water occurred in July 1977 to
irrigate 60,000 feddans, slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
uS 10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to
farmers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for
nutrition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and estab-
lishing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit
and technical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included.
Provision of staff housing and recruitment of staff took some time, but
has now been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials
and seed multiplication and cotton planting are under way. Coffee planting
is ahead of schedule. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed
largely by the Federal Republic of Germany, is under way, but the dairy and
livestock marketing components have encountered problems. A project review
mission took place in March 1977 and agreement has been reached on a few
modifications to reflect the difficulties encountered and in view of the fact
that the Region is now moving beyoncl the rehabilitation stage. Disbursements
are expected to be completed shortly behind schedule. The Government of
Norway has taken a participation in this credit amounting to US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Proiect; US$17-0 Million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; not yet effective;
Closing Date   June 30, 1984
The project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, will finance a
comprehensive agricultural development program in South Darfur Province,
including crop and livestock development, improved water maintenance, project
related agricultural research and creation of a Western Savannah Development
Corporation. Project implementation is just about to begin.



-29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,    .
1972; Effective Date: December 29. 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also inclded were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, excepCt for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended.  Detailed engineering is underway on 550 km of roads shown to be
feasible in the feasibility studies. Financing for these roads is under
consideration by IDA and other financial institutions.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complimentary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port develop-
ment and civil aviation. Supply of much of the equipment financed under
the credit is approaching completion and disbursements are now expected to
be rapid.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railways Project; US$12 Million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8 Million Credit of July 8, 1977; not yet effective;
Credit No. 727   Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project comprises Sudan Railways' investment requirements during
the first three years (1977/78-1979/80) of the Government's Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan. It includes new workshops, sleeper and rail renewal, completion
of a radio communications network, purchase of 10 locomotives and 400 wagons
and locomotive spare parts, completion of a training school and technical
assistance. Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Financing to be provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi
Fund, and the European Development Fund is a condition of effectiveness and,
apart from the FED grant, has been confirmed.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and             1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal and
other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain tech-
nical services. Design work has been completed and tendering is in progress.



-30                         ANNEX II
Page 6
Tendering was delayed by different procurement regulations of the financing
agencies (IBRD, IDA, FED and Saudi Fund).  A problem has been encountered
in introducing new accounting procedures, but we expect to overcome this.
Credit No. 447    First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subproj-
ects exceeding US$3.8 million by early, 1975. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in mid-1978.  A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board in
November 1975.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development fina.-
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized indus-
tries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait Fund and
the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978.
Credit No. 546   Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit of the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and dis-
tribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and ser-
vices. Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the
project is proceeding generally on schedule although inadequate bids for the
civil works at Roseires delayed implementation of that component. Contracts
have been awarded for most of the main components and these indicate that
there is likely to be a 25% cost overrun.  The Government is seeking addi-
tional foreign exchange to meet these costs. A new management structure
is showing some promise, and good progress has been made in improving the
financial operations.  The various studies financed under the project are
either in progress or nearing completion.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation unit has been established and in its
first three meetings, the Project Revi,ew Committee authorized eight studies
for financing under the project. Prog:ress achieved has been good.



- 31 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
LtIVE f;!ttWRMETINM gR JECT-
S*peinfF+XP#^c   taaSfeet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Thirty months
(b) Preparation by: Sudan Government; FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program; and RMEA
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:  January 1974
(d)  First Bank Mission:  January 1974
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  February 1977
(f)  Negotiations:  January 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1978
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.   Special Conditions
Under the Credit Agreement, disbursements on the market
infrastructure component will be conditional on all provinces
directly affected by the project concluding a contract with LMMC
which would provide that the provincial authorities would not
exercise their power to set livestock prices or to place re-
strictions on the movement of trade stock out of a province.
(Paragraphs 41 and 44).
Under the Credit Agreement, the Government would under-
take that it would avoid imposition of export bans or price controls
or such other measures as would frustrate the export objective.
(Paragraph 50).
Under the Project Agreement, LMMC should set market fees
and railway transport rates sufficient to ensure full recovery of
operating costs and a provision for capital replacement.
(Paragraph 46).



-32 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
Under the Credit Agreement, additional conditions of
effectiveness are the execution, delivery and ratification of the
Project Agreement on behalf of LMHC; evidence that the Borrower
has made the necessary arrangements for securing the ODM grant;
and the execution, delivery and ratification of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and SRC (paragraphs 42 and
56).



rm~~~~~~~4 
00.N.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z-
M  >~~~~~~                                                  i~o Tr                                 
m                   Nii 
L ~   ~                                                                              >                        i
p  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    Qfl  ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  - -- - -- ----- -
a;>                                                 -V"J
oll                                                             R~~~~Z 
A          K~~~~~~~~~~~~Foo ~ 
DO~~~~~~C
ITL      R~~~~
m                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
L96ZL CdqI



