CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 782 SU
Project Agreement
(Livestock Marketing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT MARKETING CORPORATION
Dated June 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 782 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT MARKETING CORPORATION (hereinafter called
LMMC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LMMC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to LMMC on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS LMMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LMMC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, except for Part C
thereof, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, marketing and livestock
practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist LMMC in the implementation
of the Project, LMMC shall employ, not later than December 31,
1978, the following experts whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association, namely, a livestock and
meat marketing expert, a livestock and meat marketing economist,
a livestock transport expert, two regional livestock marketing
experts and an expert on finance and administration.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. In order to assist LMMC in the preparation of
the plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and the
supervision of the construction of, the headquarter building to
be constructed under Part B (1) of the Project, LMMC shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) LMMC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by LMMC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, LMMC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) LMMC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) LMMC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose


﻿-3-
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable
the Associatinn's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so
made available to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between LMMC and
the Association, LMMC shall furnish to the Association a report
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by LMMC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(d) LMMC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of LMMC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) LMMC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) LMMC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by LMMC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) LMMC shall provide the Association, during
the Project implementation period and thereafter for the next
five years, with semi-annual reports on the execution by LMMC
and SRC of their mutual obligations under the Transport Agreement.
(b) Before effecting any substantial amendments to tie
Transport Agreement, LMMC shall consult with the Association on
the financial and technical appropriateness of such amendments.


﻿Section 2.09. (a) LMMC undertakes: (i) to complete, not
later than June 30, 1979, the selection of the exact sites for the
railway holding yards, the railway transit yards and the livestock
markets, specified in Parts A and D (1) and (2) of Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, to take, not later than the
same date, all such action to acquire land and rights in respect
of land as shall be necessary to free LMMC's operation on said
sites from any legal claims; and (ii) to conclude with the Provin-
cial Authorities the agreements referred to in paragraph (3) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LMMC
Section 3.01. LMMC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry out its operation under experienced and competent management
and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, marketing
and livestock practices.
Section 3.02. LMMC shall operate and maintain its equipment
and property and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering standards.
Section 3.03. LMMC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LMMC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. LMMC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified


﻿- 5 -
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said audito:s, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of LMMC and the
audit the,reof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
LMMC shall take, from time to time, all such measures (including
but not limited to adjustments of its rates) as shall be required
to provide LMMC each fiscal year with revenues sufficient to
cover: (i) all operating expenses of LMMC, including without
limitation employment compensation, administrative and overhead
costs, payments to the Provincial Authorities under Section 3.07
(i) of the Development Credit Agreement, adequate maintenance
costs, interest and other charges on debt, adequate provision for
taxes, if any, and depreciation; (ii) the aggregate amount of
amortization on debt in excess of depreciation; (iii) an adequate
amount of working capital; and (iv) reserves adequate to meet
contingencies.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, LMMC shall not incur any debt unless LMMC's net revenues
from its operations for the fiscal year next preceding such
incurrence or for a later twelve--.onth period ending immediately
prior to such incurrence, whichever revenues are the greater,
shall at least be equal to the greatest debt service requirement
(including the debt to be incurred) for any succeding fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section and Section 4.03
of this Agreement:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or guarantee agreement providing for
such debt;
(iii) "net revenues from its operations" means gross
revenues of LMMC from all sources, adjusted to


﻿-6 -
take account of rates in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though such rates were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and administrative expenses, includ-
ing provision for taxes, if any, but before provi-
sion for depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by LMMC for the
purpose of servicing such debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of LMMC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
LMMC of this event.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For LMMC:
Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation
P.O. Box 1499
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
LIMACO


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of LMMC may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board of LMMC or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. LMMC shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the persons who will, on behalf of LMMC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by LMMC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT MARKETING CORPORATION
By /s/ Omer Salih Eissa
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
including the pertinent provisions of the General Introduction
thereto, on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition
to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, LMMC shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. LMMC shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract and $500,000
in the aggregate, may be awarded in accordance with the applicable
procedures of LMMC acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
may be carried out, at the option of LMMC: (i) by the Ministry of
Construction and Public Works of the Borrower, in accordance with
the applicable governmental procedures; or (ii) under contracts
awarded through local competitive bidding under procedures accept-
able to the Association; or (iii) under contracts negotiated
pursuant to arrangements acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 10 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cDst to the Borrower of inland freight,
including the cost of insu' rance, if any, and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sudan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of LMMC and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Sudan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this


﻿- 11 -
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards and
Final Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, LMMC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, LMMC shall,
before an award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furni-h to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detaile, report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
receive,,, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform LMMC and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be ftrnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, LMMC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform LMMC and the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


