CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 782 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Marketing Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 782 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1978, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Livestock and
Meat Marketing Corporation of the Borrower (hereinafter called
LMMC), a public corporation of the Borrower established and
operating under the Establishment Order of May 12, 1977 of the
Borrower (hereinafter called LMMC's Establishment Order) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to LMMC, part of the proceeds of the
Credit as a capital contribution;
(C) the Borrower intends to make arrangements with the
Ministry of Overseas Development of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter called ODM) to obtain
a grant (hereinafter called the ODM Grant) for financing the
services required under Part E of the Project and the employment
of experts for LMMC under the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
LMMC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and LMMC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "SRC" means the Sudan Railways Corporation, a public
corporation established and operating under the Borrower's Law
No. 26 of 1973;
(c) "Transport Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between LMMC and SRC on March 3, 1978;
(d) "Provincial Authorities" means all and any of the local
councils established and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 64
of 1971, as amended, on the People's Local Government;
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepar-
ation advance provided by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated May 12, 1977 and June 21, 1977
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SRC pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(g) "Sudanese Pounds" and "LSd" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of tLe Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1988, and ending March 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. For the purposes of taking any action under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions, the Borrrower is represented by: (i)
the Chairman of the Board of LMMC and such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, for all actions except those
required or permitted under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) the Chairman of the Board of SRC and such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, for
all actions required or permitted under said Category.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause LMMC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds (including adequate working
capital for LMMC), facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable LMMC to perform such obli-
gations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit,
except for those allocated under Category (1) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, available to LMMC as a capital contribution.
Section 3.02. For the implementation of Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall relend to SRC the equivalent of
$9,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit, or such other
amount as shall be allocated from time to time to Part C of
the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the
Association pursuant to which SRC shall, inter alia: (i) repay the
equivalent in terms of Sudanese Pounds of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent (such equivalent to be determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawals of the proceeds from the Credit
Account) in no more than 15 equal or approximately equal annual
installments after a grace period of five years; (ii) pay interest
at the rate of 8% per annum on the principal amount of the subsi-
diary loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time; and (iii)
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition and transportation


﻿- 5 -
thereof to the place of delivery, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SRC to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall enable LMMC: (i) to employ
such competent supervisory, management and administrative staff as
shall be necessary to carry out its activities under the Project;
and (ii) to provide said staff with salaries at such levels as
shall be competitive with the levels prevalent at public corpora-
tions operating on a commercial basis.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all the governmental
and administrative action necessary: (i) to assist LMMC in reach-
ing the agreements, referred to in paragraph (3) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, with the Provincial Authorities; and (ii) to
enable LMMC to comply with the provisions of Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that from the
date on which the Transport Agreement shall become effective
onwards, LMMC shall be authorized, with the approval of the
Borrower's concerned authorities: (i) to set and collect for its
own account the rates due on the transport of livestock on the
trains which are exclusively reserved for LMMC under the Transport
Agreement; and (ii) to review said rates as and when needed.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SRC to make gradual adjustments
in the rates for livestock transport so that such rates shall
reach, not later than June 30, 1981, and shall thereafter be
maintained at, levels corresponding to those charged by LMMC on
the basis of the full actual costs of such transport.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association recognize that
a major objective of the Project is to assist in expanding the
export of meat and livestock in order to increase the foreign
exchange earnings of Sudan. To this end, the Borrower undertakes:
(i) to take all such measures as shall encourage such export; and
(ii) to avoid taking any measures which would adversely affect
such export; such as the imposition of bans, for other than
sanitary reasons, quotas, or fees, taxes and duties at such levels
as shall in effect prohibit or substantially curtail such export.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause LMMC: (i) to compen-
sate the Provincial Authorities for any reduction in their


﻿-6-
revenues as a result of the transfer of jurisdiction over live-
stock markets located in their provinces to LMMC; and (ii) to make
arrangements with each of such Authorities for sharing the future
profits accruing from the operation of said markets.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that LMMC will
continue to be empowered to issue the livestock export permits
and licenses and to collect, for its own account, the fees due
thereon.
Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause SRC to follow, for the purchase
of goods under Part C of the Project, the procedures specified
in paragraph A, B.1, C and D of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SRC to furnish to the Associa-
tion promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part C of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause SRC: (i) to use
the transport equipment procured under Part C of the Project
exclusively for the purposes specified in the Transport Agreement;
and (ii) not to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of such equipment except in the normal course of its business and
with the prior agreement of the Association and LMMC.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause SRC: (i) to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of Part C of the Project
and to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in Part C of the Project;
(ii) to enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites, if any, included under Part
C of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the
expenditures of the proceeds of the Cr.dit and the goods financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause SRC: (i) to duly
perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿- 7 -
and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not to
take any action which would have the effect of abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or amending any of its
provisions in a manner which would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement or with the objec-
tives of the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall cause SRC to maintain
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained appropriate accounting practices SRC's revenues
and expenses resulting from all operations under the Transport
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SRC to: (i) have the accounts
referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
each such year, the report of such audits by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and the audits thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.14. The Borrower undertakes: (i) to examine
periodically the execution by LMMC and SRC of their mutual obli-
gations under the Transport Agreement; (ii) to cause LMMC and SRC
to cooperate fully in the implementation of their obligations
under said Agreement and in settling their disputes in respect
to any operational problem; (iii) to report promptly to the
Association on any major difficulties in the implementation of
said Agreement; and (iv) to prevent any action for terminating
said Agreement or substantially amending it, for other than
the reasons specified in it, without the prior approval of the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 8 -
(a) LMMC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of LMMC under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that LMMC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) LMMC's Establishment Order shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of LMMC to carry out
the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall .have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of LMMC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) LMMC shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
LMMC or by others whereby any of its assets shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
the right of the Borrower to utilize the ODM
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the arrangements made by the Borrower and
ODM.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such arrangements, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 4.02 For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-9-
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower and LMMC; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions: (a) the execution and delivery of the Project
Agreement on behalf of LMMC have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; (b) the
Borrower has made the necessary arrangements for securing the
ODM Grant; and (c) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and SRC, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deli-
vered on behalf of, LMMC, and is legally binding upon LMMC in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 14, 1978 is hereby   speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04, 3.10 and the provisions of Section 4.02, of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of National Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
Sudan
Cable address:                      Telex:
EIMAR                               324
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By Is/ Omer Salih Eissa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the. Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Livestock transport            9,500,000      100% of foreign
(locomotives, wagons                        expenditures
and vans)
(2) Transport Infrastructure
(a) Construction              2,000,000
material and
equipment
(1) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(2) purchased                          45%
locally
(b) Civil Works                 600,000     50%
(3) Market Infrastructure
(a) Construction              1,500,000
material and
equipment
(1) directly                           100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(2) purchased                          50%
locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b)  Civil works                300,000       50%
(c) Operating costs           1,900,000       50%
(excluding
salaries)
(4) Vehicles and equip-            2,000,000
ment for LMMC
(1) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                             expenditures
(2) purchased                            60%
locally
(5) Water supply                   1,000,000
(a) Equipment
(1) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                             expenditures
(2) purchased                            50%
locally
(b) Civil works                 300,000       50%
(6) LMMC Headquarters
(a) Field livestock             300,000       100% of foreign
and meat market-                         expenditures
ing expert
(b) Buildings                 1,500,000       50%
(c) Operating costs             600,000       60%
(7) Refunding of Project             350,000
preparation facility
(8) Unallocated                    3,150,000
TOTAL         25,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Category (3) of this Schedule shall
be made only after LMMC shall have concluded agreements with all
the Provincial Authorities under whose jurisdiction the markets
specified in Part A of the Project are located, providing, inter
alia, for (A) the obligation of such Authorities, within their
respective jurisdictions, not to impose, without the agreement of
LMMC, livestock or meat prices, or restrict, for other than
sanitary or safety reasons, the trade movement of livestock; (B)
not to impose local taxes or similar duties within said markets or
LMMC's railway holding yards, or use any of said markets and
holding yards as centers for tax collection; and (C) the time-
schedule for transferring administrative and management juris-
diction over said markets to LMMC and the methods of allocating
the profits derived from operating said markets between LMMC and
each one of such Provincial Authorities pursuant to Section 3.07
of this Agreement.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Czedit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent


﻿- 14 -
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's objective is to assist in increasing the
Borrower's national livestock production and export through the
development of an efficient livestock marketing system.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Livestock markets
The markets to be established and improved under the Project
are located in the Provinces of Khartoum, Gezira, White Nile,
Northern Kordofan, Southern Kordofan, Northern Darfur, Southern
Darfur and Bahr El-Ghazal. Works under the Project comprise:
1.   The establishment of 30 primary livestock markets
(this number includes some markets to be rehabilitated under the
Project).
2.   The establishment or reconstruction of 11 secondary
livestock markets.
3.   The establishment of 2 terminal livestock markets in
Khartoum one located west of the White Nile and the other at
Soba.
Part B:   Buildings, facilities and equipment
1.   The construction of a headquarter building and provin-
cial field offices and houses for LMMC's staff.
2.   The provision and installation of communication facil-
ities to connect LMMC's headquarters with the secondary and
terminal markets and with the railway transport offices.
3.   The provision of road transport equipment consisting of
four tractor-trailer combinations, and two single-deck and two
double-deck trailers.
Part C:   Transport equipment
1.   The provision of 10 locomotives, 69 double-deck sheep
wagons, 54 cattle wagons  and 9 vans, required for the operation
of four block trains.


﻿- 16 -
2.   The provision of locomotive spare parts.
Part D:   Railway transport infrastructure
1.   The establishment of six railway holding yards at Nyala,
Ed Daein, Aweil, Meiram, Babanusa and El Obeid.
2.   The establishment of three railway transit yards at Er
Rahad, Kosti and Sennar.
3.   The establishment of a railway terminal yard at Soba.
Part E:   Training and studies
1.   Training for LMMC's personnel on Project-related skills.
2.   The implementation of studies, including but not limited
to, studies on local markets, market procedures, national market-
ing policies and livestock export prospects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


