Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIZ-   Z   Z / -l'k7
Report No. 9417-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MAY 7, 1991
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =      Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ 1.00             =      1,671 PMG
1,000 FMG                   US$ 0.57
MEASUREMENTS
1 meter              =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer          =      0.62 mile
1 square kilometer  =       0.39 square mile
1 hectare           =       2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR - FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission and a post
appraisal mission that visited Madagascar in June 1990 and September 1990
respectively. The mission members were Mr. E. de Gaiffier (Mission
Leader), Dr. M. Pierre-Louis, Dr. J-L Lamboray (Public Health Specialists)
Dr. G. Champetier de Ribes (Epidemiologist, consultant), Dr. Maillard
(Public Health Specialist, consultant) and Ms. P. Brudon-Jakobovitz
(Drugs Specialist, WHO). Dr. B. Liese was the lead adviser. The report
was prepared by Mr. de Gaiffier with contributions of Dr. M. Pierre-Louis,
Mr. Laederach and Ms. E. Murray and edited by Mrs. W. Watriss. Mrs.
V. Vaselopulos and Miss V. Fauconnier provided secretarial assistance.
Mr. A. Colliou and Mr. F. Aguirre-Sacasa were the Managing Division Chief
and the Department Director, respectively for this operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR s HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS            Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
CIR             Country Implementation Review
CSP             Projects Monitoring Unit (Cellule de Suivi des Projets)
CSSP            Primary Health Care Center (Centre de Soins de Sante
Primaires)
DDT             Dichloro-diethyl-trichlorotane (a pesticide)
DEPP            Studies, Planning and Programming Department (Direction
des Etudes, de la Planification et de la Programmation)
DGS             Director General of Health (Directeur G6n6ral de la Sant6)
DHS             Demographic and Health Survey
DLMT            Communicable Disease Control Department (Direction de
Lutte contre lee Maladies Transmissibles)
DMC             Curative Medecine Department (Direction de la M6decine
Curative)
DMP             Preventive Medecine Department (Direction de la M6decine
Pr6vent ive)
DPL             Pharmacy and Laboratories Department (Direction de la
Pharmacie et des Laboratoires)
EDF             European Development F und
EEC             European Economic Community
EMSAP           Econoe...ic Management and Social Action Project
EPI             Expanded Programme on Immunization
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organisation
FISA            Fianakaviana Sambatra: Famille Heureuse (local NGO for FP)
FP              Family Planning
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GTZ             German Cooperation Agency
HDM             Health District Management
HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSP             Health Sector Program
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IEC             Information, Education and Communication
ILO             International Labour Organization
IPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD             Intra Uterine Device
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
MOH             Ministry of Health
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NPL             National Population Law
NPP             National Population Policy
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PAE             Environmental Action Program (Programme d'Action
Environnemental)
PEP             Public Expenditure Program
PHC             Primary Health Care
PHN             Population, Health and Nutrition
PSC             Project Steering Committee
PSAC            Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SSA             Sub Saharan Africa
STD             Sexually Transmitted Disease
TB              Tuberculosis
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF          Un'.ted Nations Children's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
WHO             World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MADAGASCAR$s HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEFINITION
Child Death Rate:         The number of deaths among children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children in that age group
in a given year.
Contraceptive             The percentage of married women of reprod"'itive
Prevalence Rate:          age who are using (or whose husbands are using)
any form of contraception.
Crude Birth Rate:         The number of births per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate:         The number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Dependency Ratio:         The ratio of the economically dependent part of
the population to the productive part,
arbitrarily defined as the ratio of the young
(those under 15 years of age) plus the elderly
(those 65 years of age and over) to the
population in the "working ages" (those 15 to 64
years of age).
Infant Mortality Rate:   The number of deaths of infants under one year
old in a given year per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Life Expectancy           The average number of years a newborn would live
at Birth:                 if current age-specific mortality rate trends
prevailing at the time of birth were to continue.
Low Birth Weight:         Infant weight at birth of less than 2,500 grams.
Maternal Mortality        The number of deaths of women who die due to
Rate:                     pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 100,000 live births in that year.
Morbidity Rate:           The frequency of disease in a population in a
given period.
Rate of Natural           The rate at which a population is increasing (or
Increase:                 decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population        The rate at which a population is increasing (or
Growth:                   decreasing) in a given year due to natural
increase and net migration expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate:    The average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during her
lifetime if during her chili-bearing years she
were to bear children at each age in accord with
prevailing age-specific fertility rates.



KADAGASCARX HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASIC DUAT
(All figures apply to 1988 estimates unless otherwise indicated)
General
Total area (km2)                          587,000
Total population                          11.6 million
Current population
growth rate (per annum)                 3.0%
Density (per km2)                         20
Total fertility rate                      6.6
Crude birth rate                          46 per 1000
Crude death rate                          16 per 1000
Life expectancy at birth                  50 years
Infant mortality rate                     120 per 1000
Child death rate                          65 per 1000
Rural population                          82%
Adult illiteracy rate                     32%
Primary school enrollment (gross)         121%
Secondary school Enrollment (gross)       36%
GNP per capita (1990)                     US$220
Health
Population per physician                  10,002
Population per nurse                      1,727
Population within reach of
health service                       65%
Children fully immunized (1990)           55%
contraceptive prevalence rate             3%
MOH share of all government
expenditures                         6.5%
Daily calorie supply (1990)               2,520
(% of minimum PAO standards)         (120)
Source: World Bank Social Indicators of Development 1989



MADAGASCAR: REALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................  iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................................................   1
II.  THE SECTOR. THE ISSUES AND THE BANK'S ROLE           . . .            2
A.   The Population Sector .....................................      2
B. The Health Sector                       . . .    5
C. Health Sector Issues                     ..            .    10
D.   Health Sector Policy and the Health Sector Program   ..   14
E.   Bank Involvement ..........................................  16
III. THE HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM AND TH- PROJECT        . . .8.......   i
A.   The Health Sector Program - Objectives and Strategy .......  18
B.   The Health Sector Program - Summary Description ...........  20
C.   The Health Sector Program - Detailed Description ..........   21
a)   Communicable Disease Control Programs ................  21
b)   Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning ............  22
C)   Primary Health Care ..................................  24
d)   Institutional Strengthening ..........................  25
D.   The Project - Objectives and Description ..................  27
IV.  THE HSP AND THE PROJECT - COSTS AND FINANCING ..................  31
A.   The HSP Costs .............................................  31
B.   The HSP Financing Plan ....................................   33
C.   The HSP - Recurrent Cost Implications            .     .        35
D.   The Project - Costs and Financing Plan           .      .      37
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.........................................
A.   organization and Management ............................. ..    40
B. Status of Preparation                  .......  41
C.   Procurement            ...............................................   42
D. Disbursements                      ....... 44
E.  Special Accounts          .       ...... ....  45
F.   Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation ......................     45
G. Auditing                       . ......... 45
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .... .......... ......................  46
A.   Benefits .. .       .      ........ .....   46
B.   Environmental Impact ...........................      ..  ...  46
C.   Riskss... .. ....               .      . .- . ..... .... ...   46
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION............... ...   47



(ii)
MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex I         5    Social Indicators
Annex II             Population Data and Projections
Annex III            MoH Organization
Annex IV             Letter of the Health Sector
Development Policy
Annex V         2    Project Costs
Annex VI        a    List of MoH facilities to be
upgraded in 1992
Annex VII       s    Technical Assistance Requirements
Annex VIII           Schedule of Training Activities
Annex IX        ,    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex X              Safe Use of Pesticides
Annex XI             Supervision Plan
Annex XII            Public Expenditure Program for Health,
1991-1993
Annex XIII           List of Documents in the Project File
MAP       No. 20035-R



(iii)
KADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Health (MoH)
Amount:         SDR 22.9 million (US$31.0 millson equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Obiectives:    The project would support the implementation of the
government's Health Sector Program (HSP) over the period
1992-96, with objectives of: (a) reducing mortality and
morbidity; (b) moderating fertility levels; anu
(c) improving the efficiency and sustainability of public
expenditures for health, the sector policy framework and
institutional coordination mechanisms. By accelerating the
integration of family planning services into the basic
activities of the public health system, it would also
contribute significantly to implementation of tha National
Population Law adopted in 1991.
Description:   The project would help finance: (a) delivery of
comprehensive communicable disease programs to control
malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, sexually transmitted
diseases (including AIDS), and the plague, and the
establishment of a communicable disease monitoring system;
(b) introduction/upgrading of family planning services an
an integral component of maternal and child health care
offered in at least 500 of MoHls clinics; (c) improved
delivery of primary health care services, including
reasonable access to essential drugs in all MoH outpatient
facilities; and (d) the first phase of a long term
institutional development program to: (i) progressively
restructure and strengthen the MoH's health delivery system
to increase its efficiency and invite greater
popular/community participation; (ii) strengthen NoH's
policy formulation and programming, monitoring and
evaluation capacity; and (iii) broaden the financing base
and improve the sustainability of public health
expenditures.
Beneficiaries: The project would benefit the majority of the population;
children under 5 and women of reproductive age, about 40
percent of the total population who constitute a vulnerable
group for health problems, would benefit more than
proportionately.
Benefits:       The communicable disease control, maternal and child health
and the other primary health care programs would help avert
preventable deaths, reduce the severity and duration of
illness episodes and reduce the risk of transmission of
endemic communicable diseases. The family planning (FP)
component would contribute towards reducing fertility
levels and population pressures. Institutional reforms in
the MoH are expected to lead to significant efficiency
gains, including in the use of public expenditures.
Studies would promote an adjustment of the health sector
policy framework, improve the *ustainability :f public
expenditures for health and facilitate better definition of
the respective roles of and coordination between the public
and private sector.



(iv)
MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMMNT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
(Continued)
First, the demands of delivering throughout Madagascar the
entire rpckage of priority activities spelled out in the
HSP could sttrain the institutional capacity of MoH. This
risk is addrassed through the reorganization of MoH central
staff an£ tee appointment of senior staff with recent field
experience to manegerial posistions, the design of the
institutional development component including the
rationalization of training programs and the mobilization
of technical and administrative specialists. The process
of preparing detailed annual work programs allows for
institutional capacity -onsiderations to be built into the
operational programs. Second, given the large number of
donors involved in the HSP there is a risk of delays in the
commitment of external resources. The creation and
appropriate staffing of the Projects Monitoring Unit and
the aid coordination mechanisms supported under the
project, especially the agreements calling for the timely
preparation of annual work programs and their review at a
donors' meeting, serve to minimize this risk.



(v)
MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs
- - - -US$ million - - - -        % Base Cost
Local      Foreian       Total
Proiect Component
1. Communicable Disease
Control                     1.9        14.6         16.5          4S
2.  Family Planning             0.1         3.9          4.0           11
3.  Other PHC Programs          1.2         7.8          9.0           25
4.  Institutional Strength.    1.5          3.4          4.9           14
5.  Taxes                       1.3           -          1.3            4
Total base costs            6.0        29.7         35.7          100
Physical contingencies      0.2         1.3          1.5            4
Price contingencies         1.7         3.6          5.3           15
Total project costs         7.9        34.6         42.5          119
Financing-Plan
- - - - US$ million - - - -
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                             2.3        28.7          31.0
Government 1/                   5.6          5.9         11.5
Total                           7.9         34.6         42.5
1/J  Including taxes estimated at US$1.3 million equivalent but excluding
duties estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent, which will be paid by
direct budgetary transfer.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
(USS million)
FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97
Annual           3.9       5.8        6.0       5.8        5.5      31.0
Cumulative      3.9        9.7       15.7      21.5       27.0      31.0
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE:       December 31, 1996
MAP: No. 2035-R



MADAOASZAR: HEALTH SECTOR IWPROVENENT PROJZCT
STAFF APPRAISAL$REPORT
I . INTRODUCTION
1.1.        With a population of about 11 million growing at three percent
per year and a per capita income of about US$220 I.n 1989, Madagascar is one
of the poorest countries in the world. It is the world's fourth largest
island, with a rugged topography, variations in soils and climate and a
unique flora and fauna. Rice is the country's main staple, and the major
exports are coffee, vanilla, cloves and shellfish. At the time of
independence in 1960, Madagascar was a net exporter of rice and had a
thriving private sector which operated in a relatively liberal economic
environment. Since then, the country's economic record is one of modest
growth to 1970, stagnation from 1970 to 1980, sharp deterioration between
1980 and 1982, and financial stabilization with limited economic growth
from 1983 through 1987. Since 1988, oconomic results have been
encouraging.
1.2.        The disappointing growth performance of the 1970s steimmed
largely from inappropriate economic policies. These emphasized a much
increased public sector role, with import substitution and
industrialization as the central objective and agriculture in a supporting
role, nationalization of enterprises, extensive consumer subsidies, and
pervasive controls on private economic activity. Nevertheless, for most of
the dezade, fiscal deficits remained low; the resource g&p averaged 4
percent of GDP; and the debt-service ratio was also kept at a low level
(about 4 percent). Between 1978 and 1980, however, the Government embarked
on an "all-out" public investment policy which was insufficiently
coordinated, and included large and economically non-viable projects
financed largely by external borrowing on commercial terms. This ill-
advised policy combined with declining terms of trade and stagnant domestic
reverues led to an 11 percent decline in real GDP from 1980 to 1982, as
well as a large external debt burden, which still severely constrains
economic growth. Government's efforts at financial stabilization began in
1981 and have been reinforced since 1982, with IMF assistance.
1.3.        Social indicators are very poor, with indications that during
the past two decades improvements in some respects have been slight if at
all. Successive devaluations and budgetary pressures stemming from ths
poor economic management of the past have severely curtailed both the
access of the population to basic social services and the quality of
services provided by the state. The government wishes to rehabilitate the
health sector, to increase its efficiency and make it more responsive to
the health service needs of the population that too often go unmet.
1.4.        The identification of the proposed project stems from a
Population and Health Sector Review carried out in 1986 (Report No. 6446-
MAG). It was complemented by the macroeconomic analysis underlying the
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 1941-MAG of 1988) and the
Economic Management and Social Action Project (Credit No. 1967-MAG of 1988)
that complemented it. Intensive discussions with the Ministry of Health
(MoH) regarding the size and the composition of the public expenditure
program for health led to the creation of a working group which prepared,
with the assistance of technical experts, a Health Sector Program (HSP)
encompassing the major service delivery and institutional strengthening
programs needed to address basic health needs in Madagascar. This document
was distributed to the donor community and was discussed at an informal
meeting of donors held in September 1990 in Antananarivo. It is also the



-2-
basic technical document underlying the proposed proje t and Madagascar's
Public Expenditure Program (PEP) for 1991-93.
1.5.        Implementation of the HSP over the project period 1992-96 is
estimated to cost about US$100 million (excluding the salaries of regular
MoH personnel) with a foreign exchange component of about US$83 million.
Since the HSP represents a rationalization and intensification of the core
activities supported by MoH's expenditure program, its implementation would
benefit from ongoing cooperation agreements with several donors.  It has
also attracted additional fi'.:ancing and several current donors have
indicated an intention to extend/increase their support. Beneficiaries of
the public health services are also expected to contribute about 8 percent
of program costs through the purchase of drugs and medical supplios. The
project supports several major components of the HSP; the proposed ID1k
contribution is US$31.0 million, to be disbursed over five years.
II. THE SECTOR. =Ht ISMUEw AND THE BANK'S ROLE
2.1.        This section presents a summary of the status of population,
health and nutrition in Madagascar, the Government's policies and programs
in these sectors and the outstanding issues which are to be addreased under
the proposed operation. It updates the information provided in the
Madagascar Population and Health Sector Review No. 6446-MAG of July 7,
1987.
A. The Povulation Sector
2.2.        Demographic Characteristics.  Madagasc&r's population grew from
about 2 million at the beginning of the century to 7.6 million enumerated
in the census of 1975. A Second population census is scheduled for June
1991. In the meantime, the 1990 population is estimated at 11.6 million, of
which about 82 percent are rural. The population is unevenly distributed:
in 1975, approximately 28 percent lived in the Province of Antananarivo,
with a density of 37 inhabitants per squar.i kilometer (sq. km.), whereas
the Province of Mahajanga had less than 11 percent, with a density of 5.5
inhabitants per sq. km. Much of the rural population is widely dispersed
in small settlements that are often difficult to reach and costly to
provide with basic social and productive infrastructure. International
migration is limited by Madagascar island's status and internal migration
is currently tne result of population pressure on the arable land.
Internal movement is largely toward the capital and larger towns, a pattern
that poses serious problems in the provision of basic social services.
Approximately 45 percent of the population is under age 15; little change
can be expected in this youthful age structure as long as fertility remains
at its current high level of about 6.5. As a consequence, during the next
decades Madagascar will continue to experience a high dependency ratio
approaching 100 percent that will place heavy demands on economic and
social development.
2.3.        Po2ulAtion Growth and Pro2ections.  The current annual
population growth rate of about 3 percent is the result of estimated crude
birth and death rates of 46 and 16 per thousand respectively. While there
are indications that the death rate has been falling during the last three
decades, the birth rate appears to have remained at historically high
levels. Using available data, the Bank has prepared a standard projection
for the peniod 1990-2030 that incorporates assumptions about changes in the
demographic parameters based on international comparisons with countries of
similar income levels and similar social status indicators. It also



- 3 -
TABLE 2.1:    MADAGASCAR - POPULATION PROJECTIONS
COMPARATIVE RESULTS OF STANDARD, RAPID AND SLOW FERTILITY DECLINE ASSUMPTIONS
A.  TOTAL POPULATION (OOOs)                  1975                1990                2000               2025
Standard projections              7,603              11,620              15,759             28,833
Stow fertility decline                               11,620              15,897             36,216
Rapid fertility decline                              11,620              14,865             21,783
ANNUAL BIRTHS (OOOs)
Standard projections                 354                538                 690                741
Slow fertility decline                                  538                 728              1,431
Rapid fertility decline                                 538                 516                449
POPULAT'ON AGED 0 - 14 YEARS (000s)
Standard projections              3,389               5,417              7,212              10,121
Slow fertility decline                                5,417              7,350              16,077
Rapid fertility decline                               5,417              6,319               6,092
POPULATION AGED 15 - 59 YEARS
Standard projections              3,813               5,879              8,104              17,783
Slow fertility decline                                5,879              8,104              19,210
kapid fertiLity decLine                               5,879              8,103              14,762
DEPENDENCY RATIO
Standard projections               98.3                99.0                94.5               62.1
Slow fertility decline                                 99.0                96.1               88.5
Rapid fertility decline                                99.0                83.4               47.7
Av. 1985-90        Av. 1995-00         Av. 2020-25
B.   LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)
ALL scenarios                      45.4      50.3                53.0               62.6
C.   TOTAL FERTILITY RATE
Standard projections              6.600    6.455                6.155              3.013
Slow fertility decline                      6.455               6.455              5.405
Rapid fertility decline                     6.455               4.655              2.294
NET REPRODUCTION RATE
Standard projections               n.a.    2.346                2.350              1.313
Slow fertility decline                      2.346               2.465              2.349
Rapid fertility decline                     2.346               1.781              1.000
D.   BIRTH RATE (PER 1000 POPULATION)
Standard projections               46.5      46.3                43.8               25.7
Slow fertility decline                       46.3                45.8               39.5
Rap.d fertility decline                      46.3                34.7               20.6
E.   DEATH RATE (PER 1000 POPULATION)
Standard projections                16.7     16.0                13.5                7.4
Slow fertility dccine                        16.0                13.7                7.6
Rapid fertility decline                      16.0                12.6                8.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER 1000 LIVE BIRTHS)
All scenarios                        150      120                 102                 58
F.   NATURAL RATE OF POPULATION INCREASE (ASSUMPTION NO NET INTERNATIONAL MiGRATION)
Standard projections               2.98      3.03                3.04               1.83
Slow fertility decline                       3.03                3.21               3.19
Rapid fertility decline                      3.03                2.21               1.24
G.   IMPLIED MODERN CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALANCE (% CURRENT USERS AMONG WOMEN OF CHILDBEARING AGE)
1975               1990                2000               2025
Standard projections               n.a.                 2.0                 8.2               30.4
Slow fertility decline                                  2.0                 2.6               12.1
Rapid fertility decline                                 2.0                17.8               32.6



-4-
prepared two other scenarios corresponding to a slower and a more rapid
decline in fertility levels. The outcomes of these three scenarios are
presented in Table 2.1. Historical data, key projection variables and
population tables for the standard projections are presented in Annex II.
2.4.        The ImDact of Pooulation Growth.  The population projections
indicate that changes in the size and structure of Madagascar's population
can be expected to have major impacts on key development factors, as
discussed below.
2.5.        Environment.  The high rate of population growth severely
threatens Madagascar's rich and unique ecology, especially in terms of the
increase in consumption of fuelwood, which accounts for over 80 percent of
total energy use. Since 1983 a deficit of fuelwood has developed at the
national level, and provinces such as Antananarivo and Fianarantsoa, which
have more than half the population but contain less than 12 percent of the
forest land, are facing serious deforestation. Conservation of this
ecological heritage is being addressed by an Environmental Action Program
(PAE) that was developed with the participation of major donors and
specialized agencies, including IDA. Its implementation is being supported
by IDA Credit 2125-MAG of 1990. Nevertheless, without a sharp and rapid
reduction in the rate of population growth, even energetic implementation
of the PAE will not suffice to overcome the environmental challenge.
2.6.        Social Sectors.  Growth of the population, particularly among
the 0-15 year-old age group during the next two decades, will present the
government with major challenges in improving the living conditions and
developing the country's human resource base. The increasing number of
children born each year during the past two decades and the continuation of
a rising trend for at least the next decade will generate large additional
demands for investments and financing recurrent costs simply to maintain
the current, inadequate access to basic social services. In the education
sector, the number of primary school students to be enrolled is projected
to increase by 50 percent over 1990 levels by the year 2000 and double by
the year 2025 under the standard projections; without fertility decline, it
would triple by 2025. In the health sector, expenditures are sensitive to
the number of young children and of pregnancies. The frequency of closely
spaced pregnancies not only exacerbates population growth, it also
contributes significantly to the demand for health services by increasing
the risk of malnutrition, disease and death among women and their children.
National data indicate that about 15 percent of all children born have a
low birth weight (less than 2.5 kg), and almost a third of all children
under 5 are underweight for theix age (below 80 percent of the
international standard). Food insecurity and inadequate household
resources to meet the minimum food requirements of households are major
problems. They are now being addressed by the government, whose efforts
would be supported by an operation under preparation for IDA financing.
2.7.        Employment.  The economically active population is projected to
increase from about 5.8 million in 1990 to 12.9 million by year 2015. The
implication is that if participation rates in the economy are to remain at
least at present levels, an average of some 125,000 new jobs will have to
be created annually, including in agriculture, between now and the year
2000, and 160,000 annually between 2000 and 2015. Without a decline in the
fertility rates, by 2030 the number of new jobs needed would reach 225,000
annually.
2.8.        Agriculture is the most important sector for employment even
though this sector's capacity to absorb new labor force entrante in
traditional activities is limited because fertile land is in short supply
in most of the country. Average per capita food production currently
exceeds the minimum energy requirements established by the Food and



-  -
Agriculture Organization (PAO) although it fell by about 25 percent during
the 1970's and the first half of the 1980's. Since then a turnaround has
been achieved. Variations in household access to food, primarily
attributable to differences in purchasing power and in access to land, and
inefficient use of available food lead to significant levels of seasonal
and long-term malnutrition. The potential for agriculture to generate
additional food, income and employment opportunities is limited,
particularly in the high plateaux where over half the population lives,
where population pressure has led to exploitation of marginal agricultural
soils and where 71 percent of land holdings are already below the minimum
size needed to produce, using current cropping technology, the minimum food
requirements of the average Malagasy family. The long-run effects of rapid
population growth on agricultural production, productivity and the
environment are now being analyzed by the government; they need to be
completed with studies on their impact on nutritional status and on the
amount of time farm parents have available for the care of their children
and its linkage to the frequency of child feeding. If the fertility rate
decreases, the average per capita availability of food in the households,
for a given level of agricultural output, will increase.
2 .9        The National Ponulation Policy.  Since independence and
throughout the 1970s, the government pursued a pro-natalist policy. By the
early 1980s, however, poor economic performance and falling living
standards led it to reexamine of the impact of population growth on
development objectives and basic needs satisfaction. In 1984, the
Government created a National Parliamentary Group on Population end
Development and in 1986 a Population and Development Unit in the Ministry
of Planning to study and integrate population variables into development
plans. In 1987, the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) sponsored a First National Conference on Population and
Development, at which the "RAPID" simulation model of the impact on the
economy of different rates of population growth was presented. It led in
1988 to the commissioning of an interministerial committee to prepare a
national population policy statement. A broad based statement of
population policy was adopted by the cabinet in July 1990 and promulgated
into the National Population Law (NPL) by the Parliamenit in January 1991.
its key provisions include: (a) recognition of the right of Malagasy women
to modern family planning information and services; (b) reduction of the
total fertility rate from about 6.5 to 4.0 children by the year 2000; and
(c) a mandate that the Ministry of Health (MoH) improve health service
delivery and provide family planning services in its health clinics. The
NPL also stresses the need to improve living conditions and access to basic
social services, especially for the more disadvantaged segments of the
population. A decree abrogating those parts of the French regulation of
1920 prohibiting the advertisement and sale of contraceptives has been
prepared and is expected to be enacted during the course of 1991. Since
the government has already undertaken in the context of its current Policy
Framework Paper not to apply this regulation, the major impact of the
abrogation decree would be to send an unambiguous message that the
government intends to openly address the population issues. The NPL does
not change the legal status of abortion which will remain illegal except to
save the mother's life   The government, with the assistance of the donor
community, including the Bank (see also para. 2.27), is developing an
action program to implement the NPL. (Issues relating to family planning
services are covered in paras. 2.19 to 2.22).
S. The Nealth Sector
2.10.       Health Status. Health conditions in Madagascar are poor, with
disease and mortality patterns typical of countries at the early stages of
epidemiological transition. The health indicators are close to the



-6-
averages for Sub-Saharan African countries: for 1990, life expectancy at
birth is estimated at 50 years; infant mortality at 120 per thousand live
births; child mortality (1-4 years) at a cumulative 65 per thousand
children in this age group; and maternal mortality at 350-400 per 100,000
live births, a conservative figure. In general, the health statistics are
sketchy and require care in interpretation; their improvement would be
addressed under the project.
2.11.       The mortality and morbidity data from the public health system
point to a predominance of infectious and parasitic diseases, which are
typically associated with poverty, poor sanitation, lack of access to safe
water and ignorarce. In 1987, the leading causes of death reported to the
MoH were: malaria (8 percent); perinatal problems (8 percent); diarrheal
diseases (6 porcent); malnutrition (5 percent) and respiratory diseases (3
pcrWeiC), including tuberculosis (TB). The leading causes of morbidity
reported from outpatient facilities were: respiratory diseases (23
percent); malaria (9 percent); diarrheal diseases (8 percent) and
intestinal parasites (3 percent). In hospitals, communicable diseases were
the five leading causes of admissions, accounting for 25 percent of the
total hospital caseload.
2.12.       Health conditions seem to have stagnated during the past two
decades, and there is some indication that diseases linked to poverty and
unsanitary living conditions, notably TB, plague and water borne diseases
may be on the rise. The government's official population estimates and
projections are based on a constant rather than declining level of
mortality. Poor nutritional status is a contributing factor.
2.13.       Nutrition.  The rate of malnutrition is high and persistent
even in food surplus areas. Survey results for children under 5 range from
over 60 percent of chronically malnourished children in some areas to 29
percent in others with a national average between 36 percent and 40
percent. A variety of factors explain the paradox of persistent
malnutrition in a context of adequate food production. A Food Security and
Nutrition operation is under preparation and proposes to address these
problems on a double track - first by helping the government develop a
National Food Security and Nutrition Strategy and second by financing a
series of targeted activities to improve the nutritional status of the poor
and reduce nutritional vulnerability.
2.14.       Communicable Diseases.  By 1987 malaria became the leading
cause of mortality and the most frequent reason given for visiting a health
facility. This situation is telling, given that during the 1960s and early
1970s, the disease had practically been eradicated from the central
highlands and was controlled in the rest of the country, in part through
systematic prophylaxis of pregnant women and children. Between 1975 and
1985, however, malaria gradually made a comeback, reaching epidemic levels
in several parts of the highlands by 1987. In 1988, an emergency control
program including presumptive treatment of malaria symptoms at the village
level using specially trained community workers on an outreach basis,
vector control of selected sites in the highlands and heightened
surveillance and public education was launched with support from several
donors, including IDA through the EMSAP Project (Report No. 7410-MAG of
October 27, 1988). This program has been successful in reducing the threat
of an epidemic: reported mortality from malaria in the highlands has
declined by over 75 percent, and affordable treatment is now available from
MoH personnel in all basic health facilities operated by the MoH, as well
as from about 17,000 community malaria agents covering almost of all the
country's 11,000 villages. The lessons learned from this program have been
incorporated in the MoH communicable disease programs for 1992-96.



7-
2.15.       TB has become a major public health concern, with an estimated
18,000 new cases annually. A large-scale sample survey of school-aged
children reported an average annual risk of contracting TB of 2.8 per
thousand. The number of tiew cases diagnosed and treated in 1988 was about
4,400 or less than a quarter of the estimated number of new cases; of the
diagnosed cases, 3,122 were contagious. The number of confirmed cases has
been rising 10-20 percent each year since 1985, and the proportion of
patients suffering from an advanced stage of TB has been increasing. The
urgency of controlling TB transmission is reinforced because of the
susceptibility of people infected with the Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
(HIV), which causes Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), to the
disease. Even though the TB case fatality rate has been dropping, it
remains high at an estimated 3.7 percent. Major constraints include
limited access to diagnosis and treatment centers, insufficient supplies of
drugs and inadequate monitoring and follow-up in MoH facilities to ensure
that patients complete their 6 to 12-month course of treatment. Similar
conditions prevail with respect to leprosy. The prevalence rate is
estimated at 4 to 7 percent of the population (500,000 to 800,000 cases),
and the incidence of new cases is estimated at about 150,000 per annum.
The number of registered cases has remained at about 25,000, the number
under active treatment at about 10,000 to 15,000. The plague is endemic in
the rodent population around Fianarantsoa. The number of reported human
cases rose to about 250 in 1990, with outbreaks reported both in the
endemic area and in major cities, including Antananarivo.
2.16.       Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs).  Although accurate data
are not available, STDs are common; the failure to treat these infections
often leads to female sterility which is believed to affect a significant
proportion of women. Although the reported number of AIDS cases does not
yet constitute a major public health problem, the confirmed presence of the
HIV virus in blood samples drawn from high-risk groups poses a severe
threat. The government has a chance of containing or at least controlling
the spread of the disease through monitoring and treatment of STDs and
through education programs aimed at informing and protecting as a first
priority the high-risk population groups, and also the public at large.
Given the data available on the prevalence of STDs, a failure to rapidly
undertake these priority programs could lead, within a decade, to an AIDS
epidemic of the severity now being faced by a number of Sub-Saharan African
nations. When the epidemic reaches such proportions, it causes severe
strains on the hospital systems and health care financing mechanisms,
serious social disruption, especially through the creation of orphans and
through an overtaxing of community coping mechanisms, and has the potential
for negating the health and life expectancy gains of the past decades. The
MoH is collaborating closely with the World Health Organization (WHO) in
developing appropriate STD and AIDS control strategies and is assisted by a
number of donors, including the European Economic Community (EEC) and the
German Cooperation Agency (GTZ). A medium-term AIDS Control Program was
endorsed by a donor meeting in November 1990 as an integral part of the
National Health Sector Program (HSP); the proposed project would also
contribute to its implementation.
2.17.       Maternal and Child Health (MCH).  Initial efforts to improve
child survival have focused on immunizations against common childhood
diseases. An intensification of the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI)
was the major focus of the national health strategy during 1986-90, when
coverage of fully immunized children rose from below 30% to an estimated
55%. These results have fallen short of the planned objective of 80%
coverage largely because of logistical difficulties in delivering
vaccination services, low frequentation of public health facilities and a
failure to fully utilize all contacts between MoH staff and patients to
improve vaccinal coverage. Proposals for improving this performance have
been prepared by MoR, including measures to work closely with NGO's, local



-8-
governments and communities and to mobilize recent medical school graduates
to lead mobile outreach vaccination programs in the areas with the lowest
coverage rates. MoH efforts are also increasingly being turned to treating
diarrheas and respiratory infections that rank among the top three causes
of diseaie and mortality reported to the Ministry. The government has
prepared, with the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) and WHO
assistance, a stronger MCH program that centers around: (i) a national
diarrheal disease control program, with activities at the village level;
(ii) diagnosis and treatment of respiratory infections; and (iii) a program
of maternal and infant care, focussing on regular examinations, preventive
and curative services before and after childbirth and supervised delivery
in MoH facilities.
2.18.       Maternal Mortality and Morbidity.  Although the facility-based
data probably seriously under report maternal mortality, they support
estimates in the range of 350-400 deaths per 100,000 live births, somewhat
above the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. The principal reasons are: poor
access to quality prenatal and child delivery care -- while over 60 percent
of pregnant mothers seek a prenatal consultation, far fewer receive the
recommended series of visits and fewer still receive adequate care; a high
rate of miscarriages and induced abortions, a widely used, albeit illegal,
practice involving traditional and non-medical means, with attendant
complications; lack of access to effective modern contraception;
insufficient spacing of pregnancies; and generally poor health and
nutritional status of expectant mothers. One survey carried out in the
principal hospital of Antananarivo revealed that over 15 percent of all
maternal deaths were attributable to abortions; in another survey in the
capital area, 36 percent of the women of childbearing age who were not
pregnant reported that they would seek an abortion should they become
pregnant. The major causes of reported maternal mortality in hospitals are
postpartum complications (29 percent), sequels of abortions (16 percent)
and hemorrhage (7 percent). In rural settings, 43 percent of maternal
deaths are attributable to postpartum complications, 30 percent to
complications arising from abortions and 10 percent directly to abortions.
The most frequently reported causes for outpatient visits by pregnant women
are "risk of miscarriage" (19 percent), hemorrhage (12 percent) and sequels
of miscarriages/abortions (9 percent). This pattern of health problems
underlines the need and urgency of making safe and effective methods of
birth spacing available.
2.19.       Demand for Family Plannina (FP) services.  Several surveys and
studies conducted in different parts of the country show an unmet demand
for modern family planning services. The results of a survey conducted by
WHO in Antananarivo in 1986 showed that: (a) 67 percent of the women 15-49
years of age in the sample did not want additional children; (b) one-third
of the women 15-24 years old (with a family of two or more children) in the
sample did not want any more children; (c) the ideal family size quoted in
the study was four, as opposed to the current 6.3; among women who had
reported ever using FP methods, 64 percent had used inefficient ones and 33
percent efficient ones. In 1988, these findings were confirmed by a study
carried out by Fianakaviana Sambatra (Famille Heureuse - FISA) a Malagasy
affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF): at
its six regional headquarters, 55 percent of surveyed women indicated they
did not want additional children. The data on maternal mortality (para.
2.18) corroborate the existence of unmet demand for FP services and further
emphasize the need and urgency to make safe and effective methods of
contraception available.
2.20.       Family Planning Service Delivery.  The accessibility and
availability of FP services are poor, even in the urban areas where they
are predominantly concentrated. Services are currently provided in 150
health centers throughout the country (up from 60 in 1985). This number



- 9 -
includes 50 MoH siteo sponsored by a United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA) project, 7 clinics run by parastatal enterprises
principally for their employees, 10 FP clinics run by FISA (the majnr
provider), 79 health clinics jointly run by FISA and MoH, and 10 medical
centers of the MoH that have been equipped to perform surgical
sterilization (vasectomy and tubal ligation). Altogether only 6 percent of
all clinics or facilities offering MCH services offer FP services.
Contraceptive methods are also available at 80 drugstores throughout the
country, although most are concentrated in the capital. In 1989, a
contraceptives social marketing project was initiated by the Family
Planning International Association in Antananarivo with the German
pharmaceutical company Hoescht. Under this project, condoms, foams and
pills are sold at subsidized prices through a network of outlets
distributing veterinarian products.
2.21.       The prevalence of modern contraception is estimated at less
than 3 percent, meaning that about 70,000 women of reproductive age are
currently using an efficient method of contraception. The number of new
acceptors is about 40,000 annually. The contraceptive mix is approximately
as follows: oral contraceptives 65 percent; injectables 18 percent; IUDs 7
percent; condoms 6 percent and other methods 4 percent. Some important
constraints found in other countries such as the husband's consent and the
need for extensive medical testing are not significant factors in
Madagascar. Given the difficulty of access to FP services, the implied
continuation rate for those who achieve access is high by African
standards.
2.22.       In 1987, the UNFPA sponsored the first pilot Safe Motherhood
initiative, a three-year project (1987-89), with the MoH. Fifty FP sites
were opened throughout the country, predominantly in rural areas, under the
incorrect assumption that the FP coverage in urban areas by non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) was adequate.  The second phase of the
UNFPA project is being developed as an integral component of the HSP
following evaluation of the first phase and an assessment of the MCH/FP
situation in Madagascar. Although this project was successful in training
about 158 personnel of all categories in FP technology and Information,
Education and Communication (IEC), one of its major weaknesses was the
failure to integrate FP into MCH activities and the inadequacy of MCH care
delivered in the pilot health facilities. For this reason, the MoH has
established integration as a principle of future MCH/FP program development
in Madagascar.
2.23.       The Health System.  The MoH is the major provider of health
services in Madagascar, operating a network of some 2,000 outpatient health
facilities consisting of about 1,250 primary health care centers staffed by
health assistants, about 500 health posts, dispensaries and maternities
staffed by nurses and midwives and some 250 referral health clinics run by
a medical practitioner. This system is supported by a hospital system of
14 surgical hospitals, 8 principal and general hospitals and some 8
specialized institutions to which cases that cannot be treated in
outpatient facilities are referred. This health network covers all 112
Fivondronana (district) and reaches all the 1236 Firaisana (county,, with a
primary health facility located in about 1 out of every 8 Fokontanv
(village). Some 65 percent of the population is estimated to live within a
5 kilometer radius or a 1 hour walking distance of a MoH facility. In
addition, outreach programs operated by the MoH, such as are used for
delivering the EPI program, and community based health workers, such as the
village malaria agents, enable almost all the population to benefit from
public health programs.
2.24.       Oroanization of the MoH.  The MoH is headed by a Minister of
Health, who is assisted by a Secretary General to whom report the Director



- 10-
General of Health (DGS), the Director of Administration and Finance, the
six chiefs of the Provincial health services and the hospitals (see Annex
III for organizational chart). The Headquarters staff is organized into
five departments that report to the DGSt (a) Studies, Planning and
Programming (DEPP); (b) Preventive Medicine (DMP), including Primary Health
Care (PHC) and MCH; (c) Communicable Disease Control (DLMT); (d) Curative
Medicine (DMC), including hospital services and (e) Pharmacy and
Laboratories (DPL). Operational health facilities are classified into
hospitals, each with its own mandate and operating budget, and public
health facilities, which offer most of the preventive, outpatient and
first-leve, referral health services. The public health facilities are
organized into 6 provincial services, 36 medical regions (circonscriDtion
medicale) headed by a medical inspector, and 220 medical subdistricts
(secteur medical) headed by a doctor. During the implementation period of
the HSP, an institutional reform program would be undertaken to strengthen
the provincial health services, develop a management system based on a
health district convergent with the Fivondronana, thereby gradually phasing
out medical regions and subdistricts. At the end of this process, the MoH
facilities would be organized in a classical three tiered system, each with
its defined functions. Operating budgets are currently decentralized down
to the medical region level. Personnel are administered centrally by the
Administration and Finance Department and the Civil Service Ministry,
except for payroll which is handled by the Ministry of Finance. At the
level of local government, health matters are the responsibility of the
social committees and a village health committee has been established in
each village. Interaction between these entities and the MoH health
district officials would be encouraged.
2.25.       NGOs are the other major providers of health services.  With
about 320 clinics, they tend to focus on urban areas and often serve a
clientele with some ability to pay: user fees are the rule, although
typically the fees do not cover the full costs of service. Private and
corporate medical practice is limited but has been growing rapidly of late.
Private pharmacies in the cities and larger towns handle almost three-
quarters of the value of drugs imported into, and produced in Madagascar.
In smaller towns, shopkeepers may apply to the MoH for a license to sell
drugs prescribed by the local doctor or paramedic, in charge of an MoH
health facility.  The drugs are typically purchased from the pharmacy in
the nearest town at retail prices and sold to patients at a further markup.
Five private sector firms are licensed to import drugs which are
distributed through five wholesalers and about 100 pharmacies. There are
two major pharmaceutical manufacturers capable of peoducing a broad range
of drugs and allied products and a number of smaller firms. Traditional
healers continue to have an important following, in part because of the
non-availability, inaccessibility and monetary cost of modern medical care
and drugs, especially in the more remote rural areas.
C. Health Sector Issues
2.26.       Role of the State and Coordination with the Private Sector.
The ideology and policies of past governments assigned a dominant role to
the state in the provision and financing of health care, a situation that
persists. The government is now, however, very much aware of the
desirability of promoting complementarity and, in certain areas,
competition between public and private health service providers to
accelerate the achievement of its health objectives. It is seeking to
promote a vigorous and efficient private sector response to national
development needs even though the capacity of the private sector to expand
to meet unmet demand is limited. The government is also convinced that
rapid attainment of its national health objectives will require
mobilization of additional resources from a much broader spectrum of



- 11 -
financiers, domestic and foreign. Key issues facing the redefinition of
the role of the state in the health sector are the need to: (a) strengthen
the public sector's capacity to protect consumer interests; (b) develop
instruments to provide incentives for non-government agencies to
participate in the provision and financing of health care and to coordinate
delivery of public and private programs; (c) foster conditions conducive to
efficient pricing, by international standards, of health and services and
related inputs; (d) focus public expenditures increasingly on the provision
of services that are public goods in a real sense; and (e) develop safety
net provisions to ensure equitable access to basic health services for all
segments of the popu±ation as user charges and service pricing are
introduced to supplement public funding of essential health services. The
institutional development component of the proposed project would support
studies, mobilization of expertise and staff development to address these
and related issues. Opportunities for implementing the policy
recommendations arising out of thjse studies would be examined in the
context of the mid-term evaluation (para. 3.31).
2.27.       Imiplementation of the NPL.  Given the sensitivity of
reproductive health and child-rearing issues and the multiplicity of
actors/agencies called to contribute to the objectives of the NPL, the
government faces a major challenge in prioritizing, coordinating,
monitoring and evaluating an implementation program that achieves maximum
impact with limited resources. The principal issues in this area, which
are receiving support from the donor community, are: (a) the weakness of
institutional mechanisms and the absence of a functioning apex institution
for consultation and decision-making among government agencies and between
the government and non-government sectors; (b) the limited number of
nationals with population expertise, both in and out of government; (c) the
paucity of relevant sociocultural data and research on the direct and the
indirect determinants of fertility; (d) the imperative need to improve
child survival prospects and maternal health conditions as preconditions
for ushering in fertility reductions; and (e) the weak capacity of the
medical referral systems in supporting FP public information and community
mobilization campaigns.  The strengthening of the MoH's role in improving
maternal and child survival and in improving access of couples to quality
FP services is a major focus of the proposed project and would
significantly contribute to the attainment of the social and demographic
objectives of the NPL.
2.28.       DemooraDhic and Health Data.  The lack of reliable, up-to-date
demographic and health information is a constraint on fine tuning the
policy framework and improving program design. Completing the national
population census and the demographic and health survey (DHS) on schedule
in 1991 and the timely analysis and publication of the data must be
priorities. Subsequently, the Malagasy authorities will need to develop an
efficient, decentralized management information system for the social
sectors, a task for which funding has been provided under EMSAP. Efforts
to streamline and reorient MoH's health information system and to carry out
sample-based surveys and applied research on key public health and service
efficiency issues, including perceived needs and attitudes of
beneficiaries, would be supported under the proposed project.
2.29.       Organization and Staffing of the MoH.  A major reorganization
of the MoH headquarters departments was undertaken in February 1991 and
accompanied by a redefinition of the functional mandate and staffing
profile of each department and service. The changes introduced address
institutional issues identified during the preparation of the proposed
project that presented a serious risk of constraining program development
and health system management. The creation of a position of Director
General of Health is expected to facilitate program coordination. Staffing
levels at headquarters are globally more than adequate, although some



- 12 -
reassignment of staff among units and between headquarters and the field
would be beneficial to ensure an appropriate balance between technology and
its application. Implementation of the planned organizational changes
should however not require a net creation of headquarters positions.
Staffing at the provincial and district levels will need to be rationalized
and reinforced over time to promote the efficient operation of the public
health system (see also para. 2.31); in the short run much improvement in
service delivery can be gained by providing adequate operating budgets and
training opportunities for skills development.
2.30.       The major issues facing the MoH in this area are:
(a) strengthening the central staff of the MoH by appointing well-qualified
and motivated managers with field experience to key headquarters positions
and particularly to the divisions responsible for PHC and FP;
(b) managerial and specialized technical training programs, including in
the latest developments in public and family health technology;
(c) allocation of operating budgets that permit headquarters staff to carry
out their functions, including field missions to supervise and evaluate
projects and programs; (d) development of a program-based planning,
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation system for expenditures that
consolidate domestic and external resources; and (e) a strengthening of aid
mobilization, coordination and administration mechanisms and budgets within
the MoH. The proposed project would complement national and external
resources that have been made available to the MoH in this area.
2.31.       Oraanization and Supervision of PHC Services.  The
configuration of the system for delivering PHC services by MoH has evolved
over a long period, and the construction of the primary health care centers
was the result of community initiatives rather than the outcome of a
rational planning process designed to develop health care coverage
equitably and efficiently. As a consequence, the current system and the
deployment of personnel will need to be adjusted in order to carry out the
national HSP efficiently and with maximum benefits. The major structural
issues concern: (a) the unequal spatial distribution and population
coverage by health facilities; (b) insufficient staffing to provide the
full range of priority curative, preventive and community-based services in
many of the peripheral facilities; (c) too many levels of facilities and
the separation between public health and hospital services result in a poor
coordination of services and inadequate referral capability; and
(d) insufficient decentralization of operating budgets, which are not
established in relation to service provision or outcome criteria.
2.32.       The operation of PHC facilities is seriously constrained by
inadequate operating budgets that have seriously eroded the public's
confidence in the health system and, except in the periods following drug
resupply, its willingness to seek services in all but the most dire
circumstances. This dysfunction has led to piecemeal service delivery by
the MoH and efforts by donors to focus their assistance along programmatic
lines. The concept of the health center or clinic as a base of operations
of the health system for curative, preventive and health promotion services
has been lost, and essential synergies between the different activities are
not being realized. The MoH recognizes that a major effort needs to be
made to: (a) redefine the basic package of services to be delivered by a
basic health facility, its activities and staffing profiles and related job
descriptions; (b) establish the parameters for the health sector to be
served by a basic health facility; (c) organize the management of the
health system into health districts equivalent to the Fivondronana level of
public administration (112 Fivondronana with an average population of about
100,000 each); and (d) institute at the health district level an
operational planning, programming and evaluation system that relates
operating budgets and personnel deployment to specific health coverage
objectives and activity targets and that holds district health officers



- 13 -
accountable for the efficiency of resource utilization. The project would
assist in launching this program of reforms for which complementary
assistance and financing of pilot programs would be provided by the
UNDP/WHO.
2.33.       Health Worker oualifications and Motivation.  Over the past
decade, a number of factors have severely eroded the skills and attitudes
of MoH staff. Inadequate operating budgets have created severely deficient
working conditions that prevent many from applying their professional
skills. A mentality of shortage has engendered work habits that are at
odds with appropriate public health and medical practices (failure to
sterilize, the re-use of disposable medical equipment, non-delivery of
services such as vaccinations if demand is insufficient to utilize vaccine
supplies fully). Since the early 1980., medical supervision has
practically ceased for lack of transportation and budgetary credits for
fuel and vehicle operations and maintenance. Training programs have been
developed but these have not been offered at a scale sufficient to upgrade
the skills of all the MoH staff delivering health services. Furthermore,
retraining activities have been delivered in a fragmented manner which is
both costly and inefficient. Finally, the purchasing power of civil
service salaries has fallen rapidly and significantly: estimates show that
by 1988 the salary levels of entry-level paramedics had fallen to about 20-
25% of their 1975 levels and were insufficient to support the subsistence
requirements of a small family. The drop in the purchasing power of higher
categories of staff is estimated to be relatively greater. The proposed
project would support part of the incremental operating costs of actions
within the purview of the MoH, such as training programs, the payment of
stipends to cover the out-of-pocket expenses of training and supervision
activities. A civil service reform program is being developed separately
which would address these and other broader staff performance and
motivation issues.
2.34.       Availability of Drugs and Medical Supplies and User Charges.
Budgetary constraints have caused the provision of drugs in MoH facilities
to fall to levels that, as noted, compromise the credibility and
effectiveness of these facilities. The MoH has taken the following steps
to address this problem. Starting in 1990, it has procured its drugs and
medical supplies on the basis of broad-based international tendering,
specifying its drug requirements in generic form whenever possible. These
measures have almost halved the unit cost of its supplies. Combined with a
doubling of the MoH's drug and supplies budget and increased support from
the international community, the availability of drugs and supplies in the
public health system should increase about several fold during 1991. In
the longer term, the government is developing and testing options for
pricing the delivery of drugs in public health facilities and for
encouraging voluntary insurance schemes, notably through community pharmacy
associations. Under the malaria control program, the MoH built cost
recovery of primary treatment into the emergency malaria control program in
view of the relatively modest cost to individuals of purchasing the
required amounts of chloroquine and the very heavy financial implications
to the state of systematically treating all malaria episodes. Experience
L.' date has confirmed the willingness of users to pay for chloroquine
treatment; the state's ability to manage the cost recovery flows remains to
be demonstrated. Studies are being undertaken to revive a former system of
allowing MoH personnel to charge user fees for "private" medical
consultations and to update the structure and level of hospital fees
whenever adequate service delivery conditions can be ensured. A priority
of the proposed project would be to support further study of mechanisms to
promote the availability of essential drugs at internationally competitive
prices and beneficiary participation in the design and financing of health
services offered by the MoH to improve efficiency and accountability.



- 14 -
2.35.       Condition of Health Facilities.  Because of budgetary
constraints and administrative weaknesses, the maintenance of buildings and
equipment has been excessively deferred and replacement investments held
back, the results being a serious dilapidation of facilities and a lack of
essential equipment and furnishings at all levels of the health system.
The problem is particularly serious at the referral levels which often are
unable to carry out their functions owing to the lack of usable equipment
and of supplies. In the case of PHC clinics constructed by the local
population, falling income levels and deteriorating service standards have
also led to the neglect of maintenance. UNICEF has made a major effort
over the past five years to reequip facilities with basic kits of technical
equipment, but much remains to be done. At the infrastructural level, a
labor-intensive project of the International Labor Organization (ILO) has
developed and successfully tested an approach to execute small construction
projects relying on local contractors. This project is being expanded and
assimilated into a regional planning and development project for
implementing small-scale development projects that would effectively
rehabilitate basic health facilities. The proposed project would support a
limited program of facility rehabilitation/upgrading which would be
focussed on: (i) facilities to be used as training centers under the
project; (ii) seriously dilapidated basic health facilities where
integrated MCH/FP services are to be introduced; and (iii) referral centers
to enable them to perform the diagnostic and treatment services needed to
backstop the peripheral facilities. Training and increased budgetary
allocations for O&M for buildings would also be provided under the proposed
project. In addition, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) is the
lead agency in preparing a project for multi-donor financing which could be
mobilized and/or subcontracted to rehabilitate health facilities.
2.36.       Public lEC.  To date, the government has been catutious in its
use of the media to inform and educate the public on health, nutrition and
sanitation issues and to disseminate government policies and strategies to
key decision-makers. The factors cited include a fear that messages will
be interpreted as propaganda or presented as poor substitutes Tor the
delivery of health services. There is now agreement that MoH needs to take
a more active role in (a) disseminating information on critical health and
population issues, particularly with respect to the detection and referral
to medical authorities of the early symptoms of communicable diseases and
overcoming old habits that are no longer appropriate or efficient; and (b)
mobilizing oommunities and local governments in preventing and treating
illness and in promoting health, welfare and self-reliance. The project
would support IEC programs aimed at communicating relevant public health
messages and mobilizing the support of professional and community groups
and associations for the government's 1.ealth policies and programs.
D. Health Sector Policy and the Health Sector Proaram
2.37.       Health Policy.  In 1976 Madagascar was one of the first
countries to adopt a PHC approach to the development of its health system,
placing an emphasis on the provision of basic preventive health services,
on reducing the urban bias of the health system by concentrating new
construction and deployment of newly recruited staff in rural areas and on
training of paramedics to deliver services with community participation.
Between 1977 and 1985, the MoH achieved a doubling of the number of medical
and paramedical staff through the training of some 730 doctors, 1,955
nurses and midwives, 300 laboratory technicians and 1,400 health aides. At
the same time, some 1,300 PHC centers (CSSP) were constructed through
community participation. The resulting access and health worker ratios,
which compare favorably with the averages for Sub-Saharan Africa, endow
Madagascar with a solid infrastructure base for delivering health services.



- 15 -
In addition, the government made a major effort to modernize, extend and
re-equip an inadequate hospital network.
2.38        These programs failed to improve health conditions as intended
largely because the government was not able to allocate sufficient
budgetary resources to operate the expanding health system efficiently and
because it was reluctant, on sustainability grounds, to turn to external
financial sources to fill this funding gap. Between 1975 and 1985, despite
the priority accorded to health, total budgetary allocations to the MoH
fell from about 9.2 percent of all government expenditures to about 6.5
percent and, over the period, the purchasing power of MoH's recurrent
budget fell by almost 3.5 percent each year. By 1988, the government had
arrested the declining trends, and there was improvement in 1990 and 1991.
For 1991, the total agreed public expenditure program (PEP) for health,
including external aid, is projected at FMG 74.5 billion (US$49.7 million
using the exchange rate prevailing in September 1990) or 7.6 percent of the
total PEP and 1.4 percent of projected Gross Domestic Product (GDP) (Annex
12). Of this total, 45 percent is donor financed. The MoH share of the
domestic investment budget and recurrent budget are 5 percent and 7 percent
respectively. The budgetary constraints experienced during the 1970s and
1980s have also hurt the composition of the MoH's operating budgets; the
share taken up by salaries rose from about 48 percent in 1975 to almost 70
percent of the Ministry's total recurrent budget by 1985, squeezing out
other non-salary items. As a result, tha provision of health services has
progressively deteriorated. Budget allocations for drugs and medical
supplies remained constant in current FMG terms during the last decade: in
1989, the purchasing power of this budget line was about 10 percent of its
level in 1980. In particular, MoH purchases of drugs from its 1989 regular
budget amounted to about US$0.07 per capita, less than 10 percent of the
minimum drug expenditures needed to support a PHC system. Drugs acquired
from other sources, including in kind grants, brought the total supply for
both the PHC and the hospital programs to about US$0.25 per capita. As a
result, drugs were severely rationed and health facilities were often
unable to deliver services 8 to 10 months of the year. In 1991, the
situation is expected to improve considerably: on a per capita basis, the
MoH will be acquiring about US$0.60 in drugs, of which about US$0.14 from
its regular operating budget.
2.39.       Drucq Policy.  Private importers have played the major, if not
dominant, role in supplying drugs. Before independence, the health service
purchased its supplies through the local importers. Starting in the 1970s,
budgetary constraints and subsequently foreign exchange shortages led the
government first to allow the MoH to procure its requirements directly from
the national and international markets and then to exercise ex-ante
controls over private importation in an effort to allocate scarce foreign
exchange to the most needed products. Pricing within the sector involved a
system of fixed margins at both the wholesale and retail levels, applied to
the landed costs of imported items or the ex-factory price of domestically
produced ones. As part of the trade reforms undertaken under the
structural adjustment program, the government has rescinded all import
control and pricing regulations on drugs and applied the minimum 10% import
duty tariff to all imports of manufactured drugs and their active
ingredients. In practice, these measures have not contributed to
increasing competition in drug distribution or to a significant lowering of
retail prices as pharmaceutical importers and distributors have elected, on
a voluntary basis, to continue earlier importation and pricing practices.
2.40.       Drug procurement, distribution and prescription practices in
the public sector have undergone major change over the past five years and
now conform closely to the essential drug policies recommended by WHO.
These policies involve rigorous selection of a limited range of drugs for
each type of health facility, their procurement in bulk and under



-16 -
international non-proprietary labels (generics) based on international
bidding, and training of medical and paramedical staff in standard
treatment protocols that ensure the most rational and economical use of the
drugs. As previously cited, the application of these procedures has
resulted in a halving of the unit cost of the purchasing of drugs and
supplies and larger savings in the average cost of treating classes of
disease episodes. Concomitantly, the MoH has developed systems, currently
at the demonstration phase, of village pharmacies that dispense the
essential drugs prescribed by MoH personnel. The drugs supplied to village
pharmacies are drawn from the MoH's list of essential drugs and are sold on
a cost-plus basis; as & result, prices are a fraction of the equivalent
brand-name drugs sold in private pharmacies and outlets. The MoH has
received technical and financial assistance, including balance of payments
support for drug importa, from the Swiss cooperation, UNICEF, WHO and the
EEC for these programs.
2.41.       Health sector Program (HSPI.  The government proposes to focus
its health sector development strategy on rehabilitating the public heaith
system to enable it to deliver the basic services needed to meet the health
needs of the population, with an emphasis on treating the most common
endemic disease episodes and on improving the survival of infants, children
and pregnant women. The MoH prepared a national HSP with assistance from
experts made available under multi-lateral and bilateral technical
cooperation programs and externally funded consultants, including under the
IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The HSP was presented at an
informal donors meeting in Antananarivo in September 1990 as the basis for
the PEP and aid mobilization efforts. It is described in the following
chapter (paras. 3.1 to 3.28) and constitutes the technical and financial
basis for the project.
E. Bank Involvement
2.42.       Bank involvement in the health sector started with a Public
Health and Nutrition (PHN) sector review undertaken in 1986 (Report
No.4664-MAG of July 7, 1987). The issues identified and the
recommendations made are still valid. They were discussed with government
officials, including from the MoH, and served to identify the objectives of
the project. These issues, and related social sector issues, became a
major focus of the adjustment dialogue starting in 1987. A social sector
policy statement, a Social Action Plan and the preparation of a health
sector strategy were undertakings of the Public Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC) approved in 1988. More specifically, the PSAC Letter of Development
Policy spelled out the government's intention to accelerate implementation
of the expanded program on immunization (EPI), to launch an emergency
malaria control program, to strengthen private delivery of FP services and
to introduce pilot nutrition/food security activities targeted at the most
needy. Implementation of the Social Action Program was supported in 1988
through the multi-donor EMSAP project which included malaria control, FP
(through FISA, a local NGO) and food security components. Further
improvements in the sectoral policy framework and in the responsiveness and
efficiency of health service provision have been achieved through reviews
of the 1989 and 1990 PEPs for health, the first of which reviews was issued
as Report No. 7803-MAG on December 20, 1989. In 1990, the MoH banefitted
from a FMG 3 billion supplemental budgetary allocation, made possible when
France canceled part of its public debt. In the education sector, the Bank
adopted a similar development approach which led to the sector
reinforcement project (Report No. 8026-HAG of 1990).
2.43.       Lessons from Experience.  The design of the proposed project
was developed in order to support the MoH in adjusting and implementing its
PEP while avoiding pitfalls that have constrained other sector projects



- 17 -
Srom attaining their objectives. As a result the following principles and
approaches were adopted:
(a)   the project was articulated around a clear definition of sectoral
objectives and priority strategies, a feature that has been flagged
in several health project evaluations; in particular it was designed
to follow up and expand on the embryonic sector policy statement in
the PSAC. This basis for the proposed project is confirmed through
the letter of sector policy (Annex IV). A detailed matrix of
monitorablo project indicators will be agreed to during the first
(1992) annual work program review.
(b)   becautie our sector analysis highlighted a number of systemic iLmues
facing the delivery of basic health care, a broad seotoral approach
focussing on priority health needs was adopted, even though the
proposed project is the first freestanding operation in the sector.
This approach is alco consistent with the objective of strengthening
and reorienting the institutional capacity of the public health
system. In this endeavor, the project concept and preparation drew
heavily upon the experiences in designing, preparing and implementing
the education sector reinforcement project. It also benefitted from
negative experiences of other donors in the sector whereby attempts
to protect their "project" led to excessive fragmentation of the
overall sector program and inadequate coordination among interrelated
programs/projects.  Too often these efforts to sustain specific
health activities led to the creation of non-sustainable enclaves
within the health system that withered as soon as the external
financing source came to an end. The preparation of annual work
programs coupled with their presentation to a donors, meeting is
designed to promote better financial planning in the sector.
(c) the above considerations led to the design of an operation focussing
on an overall approach to getting essential services delivered rather
than on the design of a specific subset of priority activities
suitable for IDA financing. The relevance of the programmatic
approach was successfully tested in the design and implementation of
the malaria control program under the EISAP project. The improved
aid coordination attained and the greater sense of ownership that
resulted from an integrated management of the program were primary
considerations in the MoH's decision to prepare the present project
on a sectoral basis.
(d)   to further the NoN's sense of ownership of the HSP and the proposed
project, emphasis was placed on their involvement in all aspects of
program/project preparation and on a conservative recourse to
external consultants. The resulting preparation document, the HSP,
was almost entirely drafted by teams established within Mon and was
presented as the government's program at an informal donors' meeting
hold in September 1990 in Antananarivo.
(e)   the design and emphasis placed on the institutional reform component
incorporates several years' of preparatory work undertaken with
assistance from WHO and represents a consensus on the most realistic
means of engineering an integration at the operational level of the
priority health activities. A detalled report evaluating the design
and impact of on each year's activities is a monitorable feature of
the annual work program review.
(f) the organization and funding of comprehensive training programs for
the Non staff has been emphasized as a means for attaining project
objectives. A detailed implementation plan will be presented as a
component of the first (1992) annual work program review.



- 18 -
(g)   a mid-term review of the HSP and the IDA-financed project has been
included as a central feature of the project, providing a built-in
mechanism for re-examining strategies, costs and benefits and for
incorporating further policy adjustments and experience in project
implementation into the objectives, design and scope of the sectoral
program and the IDA-financed project during the second half of the
implementation period.
(h)   the institutional setup for implementing the project was designed
taking into account the early experiences of the education sector
project, the major issues flagged in the Country Implementation
Review (CIR) of December 1990, and relevant experiences of other
countries in reforming the structure and management of their health
system. In particular, to avoid the "enclave" effect, project
administration responsibility is being given to the staff agency
responsible for monitoring the execution of all external aid flows.
The project's financing and procurement arrangements are aligned on
the recommendations adopted in the 1990 CIR. An understanding has
also been reached that once standard bidding documents acceptable to
IDA have been approved by the Malagasy authorities, they will be used
for procurement under the project.
The specific lessons learned in designing the MCH/FP component are
presented in para. 3.12 below.
2.44.       Finally, the project has been designed to support the
government's structural adjustment program in several respects. It places
emphasis on improving the efficiency of public expenditures. By focussing
on primary health care services and endemic disease control programs, its
beneficiaries will include core poverty groups that have no other access to
essential health services. The introduction of FP services will help the
government implement its NPL in a timely manner. The annual work program
process will support the objectives of the ongoing budgetary reform.
Studies on the cost and financing of health services and on promoting the
role of individuals, communities and local governments in the provision and
management of health care will address from a sectoral viewpoint major
issues that are also being examined at the national and macroeconomic
levels, including resource mobilization, decentralization, local government
finances and popular empowerment.
III. THE HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. The Health Sector Proaram - ObJectives and Strat-ov
3.1.        The government's policies for the health sector for the period
1992-96 and its major strategies, programs and expected benefits are
summarized in a Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex IV and para.
7.2) and are embodied in the HSP that sets out the activities required for
attaining the following objectives:
(a)   Reducina mortality and morbidity by supporting (i) the delivery of a
basic package of PHC services to provide cost effective prevention
and treatment for the most common illnesses and health problems
through the national network of health facilities operated by MoH,
and (ii) the implementation of integrated disease control programs
for the most serious communicable diseases. These activities would
especially benefit the vulnerable groups composed of children and
women of reproductive age.



- 19 -
(b)   Moderating fertility levels, as advocated in the NPL, by integrating
on an accelerated basis FP activities into the basic package of PHC
services offered by MoH. These FP services are efficient and also
fully justified on health considerations. By 1997, it is planned
that at least 40 percent of Madagascar's couples would have
reasonable access to FP information and services, cons.stent with the
NPL objectives of reducing the total fertility rate.
(C)   Promoting the efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures
for health by (i) rationalizing/reforming the structure, management
and technical practices of the public health system, (ii) introducing
an efficient system of in-service training for all the staff of the
MoH, (iii) strengthening the aid coordination and administration
within the MoH; (iv) developing systems and procedures for mobilizing
private and NGO operators in the delivery of health care and
coordinating their efforts with public sector programs,
(v) introducing cost recovery mechanisms to generate popular
participation in financing public health programs, and
(vi) undertaking studies of key sectoral issues in order to prepare
future policy adjustments in the sector.
3.2.        The strategy underlying the HSP rests on principles that assign
priority to:
(a)   SuoRortina the existina oublic health sector system that offers the
largest and most extensive network of health facilities in Madagascar
that are staffed with appropriately trained personnel and are capable
of delivering basic services to two thirds of the total population on
a walk-in basis and to over four fifths of the population on an
outreach basis and through technical and managerial support of
community based initiatives.
(b)   Rehabilitating as a matter of priority: (i} delivery of PHC services
by the base of the Publ3c health system and (ii) the strenathenino of
national communicable diseases control proarams. The choice of these
activities reflects their potential for satisfying the basic health
needs of the population at least cost.  Concurrently, a program would
be undertaken to rehabilitate/upgrade intermediate and tertiary level
referral facilities to the minimum standards required to enable them
to carry out the diagnostic, treatment training functions needed to
support and lend credibility to the services provided at the primary
level of the health system.
(c)   Retraining the health personnel of the MoH through in-depth refresher
programs, short term training in specialized techniques and regular
in-service coaching by medical supervisors trained in training
techniques to enable these staff to carry out the HSP programs
efficiently and diligently.
(d)   Developing an internal management system by obiectives that delegates
responsibility and resources to the operational level, rewards
initiative and enforces accountability for the proper use of
resources.
(e)   Gradually recentering the role of the state in health care orovision
towards activities that share the nature of public goods and help to
provide access to basic health services for disadvantaged groups.
(f)   Consolidating assistance and cooperation proarams from external
donors and collaborating agencies around the HSP through a
strengthening of aid coordination mechanisms in the MoH and
development of new instruments of collaboration with actual and



- 20 -
potential providers of health services outside the public sector, in
particular the NGO.
B. The Bealth sector Program - Summary Description
33.         Over the period 1992-96, the HSP spells out the objectives,
strategies and activities of the priority disease prevention and management
programs and of a program of institutional reforms. These would includes
Disease Prevention and Manaqement
(a)   Communicable Diseases: establish and implement comprehensive disease
control programs for malaria, TB, STDs including AIDS, leprosy and
plague and develop a disease monitoring system to orient MOH
activities and evaluate disease control strategies and programs.
(b)   Maternal and Child Health Care/Family Planning: accelerate the
introduction/upgrading of FP services that will be offered as an
integral component of MCH care to about 550 MoH health facilities,
thereby increasing by 1997, the access to modern contraception
information and services to about 40 percent of the total target
population of women of reproductive age, including all those living
in urban areas where unmet demand for such services is greatest. To
reduce maternal and infant mortality, improved pre-, peri- and
postnatal care, including attended child delivery, would be offered
among the basic health services to be provided.
(C)   Primary Health Care: (i) strengthen the delivery throughout
Madagascar of a minimum package of PHC services including childhood
immunization (EPI), diarrheal disease and respiratory infection
control and health and nutrition education; (ii) restore the capacity
of intermediate and tertiary level health facilities to provide the
essential referral services needed to support and complement the
delivery of the minimum package of PHC services; and (iii) introduce
systems for beneficiary participation in financing the cost of
selected curative services.
Institutional Reform
(d)   Health District Management: design and implement the first phase of a
long-term program of institutional reform to: (i) progressively
restructure and strengthen the MoH's health delivery system;
(ii) improve the cost-effectiveness of service delivery by
strengthening management systems and procedures; and (iii) invite
greater community/popular participation in health program design and
implementation.
(e)   Planning and Programming: strengthen MoH's central systems and
procedures and its human resource base for: (i) sector planning,
programming, budgeting and evaluation, (ii) mobilizing and
coordinating aid flows and the contribution of cooperating agencies
in implementing the national health programs, (iii) developing and
providing in-service training and supervision; and (iv) providing
logistical support, including procurement and distribution of drugs
and medical supplies, health data collection and analysis, IEC
activities, and a minimum of maintenance of health facilities,
equipment and vehicles.



- 21 -
C.   The Health Sector Proaram - Detailed Description
3.4.        The key features of the HSP activities and their expected
outputs and outcomes are presented below; the areas to be strengthened and
new activities to be introduced are highlighted and described in greater
detail. (The f gures in parentheses are the total program costs).
a) Communicable Disease Control Programs (US$40 million)
3.5         Malaria Control Program (US$20 million).  The major objective
is to continue and expand the emergency malaria control program developed
in 1988, which received IDA support under the EMSAP project, into a fully
integrated treatment and prevention program incorporating regional
variations in program design where these are justified on technical and/or
cost-effectiveness grounds. Data collected since 1989 would be used for
this purpose. Other key features of the 1992-96 tranche of this program
are to: (a) improve MoH management, supervision and evaluation of the
malaria control activities carried out by village volunteers and of related
MoH drug supply and cost recovery mechanism3; (b) pursue, evaluate and
adapt vector control strategies and programs based on intra-domiciliary
spraying of insecticides; (c) develop and generalize efficient protocols
for monitoring and treating acute and drug-resistant cases of malaria;
(d) reactivate malaria prophylaxis for the high risk groups consisting of
pregnant women and children under 5; (e) support a program of applied
research and pilot activities on the acceptability and cost-effectiveness
of reducing transmission through the use of mosquito nets and treated
curtains, mosquito larva control, insect repellents and environmental
sanitation; (f) train a corps of malariologists; and (g) develop and
broadcast public information campaigns and promote programs to
sensitize/mobilize the professional, academic and research communities,
public officials and community leaders (para. 3.10). Technical inputs for
the design and management of the malaria control program, including the
services of a long-term international expert, are being provided by WHO and
would be complemented by evaluation activities carried out by the Disease
Monitoring Unit (para. 3.9).
3.6.        Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Procrams (US$4 million and
US$ 1 million respectively). The major objectives for each of these
programs are to: (a) treat fully all infectious cases detected through
regular outpatient visits or through referrals to MoH clinics;
(b) generalize by 1996 the use of short-course polychemotherapy for the
treatment of infectious cases in all MoH clinics and collaborating
agencies; and (c) encourage NGOs and private sector institutions to adopt
the national treatment protocols, notably through the provision of
subsidized drugs for collaborating agencies, including NGOs. Other program
objectives are to strengthen technical coordination and data exchange among
the MoH, private and NGO netviorks and specialized institutions active in TB
and leprosy treatment and to train a corps of TB and leprosy specialists.
Protection against TB and leprosy will continue to be provided by including
delivery of the BCG vaccine to all children at birth in the EPI and of BCG
boosters to primary school children under school health programs. France,
WHO, the Inatitut Pasteur and the Institut Raoul Follereau are providing
technical inputs.
3.7.        STDs and AIDS (US$10 million).  The major objective is to
deliver an integrated package of activities to: (a) educate the public
about the dangers, transmission and treatment of STDs, including AIDS; (b)
carry out AIDS prevention and monitoring programs aimed at high-risk
population groups; and (c) generalize the treatment of STDs as part of an
overall campaign to contain a possible AIDS epidemic. Technical expertise
in disease management and diagnosis is being provided by WHO, European



- 22 -
Development Fund (EDP), GTZ of Germany and France, which are also the major
funders of this program.
3.8.        Plague Control Program (US$3 million).  The major objectives
are to: (a) develop a better understanding of the disease dynamics in the
host animal reservoir and of the process and risks of transmission to
humans; (b) provide for better detection, monitoring and treatment of human
plague infections; (c) implement cost-effective flea and rodent control
measures in localized areas where human populations are at high risk of
contracting the disease, including the use of pesticides and raticides, in
accordance with WHO recommendations, in the principal areas of plague
endemicity (Ambositra-Fianarantsoa); and (d) develop and promote a program
of preventive activities, including environmental sanitation and public
education cam.paigns (para. 3.10) in the principal areas infected with the
pl asu. Technical expertise on disease management and applied research
would be drawn from the Institut Pasteur and WHO. Implementation of the
disease control and prevention programs would closely involve the
sanitation departments of the municipalities of Antananarivo, Ambositra and
Fianarantsoa and possibly of other cities in the event of a plague
outbreak. The program would be supported (outside of the HSP) by the
labor-intensive urban sanitation programs being developed with the support
of the World Food Program.
3.9.        Disease Monitoring System (US$1 million).  The main objectives
are to develop a central data bank and a capacity for analyzing health
statistics, designing and carrying out epidemiological surveys and applied
research programs in order to reduce the risk of epidemics and evaluate the
impact of health programs. The program would initially focus on the
principal communicable diseases. Other objectives include developing a
corps of public health epidemiologists and fuller mobilization of local
research establishments, particularly the Malagasy branch of the Institut
Pasteur. Technical leadership and operational support would be provided by
France.
3.10.       Information, Education and Communication (US$1 million).
The main objective would be to equip the central IEC unit and so provide it
with a budget to prepare and disseminate public health messages relating to
the symptoms, appropriate medical attention and prevention measures to be
taken against the principal communicable diseases.
b) Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning (US$7 million)
3.11        The major objectives of the FP Droaram are the introduction and
strengthening of FP services in MoH facilities on an accelerated basis
responding to the government's objectives for 1996 of: (a) reducing
maternal and child mortality by 25 percent; and (b) providing access to FP
services to at least 40 percent of the women of reproductive age (15-49
years old) and increasing the number of users of FP services provided by
the MoH from about 10,000 to 25,000. This component also seeks to improve
coordination among the MOH and other providers of FP services, including
NGOs and enterprises. The above objectives would be pursued by measures
to: (a) strengthen the institutional capability of the MoH at all levels of
the health care system to deliver quality FP services; (b) integrate FP
services into MCH activities at the field level; (c) assist the MOH in
developing an effective IEC program; and (d) encourage NGO participation in
program development and implementation. Technical leadership and
operational support would be provided jointly by UNFPA, WHO and IDA with
close coordination with UNICEF, UNDP and EDF for the re-equipment and
rehabilitation of the facilities selected to offer FP services.
3.12.       The activities to be carried out incorporate the lessons
learned from the pilot Safe Motherhood project. They are based on the



- 23 -
following principles: (a) strengthening of the provision of basic MCH
services and of corresponding equipment and supplies as a prerequisite for
introducing FP services into any MoH facility; and (b) delivery of MCH/FP
services as an integrated package of services by MoH staff. During the
first year of the project, FP programs would be extended to the largest MCH
clinics in Antananarivo where the greatest demand exists. In the following
three years, the program would be extended to provide a full range of
information and services at all MOH referral facilities at the provincial
and health district (Fivondranana) levels.
3.13.       The rationale for giving priority to the extension of FP
services in urban areas is the following. First, for reasons of cost-
effectiveness, priority should be given to introducing FP coverage in areas
where the largest pool of unmet demand exists and where the health
facilities are capable of serving the greatest number of potential
beneficiaries. The capital area of Antananarivo and, to a lesser extent,
the other provincial capitals and Antsirabe meet these criteria, as current
coverage by NGO and enterprise programs of the at-risk populations there is
presently modest, despite survey results pointing to high levels of unmet
demand. Second, since the program seeks to introduce new services with
correspondingly new skills and attitudes, expected of existing MoH service
providers, the technical efficiency in training, supervision and monitoring
of activities would be facilitated by introducing services in areas where
physical access hence supervision are not a problem. Third, the selected
referral clinic in each medical district would be able to serve as a
demonstration center for other district staff, thereby facilitating the
decentralization of the training programs and the designation of local
trainers.
3.14.       Strengthening the MoH's institutional capability to design,
deliver and evaluate FP programs at the central and provincial levels is a
key consideration for satisfactory implementation. It will call for the
development of a specialized training capacity to introduce the MoH staff,
about 280 doctors and 700 paramedics, to FP services and their proper
delivery as well as for the development of FP modules in the integrated
training programs to be provided under the health district management (HDM)
program (para. 3.22 and 3.23). At the central level, the program calls for
in-country and, where necessary, overseas training of DMP staff in program
design and evaluation, including curriculum development and preparation of
training materials. It would also support an assessment of training needs
and the preparation of a long-term training plan for PHC providers at all
levels of the MoH system. Training programs for the direct FP service
providers will be organized at the provincial level and are covered under
the HDM program.
3.15.       Under the program, FP services would be integrated on an
accelerated basis into the PHC activities of about 550 MoH facilities which
would enable about 40 percent of the women of reproductive age to access FP
services by 1997. This ambitious program would involve: (a) the
introduction of a revised program of activities for each concerned facility
in which referrals between services are developed in a manner permitting
consulting mothers and children to receive the full range of services
during each visit; (b) the development and adaptation of clear job
descriptions for FP health personnel; and (c) re-equipment and
refurbishing/rehabilitation of each facility to the minimal standards for
service delivery, based on the principles of the client's right to privacy,
adequacy of waiting areas, availability of proper equipment, medical
supplies, drugs and contraceptives, and a positive (receptive and
supportive) attitude on the part of health personnel.
3.16.       The introduction of FP services into health facilities would
also require a notable strengthening of the supervision and monitoring



-24 -
mechanisms. The program includes the preparation of an integrated
supervision checklist and supervision program for all MCH/FP activities and
the key logistical support functions for contraceptives, drugs and
supplies. It also calls for regular visits by central and provincial staff
to monitor end evaluate the implementation of the FP component. To
evaluate this program, a strengthening of the health information syatem
(para. 3.9 and 3.27) would be undertaken and used to provide timely and
pertinent data on FP activities to health facility managers, provincial and
central health officials.
3.17        To ensure that the minimum conditions are met for integrating
FP services into MCH activities, a program to rehabilitate clinics would be
undertaken to bring those that have suffered from extensive deferred
maintenance up to minimum operating standards for service delivery and, in
the case of facilities that are to serve as training grounds for MoH staff,
to appropriate training standards. During the first year, 20 of MOH's
urban clinics in the Greater Antananarivo area would be covered.
Subsequently, some 25 to 50 clinics would be rehabilitated annually, with
priority given to the facilities serving the urban population and to
facilities that could serve as training/demonstration sites. The
rehabilitation program is suitable for execution using the labor-intensive
methodology developed by UNDP/ILO and provision have been made to permit
smaller and more dispersed works to be contracted out to an ILO executed
labor-intensive construction project. The scope of work and related
equipment lists and the staff training schedules have been developed in a
manner to permit these clinics to demonstrate how a fully integrated
package of PHC and safe motherhood activities is to be correctly delivered.
3.18.       A broad IEC program addressing FP and safe motherhood issues
would be developed and delivered. A major focus would be to reinforce the
health education measages and activities delivered at the health facilities
and in the community, as well as to train field staff in IEC (interpersonal
and group communication) skills. The program would include the acquisition
of IEC equipment and materials at the central and provincial levels, as
well as the contracting of expert advice and consulting services. In
addition, the possibilities for associating FISA closely with the
development of the MoH's IEC program would be pursued.
c) Primary Health Care (US$43 million)
3.19.       The HSP proposals for strengthening the PHC services to be
offered by the MoH are central to the government's sector rehabilitation
program and were developed as an extension and intensification of the
existing PHC programs. For the period 1992-96, priority will be given to:
(i) improving the coverage of the EPI program to reach a complete vaccinal
coverage of at least 80 percent of children under one year of age and
strengthening the MoH's logistical supply system, parutcularly the cold
chain; (ii) generalizing appropriate management of diarrhoea episodes,
both within the MoH health facilities and at the community and household
level, through early administration of oral rehydration salts to prevent
dehydration and referral to medical authorities of non-responsive cases and
cases presenting symptoms of complications; (iii) treating respiratory
infections, including IEC campaigns to better inform the population of
symptoms requiring medical attention; (iv) strengthening the pre-, peri-
and post-natal health care for mothers and their infants and the attended
child delivery programs to reduce the rates of maternal and infant
mortality and morbidity; (v) strengthening of systems to improve thr
availability and accessibility in the public health system of the eusential
drugs needed to deliver the PHC program, including support of an essential
drug distribution and cost recovery system based and the promotion of
village pharmacies; (vi) rehabilitation and re-equipment of basic health
facilities to meet minimum operational standards; and (vii) development of



- 25 -
health and nutrition education messages and IEC/outreach activities to
encourage individual and community participation in the design and
management of health programs at the health district level. This program
of activities, into which the FP program described above will be
integrated, has been developed with inputs from several donors active in
the provision of PHC in Madagascar, including UNICEF, WHO, GTZ, Switzerland
and a number of international and local NGOs that collaborate with the MoH
in delivering these services. Experience gained in the initial
implementation of the cost recovery and village pharmacy activities would
be examined in 1993 in the context of a mid-term review of the HSP.
3.20.       In parallel with the program to strengthen the delivery of the
minimum package of PHC services at peripheral health facilities, a program
to rehabilitate/upgrade intermediate and tertiary level health facilities
to provide the more specialized diagnostic/treatment functions referred to
them by the peripheral (outpatient) health facilities. This strengthening
of the referral system is needed to complement and to confer credibility in
the PHC system. During the first year of the program, emphasis will be
placed on completing a detailed survey and inventory of these facilities
and on fine tuning building, equipment and operating cost standards, job
descriptions/task assignments, performance norms and ex-post evaluation
procedures. The implementation phase would start during the second year of
program implementation.
d) Institutional Strenathening (US$10 million)
3.21.       Health District Management (US$6 million).  The MoH has
undertaken to implement a far-ranging reform of its health service delivery
system, starting with the peripheral facilities delivering PHC services.
In the first phase, the reforms would consist of: (a) defining a minimum
package of activities to be carried out by all primary level facilities in
order to implement the government's HSP; and (b) developing systems and
procedures for planning, programming, budgeting and monitoring health
activities and evaluating their impact at the level of each health
district. During 1991-92, emphasis would be placed on training health
district officers, medical inspectors and provincial services. They would
prepare, for each health district, a needs assessment to determine service
delivery priorities. Based on these assessments, detailed operational
program and budget to implement the HSP would be established and agreed
upon. Emphasis in subsequent years would be placed on: (a) developing and
providing operational support for an integrated training and supervision
system as a tool for managing the delivery of quality health services
responsive to expressed needs and raising the skills, attitudes and
practices of MoH personnel to desired standards and (b) beginning the
reorientation of activities of health facilities and a redeployment of
their health personnel. A pilot program to test innovative management
approaches to strengthen ties to local governments and community groups has
recently been approved by the UNDP and will be executed by the WHO.
3.22.       Development of an efficient, flexible and integrated system of
training and supervision is critical to the MoH's ability to carry out the
institutional reform in phases. The proposed system, called the health
district management program (HDM), was developed with inputs from WHO and
UNICEF and it has been successfully implemented in other Sub-Saharan
African countries, would support the preparation of technical, service
delivery and facility management modules by the relevant divisions of the
MoH with technical assistance from several donors, including WHO, UNICEF
and UNFPA. The modules would be reviewed by a committee of subject matter
specialists, field practitioners and educators/communicators and would be
field-tested. Delivery of the training programs would be undertaken by the
six provincial services with support from headquarters and the regional
medical inspectors. Assessments would also be carried out to evaluate the



- 26 -
effectiveness of the training programs and to recommend additions, changes
and deletions. In addition to this general integrated training program,
specific training programs to meet special needs would be undertaken: the
training program for MoH staff called on to deliver FP services for the
first time and training programs in laboratory examination techniques are
two examples of the specialized programs to be delivered.
3.23.       The central training unit would be strengthened and its staff
trained and a core training unit would be set up in each province. All
together some 80 trainers would be trained and operational support would be
provided for their activities. This strategy of decentralizing the
training function to the 6 provinces and 36 medical regions and of linking
it to the supervision function was adopted to emphasize the practical
aspects of delivering quality services under prevailing field conditions.
The ongoing objectives of the training program would be to upgrade the
skills and service levels needed to deliver an integrated package of PHC
services, including FP. These training needs would have to be coordinated
with the needs of other programs, including EPI, diarrheal disease control,
communicable disease control, health and nutrition education, and
priorities established regarding the number and scope of the training
modules to be delivered.   Details of the central and provincial training
programs are presented in Annex VIII.
3.24.       The health district program also calls for a strengthening of
the logistical support systems essential to the operation of the health
system, including the estimation of drug and medical supplies,
strengthening the drug and supply distribution systems, vehicle, building
and equipment maintenance, and training of MoH staff in related techniques
and skills. Additional funds needed to maintain rehabilitated buildings
and equipment would be allocated to the medical district offices.
3.25.       The MoH Planning and Procrammine (US$4 million).  The major
objective is to strengthen the technical and intraministerial coordinating
capacity of the DEPP by: (a) carrying out studies and commissioning applied
research to underpin its policy analysis and formulation and organizing
seminars, workshops and publications to support their findings;
(b) strengthening the internal procedures for planning, programming,
budgeting and public expenditure monitoring, including the preparation of
consolidated annual accounts of actual expenditures and outcomes;
(c) rationalizing the collection of health sector data and introducing
project/program evaluation methodologies; and (iv) strengthening the
procedures for donor coordination and project administration and enhancing
staffing to improve the MoH's mobilization and utilization of external and
domestic resources.
3.26.       A series of studies would be undertaken to extend the coverage
of the HSP to the entire sector, e.g., including the health programs and
activities of other ministries and private and NGO agencies. These studies
and their recommendations would be addressed in the context of the mid-term
HSP and project review and conclusions would be incorporated into an
updated sector policy and strategy statement that would, inter alia,
address developments in the role of the state in guarding the nation's
public health, in promoting social equity and efficiency in health service
delivery, and in delivering and financing basic and specialized health
services. The major issues these studies would address include: (a) the
role of non-government health care providers in policy and program
formulation, implementation and evaluation and the development of
coordinating mechanisms and fora; (b) the scope within the public sector
for broadening the financing base of public sector health programs through
the introduction of cost recovery from beneficiaries, the promotion of
community participation and the development of social security and health
insurance schemes, as well as the scope for using these schemes to help



- 27 -
contain health system costs; (c) the formulation of a national
phar.aaceutical policy, including the role of the state in regulating the
production, distribution and sale of drugs and medical products and (d)
issues in the basic training of medical and paramedical staff in order to
make them more responsive to the skills profile required. The scope of
these studies and applied research programs, as well as their financing
plan, would be firmed up during the first two annual work program reviews.
3.27.       The design and operation of a streamlined, timely and efficient
health information system is a priority that the HSP proposes to address.
The new system would be based on analysis of the periodic activity and
epidemiological reports submitted by all health facilities and on small
scale sample surveys to research specific issues not covered by standard
reports. The information system would be tied into and used in managing
the health district and the disease monitoring systems. The resulting
analyses would help in evaluating the impact and efficiency of the HSP and
its component activitieu.
3.28.       The HSP also calls for a strengthening of the MoH systems for
mobilizing, coordinating and administering donor funds, including support
from NGOs.  This task would involve systems development and staff training
in forecasting, processing, recording and reporting of resource use in the
health sector, as well as operational support for the activities of the
Projects Monitoring Unit (CSP) reporting to the DGS in administering aid
agreements.
D. The Project - Obiectives and Description
3.29.       Obiectives.  The proposed project has been designed to provide,
within agreed parameters, flexible support towards implementation of the
HSP over the five year period 1992-96. The program inputs to be financed
under the IDA Credit have been identified, costed and appraised. They
would complement and complete the technical and financial support that has
been or is being mobilized from other donors. Putting all these resources
to best use would require periodic adjustment or fine-tuning of the
relevant parts of the HSP and their financing plans. The project would
consequently foster the development of institutional mechanisms for
promoting and coordinating the contributions by local and foreig.. _encies,
both governmental and private/NGO, in carrying out the HSP.
3.30.       As a design feature, the MoH has aareed, during each vear of
execution. to undertake the following actions: (a) prepare an annual work
program which would: (i) establish and budget all the activities to be
carried out for the execution of the HSP during the following year, all
activities being consistent with the Letter of Sector Development Policy;
(ii) identify and cost all the activities to be carried out under the
Project, including a detailed list of items to be financed under the Credit
during the following year; (iii) propose a detailed financing plan for the
activities referred to above; and (iv) include a repcrt on the
implementation of previous year's annual work program; (b) arrange a
meeting of donors interested in financing activities in the health sector
in Madagascar, including IDA, to review the draft annual work program for
the next year and to finalize the financing plan therefor; and (c) submit
to the Association the final annual work program for the following year,
which shall be in such scope and in such detail as shall be satisfactory to
the Association not later than September 30 (para.7.5 (a)). In addition,
the review of the annual work program for 1992 would include agreement on
an overall financing plan for the public expenditure program for MoH over
the period 1992-96 and on monitorable process and outcome indicators for
monitoring performance in implementing the HSP. Under these conditions IDA
would only finance work programs it judged satisfactory. The MoH also



-28 -
agreed to submit an acceptable annual work Program for 1992 as a condition
for credit effectiveness (Para 7.3. {c)} and to Present by September 30 of
each vear. a public expenditure Program for the following year.
incorporating the expenditures under the annual work oroaram and acceptable
to the Association (para. 7.5 (b)L.
3.31        Mid-Term Review.  In order to establish whether the strategies
being followed are producing the expected results and to update the HSP to
reflect policy and program modifications arising out of the program of
studies to be undertaken under the project, the MoH aareed to undertake by
June 30. 1994 a mid-term review of thie imylementation of the HSP and of the
proiect, to exchanae views with IDA on the conclusions and recommenda Uons
arising out of the review and take all necessary measures to remedy any
Droblem and implement improvemelts identified (para. 7.5 (c)l. This review
would include: (i) an assessment as to whether the strategies being
followed are producing the expected results; (ii) a proposal for the
government's pharmaceutical policy; (iii) and a proposal for the
development of the non-public sector activities in the health sector;
furnish IDA with a report on the mid-term review, exchange views with IDA
on the report and take all necessary measures to remedy any problem that
has been identified during such mid-term review. This review and the
preparation of annual work programs would permit the MoH to adjust the
profile of its sector rehabilitation program to developments in resource
availability, to the relative priority of health needs and to changes in
its own implementation capacity.
3.32.       Proiect Description.  The project would support the
implementation of the HSP on the basis of the financing needs confirmed
through the final annual work programs to be submitted to IDA, after their
review by a donors' meeting. The proceeds of the proposed credit would be
primarily directed (about US$22 million) to the malaria and plague control,
communicable disease monitoring, MCH/family planning and institutional
development programs for which IDA would be taking the role of lead donor.
The balance of the credit (about US$9 million) would be allocated to
complement financing of other HSP components for which other donor agencies
are taking the lead (see para. 4.15).
3.33.       The IDA credit would finance the following programs and
categories of expenditures:
A.    Communicable Disease Control Program
(a) Rehabilitation of the Direction de la Lutte contre les Maladies
Transmissibles (DLMT) facilities, including the specialized disease
control laboratories, to standards required for the improvement of
their performance;
(b) Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies required for carrying
out of disease control programs, including vector control campaigns,
monitoring the disease vectors and supervision of field activities;
(c) Studies on control methodologies, disease patterns and vectors,
including program evaluations and applied research, in order to adapt
the strategy and the design of the control programs for greater
efficiency and effectiveness;
(d) Training of DLMT staff and MoH personnel in referral health
facilities in specialized diagnostic and treatment techniques, and of
village agents for malaria diagnosis, treatment and referrals and
cost recovery;



29 -
(e) Public information activities, including use of media to broadcast
public health messages;
B.    Maternal and Child Health Care/Family Plannina Prooram
(a) Rehabilitation and upgrading of about 115 MoH health facilities to
minimum standards for the delivery of adequate primary health care
services, including family planning and attended child deliveries
and, in the case of about 20 of these facilities, the upgrading would
be undertaken to standards allowing them to serve as training centers
for MoH staff.
(b) Provision of equipment, contraceptives and supplies for about 550 MoH
health facilities in which family planning services are to be
undertaken or upgraded;
(c) Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies for the family planning
unit of the Direction de la M6decine PrAventive (DMP), including
equipment for public information activities, in order to monitor,
supervise and evaluate implementation the family planning program and
to adapt program design and scope;
(d) Studies on: (i) the direct and indirect determinants of fertility and
reproductive behaviors; (ii) the acceptability and effectiveness of
family planning methods and delivery systems and (iii) infant, child
and maternal mortality rates for program evaluation;
(e) Development, testing and provision of training materials in family
planning for MoH personnel and for training the trainers; training of
medical practitioners and paramedics in family planning techniques;
training of DMP staff in specialized family planning and public
information techniques;
(f) Public information activities, including use of media to broadcast
MCH and FP messages.
C.    Primary Health Care Prooram
(a) Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies for carrying out the
minimum package of primary health care activities, including
immunizations and diarrheal disease control, respiratory infections,
pre-, peri- and post-natal health care, health education and
nutrition monitoring activities;
(b) Rehabilitation of facilities and provision of vehicles, equipment and
supplies necessary for the improvement of the referral activities of
intermediate and national (tertiary level) medical referral centers;
(c) Provision of an initial stock of essential drugs to be offered for
sale through the MoH, as part of the treatment prescribed by health
agents authorized by the MoH.
D.    Institutional Development of Health District Manacement and of ofoH
Planning and Programmino Capabilities
(a) Provision of vehicles, equipment, supplies to strengthen MoH, and in
particular DEPP's capacity to supervise and evaluate a revised system
of managing health care delivery based on the health district
concept;
(b) Training and operational support of central, provincial and district
MoH officers to provide staff in MoHo' PHC facilities with an



- 30 -
integrated package of basic training and regular in-service training
programs;
(c) Studies to develop proposals and evaluate projects/programs relating
to the major sectoral issues, iacluding studies on or for: (i) cost
and financing of health services; (ii) cost recovery mechanisms;
(iii) the national pharmaceutical policy; (iv) hospital management
and rehabilitation; (v) strengthening the role of providers other
than MoH in implementing national health policies and (vi) adaptation
of health manpower training programs.
3.34.       In order to ensure that the conditions required for effective
and efficient use of IDA proceeds would prevail, the government agreed to
take the following actions:
(a)   The communicable disease control programs:  the MoH will open by
January 31, 1992. the Technical Committees on TB and Leprosy to all
participating varties and will convene reaular meetinas (para. 7.5
(d)).
(b)   The FP program: to ensure that project-financed equipment, vehicles
and specialized materials are directed only to facilities able to
support integrated MCH/FP activities, the MoH will provide evidence
in the context of the annual work program that the facilities to
benefit from such eauipment have been previously rehabilitated to
minimum operating atandards (para. 7.5 (a) (v)); it will also
appoint, as a condition of credit effectiveness, one physician two
midwives and one I.E.C. specialist within the FP unit of DSP (para
7.3 (b). Finally, in the context of the annual review of the PEP for
health, each health district would be allocated a minimum of FMG 1.5
million in O&M funds annually through MoH's regular recurrent budget,
in order to ensure adeguate maintenance of rehabilitation facilities
(para. 7.5 (b)).
(c)   The PHC program: The MoH will submit to the Association for comment,
no later than March 31, 1992, a proposal for the introduction of a
cost recovery mechanism for the distribution of essential druas
prescribed by health agents authorized by the MoH (para. 7.5 (e)).
Pending IDA aDDroval of these proDosals, no disbursements will be
made against the financing of the initial stock of essential drugs to
be offered for sale through the MoH (para. 7.4).
(d)   Institutional Development Program: To facilitate implementation of
the Health District Program: (i) in the context of its annual work
program, the MoH will submit a detailed report on the implementation
of the institutional reform Program with a critical assessment of
measures taken and a proposal for adjustmez. of such measures, if
needed. (para. 7.5 (a) (vi)). To permit timely implementation of the
training activities, it was further agreed that the MoH will (a) as a
condition of credit effectiveness. appoint a training coordinator in
each Province (para. 7.3 (bfl: (b) by March 31, 1992, appoint a
minimum of three other oualified gersonnel to form with the
provincial training coordinator a provincial core training team
(para. 7.5 (f)), and (c) submit as Dart of its annual work Droaram a
consolidated training program with schedules by province covering all
the activities to be undertaken by the central trainina unit and the
six core Provincial training teams (para. 7.5 (a) (iv)).



- 31 -
IV. THE ESP AND THE PROJECT - COSTS AND FINANCING
4.1         Introduction.  The cost and financing of the HSP is described
in para. 4.2 to 4.5 and Tables 4.1 to 4.3 below; that of the project in
para. 4.12 to 4.16 and Tables 4.4 to 4.6. The project is defined as those
elements of the HSP that are to be financed by government and IDA. Because
the scope of the individual components of the HSP is to some extent
flexible, depending on the financing available, it is not critical for
attaining the project's objectives that full financing of all program
components be obtained at the outset. Firming up the financing plan of
each annual program is a major objective of the annual work program review
and donors' meeting. Nonetheless, in designing and appraising the HSP,
which was prepared in close collaboration with the major donors, emphasis
was placed on only including components offering good prospects for
mobilizing the required financing. As a result there is a high probability
that the donors will contribute at least the amounts shown in the HSP
financing plan.
A. The HSP Costs
4.2         The total cost of the five-year time slice (1992-1996) of the
HSP is estimated at about US$100 million, excluding the salaries of regular
MoH personnel. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$83
million or 83 percent of total costs. Base costs amount to US$83 million
equivalent (83 percent of total costs), of which US$34 million are
investment costs (41 percent) and US$49 million are recurrent costs (59
percent), including drugs, contraceptives, medical supplies, insecticides
and other technical inputs for public health programs. The costs by
component and by expenditure category are summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
A breakdown of cost estimates is presented in Annex V.
4.3.        The HSP costs were estimated in mid-1990 prices and were
adjusted to April 1991, the date of negotiations.  The civil works
estimates are based on the actual construction costs of similar works
undertaken by other donors using labor-intensive methods. The estimates
for the equipment, and supplies were prepared by the MoH and verified
against standard equipment lists prepared by UNICEF. The vehicle and
technical assistance cost estimates are based on recent awards under other
IDA-financed projects. The stipends and travel allowances are based on
standard rates established by the MoH, accepted by the Ministry of Finance
and currently applied by other donors in the health sector. Similar
practices are followed in the education sector.
4.4.        Continaency Allowances.  An average of 4 percent (US$3.3
million) has been applied to base project costs for physical contingencies.
Price contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and the
following expected annual price increases:
Calendar year                 1992      1993     1994      1995     1996
Local (%)                     10.0      10.0      9.0       8.0      7.0
Foreign (%)                    3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4



- 32 -
able 4.1: HSP COSTS BY COMPONENT
(FMG Billion)                (USS Million)           % Total
Local  Foreign  Total         Local Foreign  Total       Baa Costs
A. COMM, DISEASE CONTROL
Malaria                       3.3    24.3   27.6             1.9   14.6   16.5             20
TB                            0.3      4.7    5.0           0.2    2.8    3.0              4
Leprosy                       0.6      1.1    1.7           0.3    0.7    1.0              1
STD/AIDS                      0.8    12.4   13.2             0.5    7.4    7.9             10
Plague                        0.1     3.9    4.0            0.1    2.3    2.4              3
Diease monit.                 0,3      1.4    1.7           0.2    0.8    1.0              1
IEC                           0.2      1.5    1.7           0.1    0.9    1.0              1
Sub-Tot                5.6    49.3   54.9            3.3   29.S   32.8             40
B. FAMILY PLANNING
Sub-Tow                0.6     9.7   10.3            0.4    S.8    6.2              7
C. OTHER PHC PROG.
EPI-Vacc.                     1.3     8.0    9.3            0.8    4.7    5.5              6
MCH Progt.                    6.0    43.4   49.4            3.6   26.0   29.6              36
Sub-ToW                7.3    S1.4   58.7            4.4   30.7   3S.1             42
D. INST. STRENGT.
H.Distr. mgt.                 2.8     4.8    7.6            1.6    3.0    4.6              5
Plan/Program                  0.9     4.3    5.2            0.6    2.5    3.1              4
Sub-Total              3.7     9.1   12.8            2.2    5.5    7.7              9
E. AXE Unr
Sub-Toal               2.2     -      2.2            1.3    -       13              2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 19.4   119.5  138.9           11.6   71.5   83.1            100
Phyical Coningencies         0.9     4.7    5.6            0.5    2.8    3.3              4
Price Contingencies           6.7    14.8   21.5            4.0    8.9   12.9             IS
TOTAL HSP COSTS                       27.   139.0  l               16.1   VA       2             11
Of whichtaxesI/                2.2    -       2.2           1.3    -       1.3
I/     Sales tax (1UT) to be ftnanced by MoH budget included in project cost, but custom'r duties financed by
Minister of Fmawe not included. Sinee items financed by grants are exempt from taxtion, the amount of
the TUT and customs duties relte only to item finaced by IDA and the government.



- 33 -
Table 4.2: HSP COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(FMG Billion)                (USS Million)           % ToWl
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Totl       Base Cos
1- INVESIMENT COSTS
A. Civil Work                7.5    10.0   17.5            4.5    6.0   10.5            13
B. Equipment
Equipment             0.0    23.9   23.9           0.0   14.3   14.3             18
Vehicles              -       4.8    4.8           0.0    2.8    2.8             3
Sub-Total Equipment    0.0    28.7   28.7          0.0   17.1   17.1             20
C. Tech. Assisunce
Foreign               0.5    3.2    3.7            0.3    2.0    2.3             3
Local                 0.1    0.1    0.2            0.1    0.0    0.1             0
Sub-Totl Tech.
Assist.              0.6     33    3.9             0.4    2.0    2.4            3
D. Studies
Sub-Total Studies     0.3     1.4    1.7           0.1    0.9    1.0             1
E. Training
Foreign               0.0    1.1    1.1            0.0    0.6    0.6             1
Local                 2.7     1.4    4.1           1.6    1.9    2.5             3
Sub-Total Traning     2.7    2.5    5.2            1.6    1.5    3.1             4
Totol INVESMINT COSTS    11.1    4S.9   57.0               6.6   27.5   34.1            41
H- RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operations
Equip. maint.         0.0    1.5    1.5            0.0    0.9    0.9             1
Vehicles Operat.      0.0    3.3    3.3            0.0    2.0    2.0             2
Supplies, etc.        0.0    0.2    0.2            0.0    0.1    0.1             0
Stipendsand allow.    5.2    0.6    5.8            3.1    0.4    3.5             4
General               0.9    4.1    5.0            0.6    2.4    3.0             4
Dmgs and inputs       0.0    63.9   63.9           0.0   38.2   38.2             46
Sub-Total Operatioms    6.1    73.6   79.7         3.7   44.0   47.7            57
B.TUT                        2.2    0.0    2.2             1.3    0.0    1.3            2
Total RECURRENT COSTS        8.3    73.6   81.9           5.0   44.0   49.0             59
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                19.4   119.S  138.9          11.6   71.5   83.1            100
Physical Contingencies       0.9    4.7    5.6             0.5    2.8    3.3            4
Price Contingencies          6.7    14.8   21.5            4.0    8.9   12.9            15
TOTAL HSP COSTS                      27fl  139.  1OA            li     8u    223             119
B. The H8P Financina Plan
4.5.         The HSP represents the  continuation  and  intensification,  over  a
five-year time period covering 1992-1996, of the Government's public
expenditure programs, excluding the salaries of regular MoH personnel, for
the provision of the basic and the priority public health services. The
MoH currently enjoys the technical and financial support of both
multilateral and bilateral donors in implementing its health programs. The
formulation of the HSP is expected to facilitate a more rapid mobilization
and utilization of these resources and improve the prospects for renewing



- 34 -
cooperation agreements with donors as current agreements come to
completion. The financial requirements of rehabilitating the public health
system to provide the most essential health services exceed the resources
that the government can mobilize from the public Treasury and from its
current development partners under the ongoing cooperation agreements. The
mobilization of additional resources, particularly through the proposed
project, is therefore justified and needed to complete the financing plan
of the HSP.
4.6.     Estimates of the financing plan of the HSP based on an analysis
and extrapolation of aid agreements under implementation and under
negotiation show that the HSP can be considered fully funded: the
contributions of the donors would be approximately as follows: IDA (US$31
million); UNICEF (US$17 million); EDF (US$16 million); Switzerland (US$6
million); UNFPA (US$3 million); WHO (US$2 million); UNDP (US$2 million);
France (US$1 million); Germany (US$1 million); and the Fondation R.
Follereau (US$1 million). The government would contribute about US$12
million and beneficiaries about US$8 million through the purchase of drugs
and medical supplies and through cost recovery mechanisms including user
fees. Donor interest by component is summarized in Table 4.3 below. It
should be noted that these financing plans are tentative and reflect the
support the Government expects to mobilize. Over time, the actual amounts
of financial assistance provided by a given donor, the specific uses to
which the funds will be put and the timing of the financing can be expected
to vary. These variations and complementary measures in programming the
use of the IDA credit and of the MoH's budgetary resources would be
addressed on an annual basis in the preparation of annual work programs and
their examination by the donors in an annual meeting to be arranged and
chaired by the MoH. Prior to negotiations, the annual work program for
1991 was reviewed and agreed upon, including the list of priority project
lead activities to be financed out of PPF funds (para. 7.1).
TABLE 4.3 DONOR INTEREST IN SUPPORTING HSP
DONOR  IDA   EDP  UNICEF Switzerland UNFPA   WHO   UNDP  France Germany R. Follereau
PROGRAM
A. COMM. DISEASE CONTROL
Malaria   X               X              X
TB    X           X     X              X       X
Leprosy   X                                                          X
STDiAIDS  X    X     X     X                                  X
Plague    X                              X
Dis. Monit   X                                            x
IEC    X          X
B. MCH/FP   X         X     X       X
C. OtherPHC  X    X   X     X       X                           X
D. Inst Dev.  X    X  X     X       X      X       X      X    X



- 35 -
C. The HSP - Recurrent Cost ImRlications
4.7       A primary objective of the HSP is to bring together under a
sectoral rehabilitation program the technical, financial and managerial
prerequisites that would enable the MoH to deliver a package of the most
essential basic health services efficiently. In the absence of donor
support as envisaged under the HSP, the government would not be in a
position to undertake a rehabilitation program of the existing public
health system. The HSP consequently contains few activities that are new
but these are fully justified: (a) the extension of family planning
services that have been successfully demonstrated under a pilot project and
that are among the most cost effective health services for the economy as a
whole; and (b) the AIDS control program developed to address a new health
threat. However the HSP does call for the resumption of key communicable
disease control activities (plague, epidemiological surveillance) which had
largely ceased to function, posing a threat to the health of the
population.
4.8.      Donor support of the operating costs of health programs is not a
new feature being introduced under the HSP. Over the past years,
Madagascar has benefitted from considerable and rising levels of external
aid granted to support the operations of the major communicable disease and
PHC programs (EPI, malaria and leprosy control, diarrhoeal disease control,
etc.). This approach which has now reached a critical mass is beginning to
produce encouraging results. Overcoming the chronic shortage of drugs is
also an issue that is being taken up by several donors: the Swiss, the EDF,
UNICEF, WHO to name the leading official donors. These programs would be
continued and even accelerated during the HSP implemtentation period 1992-
1996.
4.9.      Based on the foregoing analysis and on the severe curtailment of
government expenditures resulting from the economic adjustment process
starting in the early 1980's, Madagascar clearly qualifies for receiving
IDA financing of incremental recurrent expenditures: on budgetary grounds,
by reason of the nature of the operation that emphasizes sector
rehabilitation and maintenance, and the need to mobilize "emergency"
support to overcome the crisis facing the sector. Furthermore these
conditions and the considerations presented below warrant exempting the
proposed project from the usual requirement that disbursements against
incremental recurrent costs be on a declining basis:
a) review of government expenditures: the annual reviews of the PEP and
of the annual work program provide a mechanism for adjusting the share
of incrementa? operating expenditures borne by the government without
having recourse to declining disbursement ratios. The present
hypothesis, which is reflected in the 1991-93 PEP (Annex XII) and built
into the HSP cost projections, calls for the government to assume a
growing share of the public health and the HSP's total and operating
expenditures. During the mid-term review, the case for accelerating
and broadening this process would be closely examined and appropriate
language introduced into a revision of the Letter of Sector Policy. It
is also the Government's social sector policy to shift public
expenditures fror the productive sectors towards priority social
activities that are efficient and aimed at alleviating poverty.
b) affordability of services: the low level of incomes and social
indicators and the absence of broad based social security or health
insurance provisions in Madagascar constrain the ability of the
government and the beneficiaries to support the full cost of a
comprehensive package of basic health services. Against this
background, the government has agreed to accelerate studies and the



- 36-
introduction of realistic user fee. while closely monitoring the impact
these fees would have on access to basic services. Nevertheless, for a
range of health services, Madagascar is likely to remain dependent upon
external aid flows to complement the budgetary and cost recovery
resources that can be raised.
c) rehabilitation and maintenance lead times: since the major as yet
untapped domestic sources of financing for the health system are
beneficiary participation and health insurance schemes, these can only
begin to be mobilized once the health system has been rehabilitated to
an extent that allows it to provide quality services and once health
insurance proposals have been developed and tested. This necessary
lead time means that it will only be towards the end of the project
implementation period that these cost recovery mechanisms can begin to
significantly supplement or supplant external assistance to the
operation of the health system.
d) public health campaigns: a significant portion of the incremental
recurrent expenditures under the HSP and proposed project will support
the implementation of public health, disease control programs for which
cost recovery from the direct beneficiaries is either not possible (for
example the cure of a infectious TB patient costs about US$100) or
inadvisable on technical grounds (patients abandon the treatment course
once symptoms disappear but before they are fully cured, thus
continuing to pose a health risk to the community). It could therefore
be argued that the justification of supporting these activities that
aim at containing threats to the health status of the nation rather
than creating a productive asset with attendant operating costs needs
to be based on different criteria, including the willingness of donors
to provide long term assistance on a humanitarian basis, and that
governments need not be expected to be in a position to fully fund
these operations at project completion. Furthermore, in the absence of
external aid for these programs, it is likely that their implementation
would be foregone or severely curtailed by national governments, at
considerable expense of life, illness and disabilities.
e) mid-term review: will provide an occasion for examining closely issues
of program sustainability. The cost and financing and community
participation studies scheduled to be completed by this review date
will provide better data on which to base policy adjustments.
f) annual work program: the procedure of approving annual work programs
provides IDA with an instrument for limiting the financing of
incremental recurrent costs as a proportion of the HSP total, without
necessarily reducing the disbursement ratio. The presence of other
donors also financing incremental recurrent costs on a non-declining
basis adds further justification for this approach. Furthermore cost
projections of the HSP are based on a rise in the amount of recurrent
cost financing supported by the regular MoH budget.
g) the salaries of the permanent personnel of the MoH will be financed by
the government budget.
4.10.     HSP ODeratino Expenditures.  Capital investments included under
the HSP have been carefully limited to the minimum, particularly for
buiLding and vehicle fleet rehabilitation. Provisions for operational and
maintenance expenditures have been made. In addition, the rehabilitation
of the training and supervision systems will call for considerable
additional expenditures on fuel, travel allowances/costs and indemnities to
cover out-of-pocket expenditures for overnighting away from the duty
station. The rates for these indemnities are standard rates for various



- 37 -
categories of personnel that have been agreed between the MoH and the major
donors.
4.11.     Implementation of HSP will nonetheless substantially increase
the level of health expenditures to be financed overall, whether by the
MoH, the beneficiaries and external donors. The recurrent coats of
delivering the HSP, excluding salaries paid to MoH personnel, would
increase from about the equivalent of US$12.5 million in 1990 to US$22.6
million equivalent in 1996. In real terms, meeting the recurrent
expenditure requirements of the HSP would call for increasing the 1990
expenditures on PHC and communicable disease control activities by an
average of 6 percent annually. Initially about 80 percent of the total
recurrent costs, net of salaries, would be borne by the external donor
community for reasons given above; this percentage is projected to fall to
about 75 percent by 1996. The government would pick up about 11 percent of
total recurrent costs during the first year with its share rising to about
15 percent by 1996. The beneficiaries would finance the remainder. For
the MoH this translates into recurrent budgetary expenditures that rise
from about FMG2.6 billion in 1992 to PMG3.4 billion in 1996. As a result,
the MOH's share of the government's recurrent budget would rise from about
7 percent in 1991 to about 8 percent in 1996, matching the government's
announced intention of shifting public expenditures away from the
productive sectors towards the social sectors.
4.12.     Cost recovery anticipated from the introduction of user charges
and the sale of essential drugs for curative services to be offered for
sale at unit costs lower than the drugs currently offered for sale in
public sector would enable beneficiaries to assume a larger share of the
costs of their essential health needs. Should these anticipated measures
fail to materialize or fall short of their objectives, the outcome would be
rationing of drugs and services at the MoH facilities, resulting in smaller
health gains, lower health expenditures and reduced levels of efficiency.
D. The Project - costs and Financing Plan
4.13.     An IDA credit of SDR 22.9 million (US$31.0 million equivalent)
is proposed to support a project whose total cost is estimated at US$42.5
million equivalent (including US$1.3 million in taxes, but excluding US$1.5
million of duties). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$34.6
million or 81 percent of total costs. Base costs amount to US$35.7 million
equivalent (84 percent of total costs), of which US$18.6 million are
investment costs (44 percent) and US$23.9 million are recurrent costs (56
percent), including drugs, contraceptives medical supplies, insecticides
and other technical inputs for public health programs. The project costs
by component and by expenditure category are summarized in Tables 4.4 and
4.5.



- 38 -
Table  4,4:  PROJECT  COSTS BY  COMPONEHT
(FMa Billion)                (USS Million)           % Total
Local  Foreign  Total         Local Foreign  Total       Bas Costs
A. COMM, DISEASE CONTROL
Malaria                       2.6    14.6   17.2             1.5    8.8   10.3             29%
TB                            0.1      1.5    1.6            0.0    1.0    1.0              3%
Leprosy                       0.0      0.2    0.2            0.0    0.1    0.1              0%
STD/AIDS                      0.1      2.9    3.0            0.1    1.7    1.8              S%
Plague                        0.1      3.8    3.9            0.1    2.2    2.3              7%
Disease monit.                0.2      0.6    0.8            0.2    0.3    0.5              1%
IEC                           0.1      0.7    0.8            0.0    0.5    0.5              1%
Sub-Total              3.2    24.3   27.5            1.9   14.6   16.5              46%
B. FAMILY PLANNING                    0.3     6.4    6.7            0.1    3.9    4.0              11%
C. OTHER PHC PROG.
EPI-Vacc.                     0.9      1.4    2.3            0.6    0.8    1.4              4%
MCH Progr.                     1.0    11.7   12.7            0.6    7.0    7.6             21%
Sub-Total              1.9    13.1   15.0            1.2    7.8    9.0              25%
D. INST. STRENGT.
H.Distr. mgt.                  1.6     1.8    3.4            1.0    1.0    2.0              6%
Plan/Program                  0.8      4.0    4.8           0.5    2.4    2.9               8%
Sub-Total              2.4     5.8    8.2            1.5    3.4    4.9              14%
E. TAXES
TUTI/                         2.2      0.0    2.2            1.3    0.0    1.3             4%
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 10.0    49.6   59.6            6.0   29.7   35.7             100%
Physical Contingencies        0.3      2.1    2.4           0.2    1.3    1.5               4%
Price Contingencies           2.9      6.1    9.0            1.7    3.6    S.3             15%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  13.2    57.8   71.0            7.9   34.6   42.5             119%
I/     Sales tax (JUT) to be financed by MoH budget included in project cost, but custom's duties ftnanced by
Minister of Finance n_.. 'acluded. Since items financed by grants are exempt from taxation, the amounts of
the TUT and customs dufies relate only to items financed by IDA and the government.



- 39 -
Table 4.5: PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(FMG Billion)                (USS Million)             % Total
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total      Baow Cost
1- INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Work                 22       6.4      8.6          1.3     3.8      5.1          14%
B. Equipment
Equipment              0.0     7.8      7.8          0.0     4.7      4.7          13%
Vehicles               0.0     2.2      2.2          0.0     1.3      1.3           4%
Sub-Total Equipment    0.0    10.0    10.0           0.0     6.0      6.0          17%
C. Tech. Assistance
Foreign                0.2     2.0      2.2          0.1     1.2      1.3           4%
Local                  0.1     0.0      0.1          0.1     0.0      0.1           0%
Sub-Total Tech, Ast.  0.3      2.0      2.3          0.2     1.2      1.4           4%
D. Studies                    0.2      0.0      1.3          0.1     0.0      0.8          2%
E. Training
Foreign                0.0     0.2      0.2          0.0     0.1      0.1           0%
Local                  1.8     1.1      2.9          1.1     0.6      1.7           5%
Sub-Total Training     1.8     1.3      3.1          1.1     0.7      1.8           5%
Total INVESTMENT COSTS        4.5    20.8    25.3            2.7    12.4    15.1           42%
Il- INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operations
:quip. maint.          0.0     0.5      0.5          0.0     0.3      0.3           1%
Vehicles Operat.       0.0     1.2      1.2          0.0     0.8      0.8           2%
Stipends and allow.    2.4     0.3      2.7          1.5     0.1      1.6           5%
General                0.9     2.9      3.8          0.5     1.8      2.3           6%
Drugs and T/I          0.0    24.0    24.0           0.0    14.3    14.3           40%
Sub-Total Operations    3.3    28.9    32.2          2.0    17.3    19.3           54%
B.TUT                         2.2     0.0      2.2           1.3     0.0      1.3          4%
Total INC. REC. COSTS         5.5  28.9        34.4          3.3    17.3    20.6           58%
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 10.0    49.6    59.6           6.0    29.7    35.7           100%
Physical Contingencies        0.3      2.1      2.4         0.2      1.3      1.5          4%
Price Contingencies           2.9      6.1     9.0           1.7     3.6      5.3          15%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  13.2    57.8    71.0           7.9    34.6    42.5           119%
4.14.                 The HSP costing  basis  described  in para.  4.3.  and  the
contingency allowances presented in para. 4.4. were used for estimating
project costs.
4.15.                 The project financing plan is presented in Table 4.6 below.
The IDA financing would primarily be allocated to the following sub-
components of the HSP for which IDA would play a leading coordination role:
xwalaria and plague control program; communicable disease monitoring; the
MCH/FP program; the health district management; and the planning
programming and aid coordination program. Taken together, these sub-
components have a total program cost of US$40 million or 40 percent of the
HSP total; IDA financing for these sub-components would amount to US$22.2
million or 56 percent of the sub-components' total cost. The remaining



-40 -
US$8.8 million in IDA contributions (28 percent of credit proceeds) would
be allocated to help complete the financing plans of the other HSP sub-
components as agreed during the annual work program review.
Table 4.6s PROJECT FINANCING PLAN BY EXPSNDITURE CATEGORY
(USS Million)
IDA              GVT.         TOTAL
Civil Works                          2.6               1.7          4.3
Equip/Supplies                       7.9              0.4           8.3
Vehicles                             1.7               0.0          1.7
Techn. Assist.                       1.4              0.1           1.5
Studies                              0.9              0.0           0.9
Training                             2.3              0.0           2.3
Inc. Operat. Costs (excl. drugs)   4.7                 1.6          6.3
Drugs, Techn. Inputs                 9.5               6.4         15.9
Taxes                                0.0               1.3          1.3
TOTAL          31.0              11.5          42.5
4.16.          The project would be implemented over a five-year period
corresponding to the Governments' fiscal years 1992 to 1996, in order to
maintain the linkage with the PEP. The project completion date would be
December 31, 1996 and the closing date June 30, 1997. A PPF advance of
US$1.5 million was extended to finance lead health rehabilitation
activities in 1991 prior to credit effectiveness.
4.17.     Duties and Taxes.  Import duties and sales taxes payable on
goods imported and services financed by the IDA Credit and to be paid
directly out of the government's budget have been estimated at US$1.5 and
1.3 million respectively. In accordance with current practices, the duties
on goods imported and financed by the IDA Credit would be paid out of a
general budgetary account fund managed by the Ministry of Finance, and
applicable sales taxes would be paid out of the project counterpart funds
voted annually in the government's capital budget.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Manage-ent
5.1.      The MoH would be responsible for the overall implementation of
the project. Primary responsibility for project coordination and
supervision, including the allocation and administration of external
resources, would rest with the General Director of Health (DGS) who would
also be the project director. Within the MoH, responsibility for executing
the specific project components would be delegated to headquarters
departments/divisions, provincial services and medical inspectorate in
accordance with the ministry's organizational structure and institutional
responsibilities. In particular, the DLMT would have primary
responsibility for the endemic disease control component, the DMP for the
family planning and PHC components, and the DEPP for the institutional
strengthening component, with inputs from the six provincial health
services for the training program. The Projecta Monitoring Unit (Cellule
de Suivi des Projets - CSP), reporting directly to UZS, would be



-41-
responsible for allocation and administration activities, including keeping
of accounts, overseeing procurement and monitoring the physical and
financial execution of activities undertaken with external assistance. The
DPL would be responsible for acquiring, storing and distributing drugs,
contraceptives and medical supplies to the health districts.
5.2.      While overall responsibility for project management would rest
with the DGS who would report directly to the Minister of Health, it was
agreed during neaotiations that the MoH would establish a Proiect Steerina
Committee (PSC) as a condition of credit effectiveness and maintain it
thereafter (para. 7.3 (a)) to assist the DGS with the supervision of
project activities and to recommend, if needed, actions to resolve issues
and improve performance under the Project. The PSC would include the
following officials of the MoH: the Inspector General, the Secretary
General, the DGS and the directors of the MoH departments involved in
implementing the project, the head of the Family Planning Unit and at least
two heads of provincial health services. It would meet at least quarterly
and would approve the annual work programs and progress reports to be
submitted to IDA.
5.3.      The main responsibilities of the project director would include:
(a) organizing, consolidating and overseeing the implementation of the
annual work plans and project progress reports for submission to the PSC
and IDA; (b) organizing and following up on the annual donors meeting and
quarterly PSC meetings; (c) liaison with donors; (d) overseeing the
procurement and disbursements according to donor guidelines and procedures
maintenance of project accounts; and (e) monitoring implementation of
credit covenants with the proposed project.
5.4       Day to day project administration, including the drawing up of
terms of reference for studies, the preparation of bidding documents and
withdrawal applications, the management of project accounts will be
performed by the Projects Monitoring Unit (CSP) of the MoH which reports
directly to DGS. During negotiations, the MoH agreed to maintain the CSP
with adequate staff during the execution of the proiect and. as a condition
of credit effectiveness, to nominate an administrative officer to head the
CSP with oualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
(para. 7.3 (b)). The staffing of this unit is currently sufficient to
monitor and administer the existing external aid agreements. It would need
strengthening to adequately handle the administration of the proposed IDA
credit. To the extent that suitably qualified and experienced staff cannot
be found within the MoH and transferred to CSP, the project would finance
the recruitment, on annual contracts, of expert procurement, accounting
and bookkeeping personnel as well as office support staff. These personnel
who would not be civil servants, would carry out tasks including the
preparation of lists of equipment, goods and services to be financed by the
project and procurement of civil works, goods and services. No stipends
will be paid to regular MoH staff in connection with project
administration, including the preparation of project related documents.
B. Status of Preparation
5.5.      Project preparation is well-advanced, and implementation of the
new and incremental activities needed to rehabilitate the systems and
improve performance could be started in 1992 or as soon as financing is
available. The MoH prepared the HSP documents in close concert with IDA
and with the support of consultants, including some financed under the PPF,
and with donor personnel assigned to Madagascar. Each component of the HSP
is described in a working paper that includes details of its objectives and
strategies, a schedule of specific actions required to implement it and
cost estimates. The HSP was presented to an informal donors' meeting held



-42 -
in Antananarivo in September 28, 1990 and accepted as the basis for
development of the sector. Four of the major donors attended project
negotiations as observers and provided informal confirmation of their
support for the HSP. In addition, an annual work program for 1991 was
reviewed prior to negotiations (para. 7.1) and agreement reached on the
financing plan for these activities as well as on procedures for calling
the first donor's meeting in September 1991,
5.6.      A list of sites to be rehabilitated/upgraded during the first
year of the project (Annex VI) and draft bidding documents were reviewed as
satisfactory prior to negotiations.
5.7.      Technical Assistance.  Implementing the HSP in a timely and
efficient manner will require the MoH to mobilize external expertise to
assist in setting up new programs and systems and in preparing the next
phases of its sector development program. MoH expects to be able to
mobilize a large part of this expertise by drawing on existing cooperation
agreements to mobilize staff assigned to Madagascar as well as short term
consultants. The proposed project would provide: (a) support for preparing
a study of cost and financing mechanisms (about 30 person-months); (b)
back-up support (equivalent to about 60 person-months of international
experts) by making funds' available for retaining needed expertise not
readily available from other sources, including for developing the in-
service training and institutional reform programs; and (c) funding for
additional personnel and studies, including annual audits, needed
specifically for the administration of the IDA credit (an allocation of
US$750,000). Details on the probable uses of technical assistance are
presented in Annex VII; they will be re-examined annually in the context of
the review of the annual work program and, more exhaustively, in the
context of the mid-term evaluation. Based on experience from other
IDA-financed projects in Madagascar, short-term international consultancies
have been costed at $12,000 per person-month, including travel expenses,
and the long-term local contracts at $500 per person-month.
5.8.      The project director is familiar with Bank procedures from
having managed the PPF. The staff of the CSP responsible for administering
the project are being assisted by a local accounting firm with experience
in setting up accounting systems for IDA-financed operations.
5.9.      Training.  Training programs to upgrade and maintain the
technical and managerial skills have a major focus of the HSP and are
pivotal prerequisites for attaining the MoHls institutional development and
efficiency gains objectives. Four types of training activities would be
delivered: (a) a program for the training of about 80 core trainers to be
deployed in the central training division and in each of the six provincial
services; (b) a general integrated training refresher program for all the
300 medical and 2,100 paramedical personnel of the MoH assigned to the
primary and intermediate level health facilities with a frequency of one
two-week training session every two to three years; (c) specialized
training courses addressing new topics/services introduced, such as FP and
AIDS/STD control activities or developed for specific types of manpower
such as laboratory and cold chain technicians, mechanics, etc.; and (d)
short-term specialization programs in overseas institutes to train the
specialists, such as malariologists, parasitologists, entomologists,
epidemiologists, pharmacists and program managers that the MoH will need to
design and manage its public health program in the future. A summary table
of the training programs under the HSP is presented in Annex VIII. The
adequacy of detailed training schedules offered by the central divisions of
the MoH and the six provincial health services would be examined in the
context of the annual work program review (para. 3.34 (b)).



- 43 -
C. Procurement
5.10.     Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method (USS Million)
Category                        ICB    LCB    IS/LS   BCG    N.A        Cost
1.  Civil Works                        1.9     2.4                       4.3
(1.4)   (1.2) 1/                   (2.6)
2.  Vehicles, Equipment         8.6    0.7     0.7                      10.0
Supplies                  (8.5)  (0.5)   (0.6)                      (9.6)
3.  Drugs and technical       10.5              5.4                     15.9
inputs                    (9.4)           (0.1)                     (9.5)
4.  Technical assistance                               2.4               2.4
and studies                                       (2.3)             (2.3)
5.  Training                                                   2.3       2.3
(2.3)    (2.3)
6.  Stipends and travel                                        2.2       2.2
(1.3)    (1.3)
7.  Incremental operating                                      4.1       4.1
costs                                                     (3.4)    (3.4)
TOTAL                       19.1  2.6      8.5    2.4      8.6      41.2 2/
(17.9)(1.9)   (1.9)  (2.3)   (7.0)   (31.0)
Note:  The figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
1/ Prudent shopping on basis of a minimum of three quotations
2/ Excluding taxes US$1.3 million
5.11.     The bulk of the civil works consists of rehabilitation and small
extensions; the items to be financed are small in size and scattered
geographically. Most contracts will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), advertised locally and conducted in accordance
with IDA guidelines ($1.4 million equivalent for about 35 contracts with an
average value of about US$40,000 per contract). In particular, L;.;. A.CB
procedures will provide that: (a) registration of bidders in the
Borrower's Registry of Commerce shall not be required for the acceptance of
their bids; (b) bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representative shall be allowed to be present; (c) no special preference
shall be given to local bidders in the evaluation of bids; and (d) foreign
bidders will not be precluded from participating. Other smaller
rehabilitation works (80 contracts - average contract value equivalent to
about US$15,000) for which no contractors are likely to bid because of the
small value and remote location would be awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three local contractors in
conformity with procedures acceptable to the Association, up to an
aggregate total of US$1.2 million. Contracts for vehicles, equipment and
supplies (US$8.6 million) and for drugs and technical inputs, including
insecticides (US$10.5 million), would be awarded on the basi- of
international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for furniture and
equipment and items that cannot be grouped in larger packages and that are
urgently required, and costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, may be
awarded up to an aggregate total of US$0.5 million equivalent, on the basis
of LCB. Items suitable for ICB would be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1985)
and "Sample Bidding Documents - Procurement of Goods" (March 1985). When
ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of goods would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15% over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign



- 44 -
suppliers or the applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower.
Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by the MoH estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $20,000 up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000 and other items that cannot be grouped or
groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.5 million equivalent
may be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in
accordance with the international and local shopping procedures outlined in
the guidelines.
5.12.     Consultant services of experts and studies (US$2.3 million) (for
details see Annex VII) would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981). To keep the evaluations manageable, not more than
six (but at least three) proposals would be invited following a short-
listing acceptable to IDA. Technical assistance for developing the
training of trainers and for etudies (US$1.3 million) would be procured
through tendering procedures. It is expected that all other short-term
technical assistance (US$1.0 million) would be contracted directly with
individuals selected through advertising.
5.13.     Training abroad (US$0.2 million equivalent) would be contracted
directly with relevant training institutes. Local training (US$2.1 million
equivalent) would be organized by the MoH. The cost of training would
include travel expenses, per diem, rental of space and printing of
materials.
5.14.     IDA would review the master lists of furniture and goods, text
of notices to bidders, experts' terms of reference and draft bid documents,
including groupings and updates of cost estimates. Items would be grouped
to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and bulk
procurement. IDA review of bid evaluation documents prior to award would
be required only for contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent for civil
works and US$50,000 for goods.
D. Disbursements
5.15.     All project disbursements are subject to prior approval of the
concerned work program by IDA. Overall estimates of disbursements by
project component and within each component by category of expenditure and
agreement to the list of civil works, goods and services and operating
costs to be financed under the PPF during 1991 would be determined during
negotiations. Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for civil
works;
(b) 100% of expenditures for equipment, vehicles, drugs, technical inputs
and supplies;
(c) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services, studies and training;
and
(d) 85% of local expenditures for incremental operating costs and
stipends.
5.16.     The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in
Annex IX. All disbursements would be fully documented except for:
(a) civil works contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(b) furniture and goods costing less than US$20,000 equivalent; (c) local



-45 -
training; and (d) operating costs, for which disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditures (SOEs), which would be certified by the
Project Director. The government would not submit the documentation of
SOEs to IDA for review but would retain them for inspection by IDA during
project supervision; they would also be audited by an independent firm.
The disbursement schedule has been estimated on the basis of the
implementation schedule and sector profile for Madagascar.
S. Soecial Agcounts.
5.17.     To ensure that funds for project implementation are available
when needed, a special account in US dollars would be established in a
financial institution acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of about
US$1.0 million equivalent, to cover about four months of expenditures, to
be withdrawn from the Credit account after Credit effectiveness. The
special account would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence,
provided to IDA by the CSP of payments made from the account for goods and
services required for the project that are eligible for financing under the
Credit.
5.18.     A project account in local currency, operated by the CSP would
be established under conditions acceptable to the Association for the
purpose of making available the Government's contributions to the project.
During negotiations the government agreed to make. as a condition of credit
effectiveness, an initial denosit of USS100.000 eguivalent into this
account and agreed to replenish the account on a monthly basis (para. 7.3
(d)). This account would be used directly by the project administration
for local payments and to be l ?lenished by the government on a monthly
basis to ensure that the balance will at no time be lower than about
Us$30,000 equivalent. This account would &lso be subject to the annual
project audit.
F. Monitoring. Reoor+inu and Evaluation
5.19.     The Project would require annual progress reports on project and
program implementation, to be submitted to the Association within three
months of the end of each calendar/budget year. These reports would
briefly: identify major problems, if any, and recommend solutions; review
the performance of the implementing authorities and agencies; and maintain
key performance indicators in reaching project goals. In addition, the
government would prepare and send to the Association for comment, not later
than six months after final disbursements from the Credit account, a
completion report in standard form.
G. Auditinlg
5.20.     The CSP would maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in conformity with national accounting practices acceptable to
IDA. Thsse accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, including a special audit of es enditures under
v'tatements of expenditure and of the special accounts and the project
account in local currency. The auditor would also examine the execution by
the agency responsible for each component of the IDA financed activities
under that component, and certify conformity with procurement procedures
and accountancy practices. The audit reports should be furnished to IDA
within six months following the end of the fiscal year (which ends December
31). The Malagasy accounting sector has shown itself competent to provide
good quality audit reports of complex projects.



- 46 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1.      The project would provide direct benefits to most of the
Malagasy population by reducing preventable deaths and illness episodes and
by broadening access by women to the full range of safe motherhood
activities. Children under 5 who constitute a vulnerable group to disease,
would benefit more than proportionately from the range of creative and
preventive health activities to be delivered under the HSP.
6.2.      Accelerated implementation of the PP component would constitute
the government's single most important contribution attaining the
demographic, health and nutrition objectives of the NPL by improving child
survival prospects and allowing couples to control their reproductive
behavior, and consequently to reduce fertility levels, on a voluntary
basis.   Taken together, the FP and PHC components can be expected to have
a major impact over the longer term in alleviating poverty, easing the
strains imposed by the rapid population growth rate on the country's
natural resource base and on access to and the quality of social and basic
economic infrastructure, and in improving the sustainability of the
structural adjustment process.
6.3.      Support of institutional reforms in the MoH is expected to lead
to significant efficiency gains in service delivery and in the use of
public expenditures, whether from domestic or external sources. Studies to
be undertaken under the project are expected to improve the policy
framework and lead to a better and more efficient definition of the
complementary roles to be played by public, private, private voluntary
organizations, corporate and community health providers. They would also
help clarify the interfaces between the MoH and other systems of health
care and public information. In addition, they are expected to lead to job
creation outside the civil service. Finally, improved data collection and
analysis on health and population issues are expected to lead to better
sector programming and more effective program management.
B. Environmental impact
6.4.      The project would have a positive impact on the human
environment. In addition, the health education and sanitation programs
would have some positive impact on the physical environment. The project
would involve the use of pesticides, mainly DDT, to control the
transmission of malaria and of deltamethrine for plague. No negative
environmental impact is foreseen, however, as the amounts to be used are
small in compared to pesticide usage in agriculture, and the areas to be
treated are limited. DDT would be used as a residual indoor insecticide
and carefutlly controlled to minimize any possible environmental
contamination; it does not constitute a health risk to humans.
Deltamethrine belongs to a class of pesticides that do not present an
environmental risk. The project also provides continuous training in
techniques for safe application and surveillance of pesticide use and
manipulation (see Annex X). The guidelines for the selection and use of
pesticides in public health programs in Bank financed projects was followed
in preparing the project.
C. Risks
6.5.      Project implementation faces two major risks.  First, the
demands of delivering throughout Madagascar the entire package of priority
activities spelled out in the HSP could strain the institutional capacity
of MoH. This risk is addressed through the reorganization of MoH central
staff and the appointment of senior staff with recent field experience to



- 47 -
managerial positions, the design of the institutional development component
including the rationalization of training programs and the mobilization of
technical and administrative specialists under donor aid programs and the
proposed project. In addition, the process of preparing detailed annual
work programs that take into account the most recent iriplementation
performance allows for institutional capacity considerations to be built
into the operational programs. Second, given the large number of donors
involved in the HSP there is a risk of delays in the commitment of external
resources. Strengthening the staffing of the Projects Monitoring Unit, and
the aid coordination mechanisms supported under the project, especially the
agreements calling for the timely preparation of annual work programs and
their review at a donors' meeting, serve to minimize this risk.
VIZ. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1.      An annual work program for 1991 was accepted prior to
negotiations (paras. 4.6 and 5.5).
7.2.      A letter setting forth the government's Health Sector
Development Policy (para 3.1) has been sent to the Association (Annex IV).
7.3. Agreement was reached on the following conditions of credit
effectiveness:
(a)  the MoH shall have established the PSC (para. 5.2);
(b)  the MOH shall have appointed; (i) an administrative officer within
CSP, with the specific task of administering the proposed project,
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Association (para. 5.4); (ii) a physician, two midwives and one
I.E.C. specialist within the FP unit of DSP (para. 3.34 (b)); and
(iii) a training coordinator in each Province (para. 3.34 (d)).
(c) the MoH shall have submitted to IDA an acceptable annua.l work program
for 1992 (para 3.30); and
(d) the government shall have made an initial deposit of the equivalent
of US$100,000 into the local currency project account (para. 5.18).
7.4.      It was agreed that no disbursements would be made towards the
establishment of an initial stock of essential drugs unless the government
had introduced a cost recovery mechanism for the distribution of essential
drugs prescribed by MoH personnel, acceptable to IDA (para. 3.34 (c)).
7.5.      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  preparation by MoH of an annual work program, its presentation to a
working meeting of the donors interested in financing activities in
the health sector to review the proposals and to finalize a financing
plan, and the submission to IDA for its review before September 30th
of each year of a final annual work program together with a list of
items proposed for financing under the IDA credit (para 3.30). IDA's
review of the annual work programs would be based on conformity of
these programs with the terms of the letter setting forth the Health
Sector Development Policy, and shall include inter alia, verification
thats



- 48 -
(i) the proposals include all the activities to be carried out for
the execution of the HSP during the following year and have been
budgeted (para 3.30);
(ii) the proposals identify all the activities to be financed under
the proposed project together with a costed list of the items to be
financed under the IDA credit during the following year (para. 3.30);
(iii) a detailed financing plan for activities referred to under (i)
and (ii) above (para 3.30);
(iv) a training work program to specify the proposed training
schedules by province, covering all training activities to be
undertaken by the central training unit within the MoH and the six
provincial core training teams (para 3.34 (d));
(v) evidence that facilities proposed to be equipped under the FP
component have been rehabilitated to minimum operating standards
(para. 3.34 (b)); and
(vi) a report on the implementation of the previous years' annual
work program, including a detailed report on the implementation of
the institutional reform program to present a critical assessment of
the measures taken and proposals for the adjustment of these
measures, if needed (para 3.34 (d)).
(b)  Submission by the MoH before September 30 of each year of an
acceptable public expenditure program for the health sector, each
program to provide inter alia for a minimum of FMG 1.5 million to
each health district to provide for maintenance of facilities
rehabilitated under the project (paras. 3.30 and 3.34 (b)).
(c) The MoH would undertake by June 30, 1994 a mid-term review of the
project execution, includings (i) an assessment as to whether the
strategies being followed are producing the expected results; (ii) a
proposal for the government's pharmaceutical policy; (iii) and a
proposal for the development of the non-public sector activities in
the health sector; furnish IDA with a report on the mid-term review,
exchange views with IDA on the report and take all necessary measures
to remedy any problem that has been identified during such mid-term
review (para. 3.31).
(d) The MoH would, by January 31, 1992, take all necessary steps to open
the technical committees for tuberculosis and leprosy to all
institutions active in those fields and, thereafter, ensure that the
technical committees meet regularly (para. 3.34 (a)).
(e) The MoH would, by March 31, 1992, present to IDA for comment, a
proposal for the introduction of a cost recovery mechanism for the
distribution of essential drugs (para. 3.34 (c)).
(f) the MoH will by March 31, 1992, appoint at least three qualified
personnel in each Province to form a core training team responsible
for training of health personnel and, thereafter, maintain such teams
(para. 3.34 (d)).
7.6.      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit in the amount
of SDR 22.9 million equivalent (US$31.0 million equivalent) on standard
terms to the Government of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.



-49-                                                  Annex I
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
mmt    N, 4Cti
25130      15-20      rect         Sub-                   h
Uai if           wafa                            Shagra'      LOWA 
mea.m W      450"       45         (")         jfc        bscoftV     510mp
HUMAN RESOURCES
SU, growth,  'U ctura opuI                                    6.e        746        11.17        50'       2 
p~Iancxi(m~ie u      °      W °1939)                      42.4        44.0       41          47.2
Fu=   p1Xmtioa (Mfg in 1999                                                           _ Of                    __
15-64                                                         54.7       53.0                   50.3        60.1        57.6
ASe dcpcis utnit                                              0.33       0.t9        0.92       0.93        0.65        0.73
Pamagerbn Are-mm                             at pop.          12.3       16.3        24.5       33.1        37.4        59.2
FDupelO Oper1                                                                            ..t.. _
Pgp                                              s             2.4        25          2.i         3.1        2.0         2.1
Pi1da4grwth r                                                                          5.1         5.2         5.6        3.0
Urbazrnw  ngWdk pdlffc?efLp diff14cso                           3.2         3.2        2.9         2.8         5.3         1.9
ProjecWdpj=opzai: 2000                        llw                 ..                  14385        674       3.620        331
Siadnoaiy   CapId*--.                                                                42.12                        
Dtetrmlnamts of populatiOn growth
Ferth rater thou. pop.                                        47.3    51.7           42.7       467         29.8        360
Tlhoral fr]Lyrt                         b nirth s              359        36          49           9.371                 3.34
Cauoa de ptry                                                 441mab   serwlm  6.60  6.40  5.93  3?9        3s3         3.7
Child (0c4) won59 i                      per 100 wom                        61
Urban                                        abr_                         16___.
EucgtbnalQlmn  tbrt
RUrAL                                                           -          34          - Q     2
Crude deah rare                          pertho.MP*           21.3       17.6        15.3       1559.93.
)sifamm'~'~' rate    perthou li baths      2014        153.3       117A       1            69.5        52.7
UnderMotiy rare                                                                     166.       171         1610          13
yerA             43.         413        50.7        51.        61.9        65.2
WCe expectancy at binh ovemUl4.                                           9.          16        5.          62.7        67.6
ffi~~~~~ed                                             44.    49.    51
ToW labor forcemiliars2.9                                       3.67        91194                 1,371        244
A otalbora'                             %oflaborforce         35.        32.3          ---
=t,Y ~~~~~~*4.3   5.4   3.    71    0                                                                      3.
tRyH                                       -41.6                      41.5       3.           71         3i3.
Femalesp pr     msI                                                              _ 
Urban                                                                     10                        
Rural                                                                     103
Pariipation fats.: oveli                 * atlibor for         501,        42         43.6        41.3        49.3        Al
fmals!                                          41.1        39.4       34.2        30.4        35.0       22.6
Educational Attainmmnt of labo force
Schadl years omp1erd: olveral                 eas-                                   - Mrs
NATURIAL RESOURCES
Arm                        *49. sq. Ion        ~~~~~5S7    5g7         537      23,066      36.997     21,063
Arcs                          thoa.sq.ba~~~~~~~~k   10          13         i3         20          76          30
%PJMA=W   ~     61.7       62.6        6.         33.3        36.1        36.9
Agricalnml density                             ~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~17    21   2           5s    212    32
Fatesta and 1voadla~~~~~~~~~~d                  130        167         14        6,319      9.154       6.084
'~~ (flu)   -. ...  anuI               .~~~~0.4   -1.0       -11         ..4         4.3        .0.7
Arm -tassfewae                              *oPop.                -        25.0       31.0        363        7-          63.5
Urbn                                                            -        i 760       31.0       75.7        734          7.
Rural                                                                    14.0        17.0       2.             -        43
Population growth l_fautmortlty                                                     Primary school enrolment
4                                                                            U~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
a4lyE     &17Cb        mm                                                                          wmmt70a



- 50 -                                                 Annex I
Page 2 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
S5e retia I irw mgreys~
2530       15-20      vAat        Sub.                  hhr
Uni of         Ywa        Ywz        aagnaa    Sahie         La-       mi
uaswe            ew         0ge       fnv)        Auco                   row
INCOME AND POVERTY
bcme
GNP per upeu (mm = 1989)                     USS               130        280        230        330         330       1.320
Toul bousdiold inaxns
Shi to top 10% of hoseholds             % oflooie              ..         -           -          - 
Sham to tcp 20% of housebolds                -                            - 
Sham to bcan 40% of households                                 -                      .
Sham to blttom 20% of hosholds                                            ..                     .          _           .
Povt
Absoite povery inome: urt                USS pq perso 
Pop. in ab6olute poverty ut                % ofpop. .                       ..         ...
Prevalence of malnutdaas (wder 5)        % of age poop           .          ..       52.          ..
EXPENDrrURE
Food                                       % of GDP              .          ..       35.9         .           .
Staples                                                       .. .0                13.3          '      2.             S
Mca; fish. nilk,cheese,eggs                                                        12.3
thm me~il tonnes        f2        140       8,274     27,738      40,386
1         76       3 796      7122       7 767
Foprodu                  .                1979-81=100        104.1      112.9        92.4        26       117.8         29.9
Shar of aslr in GDP                        % of GDP              -       34.0        31.4       33.7       32.8        15.2
Dilycalorie supply                     clodc perp            2,375      248         2,101      2,010      2,342       2,741
Dilyprotein sury                           sperp               57          56         47         48          56         71
HouIng                                     %of GDP              ..        ..         7.5
Avue  houchold siz                    puso  per hosebold                    ..5        -
Fixe investment housing                    % of GDP              .          .         1.1.
Fuaiandpower                               % of GDP              ..         .         412         ..         ..          .
Energyonmset np       a                kg of oil equivale     33.5       78.4        39.3      103.8      323.8       843.7
Housilcld, WirZffdcQtdq-
Urban                                  % of hous.hods                                .           .          .
Rural
Transport and cammunksca                   %ofGDP                ..         _         2.4
Pqptlaton perpassa4ger car                  pIsns              1I         138        214          ..          .         30
Fixed inveament          i t               %of GDP                          ..        0.9
Toul road lenth                               km                 ..                 0,000 .
Populationpertalecbo                        pens                 -        245        227          ..          _         17
INVESTMENT IN llMAN CAPITAL
Medklace                                   %of GDP                          -         9.2
P  on per. physicima         persona        ~~~~~10.623  10,100    10.002          .,      1,463      1,551
PWaUb       n per. physe                    P '              3,646        240      1l,721                1,747
bolbed                            -                 ..       400          ..          .        755
Access to heath cm                         % of pop.             -                  65.0 -      5          4
Immunized (under 12 monhd): measles      % of ae   v             -                              4 2.7      41.3        6E9
DPT                                    -                      0       4.           13        6.
OralRehydradtion7heanpyua"(der5)           %oofe                 ..        ..         2.1       18.4       21.6        27.5
Eduetbo                                    % of GDP              _          ..        9.6         _           .
Gross cairollat rado
Prim uT    r WA                     %of school-age slow      65.0       95.0      103.0       66         104.3      102.0
frinrytoale                                              59.0       33.0       92.0        69.7       94.7      101.1
Secondary: tota                                               3.0       It0        200        28.5        37.2       51.1
femal                                               5.0       10.         19.0       12.2       28O         52.4
Teniuy scanclonSwering                % of tedary students    19.9        19.5       27.3         _           ..         _
Pupil-teacer mto: '                     pupils per wadaer       71         60         4 1        41          2926
P4czcher do:y           pQspcrtcsba724                     26         29          33         1 8        17
pupils r"ecing Vde 4                      % ofeohou                      69.2          _        76.4       67.8          -
epeawe rate: pamfy                    % Of towa anrolment    28.         24.4        0.0
Mac$acy fate: oveu                     %  (ofpop. (,To           _       24.4        32.5       53.4       43.4        25.4
femak% atlca                             age                    .. 15+)  38.4       64.0        565        31.6
Newspaper ciraraibdo                     perthoa. pop.        13.6        8.0         5.7        5.2       20.4        78.9
sw  wiI bt           5 3.u D -0m  ktbu 19%



-51-                                                Annex It
DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF MADAGASCAR                                       Page  1 of  2
HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
POPULATION AND VITAL RATES
................. ........................................................ -. .. .... ...... ... .. .. ..   . ......I.............
Year Coce  Pop(OO0)         r      rni     CaR      COM      [MR      TFR    e(m)      (t()  MiSgm)  mig(f)  %Urtan       CPR
......................... ...................................................... ....... ............ .
;50-5'.          4230    2.19    2.19   48.30   26.40   245.0   6:600   36.40   39.20            0.0               7.8
5i*59           4720    2.37    2.37   48.20  z2.5o   228.0   6.600   38.40   41.30             0.0  .,          9.1
1960           5314    2.50                                                                                     10.5
1t61 is        54.49    2.55
1962 ia        53a9    2.55    2.50   47.80   22.80   211.0   6.600   40.40   43.30            0.0
1963 ia        5734    2.50
1961. i a       5879    2.42
16s5            6023    2.36                                                                                    12.3
1966 ia        8167    2.31
1967 ia        6311    2.27    2.59   47.00   21.10   195.0   6.600   42.10   45.30  -10O.0
196a ia        6456    2.25
196; is        6603    2.24
1970           6732    2.29                                                                                     14.1
1971 ia        6908    2.30                                                                   _
1972 ia         7069    2.34    2.71   46.00   18.90   172.0   6.600   45.00   43.00  -121.0
1973 ia         7237    2.43
197: Ia         7414    2.53
1975            7604    2.71                                                   -                                16.3
1976 ia         7813    2.73
1977 ia        8029    2.74    2.71   43.80   16.70   150.0   6.600   48.00   51.00            0.0
1978 ia        8252    2.73
1979 is        8480    2.72
1980            8714    2.70                                                                                    18.9
1981 ia         8952    2.66
1982 ia        9194    2.67    2.87   45.05   16.35   130.0   6.455   L8.86   51.06            0.o       .0O
1983 fa        9443    2.74
1984 Ia        9705    2.84
1985           9985    2.93                                                                                     21.8
1986 ia        1021S    2.99
1987 ia        10593    3.05    3.03   46.30   16.00   120.0   6.455   49.50   51.10           0.0      0.0    23.4
1983 ia        10921    3.09
1959 ia        11264    3.11
10o            11620                                                                                            25.0
1992
1994,
1995           13538                           .  -
............................... .......................................................................           _    ......
_ar:es:
c;utation
1985      UNPVS2 10/89 Cofficiat QSt.)
1986      Bank projection
1987      Bank projec:ion
1988      Bank projection
989
199o
tre 85-90   Bank assessmene of 1980 survey
iort 8-5-90   Bank assessmsenc of 1980 and 1984 surveys
.M4t 85-go    u.N.1988 revision (preLim.)
4ii 85-90    Arnold, 1989
C?-R
6ge scruc%   U.N 1988 revision (prelim.)
teared by
upplemental data: World Bank estimates



MADACASCAR                                 Projection (000s) with NRR=1 by 2030
................... ........................................  9_......_.__._..__. .... .. .. .. .... ... . . .. . . .. . ..
AGE  ROUP        19a5         1990        1995        2000         2005        2010        2015        2020        2025         2030
.......... ................... .............................................___......___.____......  __... ...... .............
TOTAL N*F        9985        11620       13538       15759        18191       20805       23544       26316       28833        31010
KALES
0-4             964         1087        1254        1432         1562        1672        1753        1788        1677         1526
5-9             749         915         1036        1202         1381        1514        1626        1712        1753         1651
10-14            617         738          902        1022        118l8        1367        1500        1613        1700        1742
15-19            532         607          726         888        1008         1173        1352        1484        1599         6817
20-24            429         520          594         710         B69          989        1153        1331        1465         1581
25-29        *   367         418          506         577         691          848         967        1131        1309         1445
30-34            286         355          405         490         560          672         828         947        liti         1290
35-39            207          275         343         390         473          542         654         80a         927         1091
40-44            154          198         263         327         373          454         523         633         786         906
45-49            157          145         187         248         309          354         433         501         610          760                         0
5054            137          145         134         173         230          289         332         409         475         582
55-59            118          123         131         121         156          209         264         306         378         441
60-64            0oo          102         106         113          105         136         184         233         272         339
65-69             75           81          R3          86          91          86          112         153         196         231                          o
70-74             49          55           59          61          63          68          64           85         1l1         152                          Z
75*              42          47          53           se          61          65           71          72          as         118                          0
IOTAL         4983        5812        6780         7899        9122       10438       l11S        13206       14463       15543                           3          I
FEKALES                                                                                                                                                     ;P
0-4             937         1057        1218        1390        1514         1621        1700        1734        1627        1480
5-9             742         890         1009        1970        1345         1472        1582        1667        1707        1609
10-14            610         730         877          996        1157        1332         1459        1571        1657        1700
Is-19            512         599          718         863         982        1144         1318        1447        1560        1648
20-24            405         499          sas         703         847         966         1127        1302        1433        1548                          o
25-29            382         392          485         570         686         830         949         1110        1286        1418                          4
30-34            300         369          380         471         554         670          812         932        1094        1271
35-39            238         288          356         367         457         539         654          796         916        1079
40-44            176         227          277         342         354         442         524          638         779         900
45-49            175          167         217         265         328         341         427          509         621         761                         z
50-54            146         164          157         205         251         312         326          410         490         601                         En
55-59            124         134          151         146         190         234         293          307         389         467
60-64             96          I1o         119         135         131          172        213          269         284         361
65-69             70          80           92         101         115         113          149         187         237         252
70-74             48          54          61           72          79          91          90          121         152         196
75.              40          48          56           65          77          as         104          111         138         176
TOTAL         5002        5809        6758        7860         9069       10368       11729       13110        14370       15467
B:*TK RATE              46.3        45.4        43.8         40.6        37.4        34.1        30.6         25.7        21.3
DEATH RATE              16.0        14.8         13.5        11.9        10.5         9.4         8.3          7.4         6.7
RATE Of NAT. INC.       3.03        3.06        3.04         2.87        2.69        2.47        2.23         1.81        1.46
NE] MIGRATION RATE        .0           .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0           .0          .0
GROWTH RATE             3.03        3.06         3.04        2.87        2.69        2.47        2.23         1.83        1.46                                       0 a
TOIAL FERTILITY        6.455       6.455       6.155        5.555       4.955       4.355       3.755       3.013        2.417                                         X
URN                    2.346       2.393       2.350        2.192       2.005       1.806       1.596        1.313       1.078
e(0) - BOTH SEXES      50.27       51.47       53.00        54.82       56.64       58.53       60.50 ;     62.56        64.70                                      0 -
ec1S) - BOTH SEXES     47.57       48.05       40.52        49.10       50.17       51.27       52.42       53.62        54.86
INN - BOTH SEXES       120.0       112.8       102.4         90.5        82.4        74.4        66.3        58.3         50.3                                       N
qtS1 - 801H SEXES      .1761        .1643       .1477       .1287        .1162      .1037        .0910       .0763       .0655
CiP. RAIIO       98.1        99.0         98.0        94.5        90.4        83.8        76.6        69.8         62.1        53.7



- 53 -
Annex III
DEMOCRATIC REPU9LIC OF UADACASCAR                      Page 1 of 2
HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORCANIZATION CHART
UINISTRY OF HEALTH - CENTRAL SERVICES
MAINISTER
SEeRETARY
LCENERAL  |CETA
_   _                  ~~~~~TRAINING
_          ~~~UNIT
TA                                                             FINANCIAL
ADMINISTRATIVE
DIRECTOR
PRVICA                        DIRECTOR                          - INANCE
HEALTH                         GENERAL
SE-RVICES                      HEALTH              .-PERSONNEL
PROJECTS
_ MIONITORING
UNIT (CSt) .
DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR     -      DIRECTOR        DIREC OR   -DIRECTOR
STUDIES         COMWUNICABLE        CURATIVE        PREVENTIVE    PHARMACY
PLANNING        DISE-ASE            IvFDICINE       WEDECINE      AND
PROGRAYSINC     CONTROL             (DUC)           (DUP)         LASORATORIES
(DEPP)          (DLYT)               -(DPL)
|- STUDIES        |- MALARIA       |-HOSPITAL       |- MATERNAL   |- CENTRAL PHARMACY
IPLANNING                            SERVICES       |CHILD|
|PROCRAWIINC     |- T8, LEPROSY                .    |HEALTH       |- LABORATORIES
|- STATISTICAL    |- SEXUALLY       |COORDINATION  |- HEALTH A    |- L£-GISLATION
|SERVICE         |TRANSMITTED                         N  UTRITION   |UNIT
|            I ~~~~DISEASES                    |EDUCATION 
|+AIDS                         |              - VILLAGE
I                       |~~~~~~~~~- SANITATION     PHARMACY
|- OTHER                          | AND RURAL   |UNIT
|DISE-ASES                        W ORKS 
|- INSTITUTE                      |- FAidILY
|OF HYGMEE                      |PLANNING
I                       | ~~~~~~~UNIT
-1 EPIDEYIO-I
ILOCICAL                        |- NATIONAL
|SURVEILNCE                    |NUTRITION
|UNIT                            LABORATORY
- EC UNIT
tdo.:  J.b/d



- 54 -                                 Annex  III
Page 2 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH - PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM
EXSITTNG U0H INFRASTRUCTURE        NUMBER
Di)spnsairo Urbain (DU)                6                           PROVINCIAL HEALTH
(polyclin;c)                                                             SERVICE
and                                                          (PROSANTE)
Outpationt services and
maternity Ward of
ori e;..' noupital  (HP)
Disponsaire Urbxin (DU)                        |      UDICAL
(polyclinic)                         3e               SECTOR 2/        S-ctor 2-3                    4
and                                    (CIRCONSCRIFTION
Outpatient aervices and                               WEDICALE)
maternity word of
M*dical Surgical Hospital
(HUC) I
He lth
Diutr;ct 2........ .
1. Hopital Socondair.                            HEALTH DISTRICT
Simple (HSS)                     110              (DISTRICT)
2. Contre Medicat (CM)
1. Poet. do Sant4 (PS)                              ,H                                 . rH. 3..
(Combined PA A PT)
2. Post. d'Accouchoeent                       BASIC HEALTH FACILITY
(PA)                           . 2000      (FORMATION SANITAIRE
3. Posto d'infirAlor            -                    DE BASE)
(PI)
4. Centre do Soins de
Sant6 Primaire (CSSP)
* 11006            VILLA E HEALTH
COMMITTEE
(CSV)
LI     In towns whore HWC exists
2/     Over time thlo level is to bo supprossed
(doe.: *dgmad2/fd)



- 55 -                       Annex IV
Page 1 of 10
MADAGASCAR HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Lecter of Health Sector Development Policy
Monsieur Francisco Aguirre-sacasa
Directeur
D6partement des Pays des Grands Lacs
et de l'Oc6an Indien
Region Afrique
Banque Mondiale
Monsieur le Directeur,
J'ai l'honneur de vous faire part des politiques, de la
strat6gie de developpement et des objectifs que la R6publique Democratique
de Madagascar entend appliquer dans le secteur de la sante afin d'am6liorer
le taux de satisfaction des besoins essentiels de sante de la population et
d'accroitre l'efficacit6 de l'action publique. Une proposition de mise en
oeuvre de cette politique pour la periode 1992-96 est developp6e dans le
document intitule "Programme du Secteur de la Sante" (PSS) gui a Lt6
present6 a une Reunion des Bailleurs de fonds en Septembre 1990 et qui est
A la base de la requOte pr6sentee a L'Association Internationale pour le
D6veloppement pour le financement d'un projet de sant6. Ces propositions
de mise en oeuvre seront actualisees annuellement et soumises aux Bailleurs
sainteressant a concourir au financement du PSS dans le cadre de la
pr6paration de programmes annuels (annual work programs) et dans le cadre
d'un examen critique de la mise en oeuvre du PSS que mon Departement entend
entreprendre avant juillet 1994.
La strategie A long terme dans le secteur de la sant6 consiste
A d6velopper un systeme national de sante oa coexisteront un secteur public
rationalise et davantage orient& sur des services et activites d'int6r6t
public et un secteur priv6 autonome collaborant de maniere efficace avec
l'Etat a ameliorer l'6tat de sante de toute la population.  Au cours des
prochaines annees, la mise en oeuvre de cette strat6gie visera donc
particulierement a promouvoir une participation accrue du secteur priv6 a
la fourniture des soins m6dicaux et a la couverture des risques de sant6 et
une participation accrue des b6n6ficiaires au financement des coats des
services de sant6, y compris les medicaments essentiels pour le traitement
des problemes diagnostiques. Pour y parvenir cependant, il estt essentiel
que l'Etat rehabilite dans le proche avenir la capacite du secteur public A
fournir des soins de sant6 de base de qualite avec toute l'efficacite
voulue. Ceci permettra au systeme de sante public de regagner la confiance
de la population essentielle A sa mission de protection de la population et
de promotion du bien &tre 6conomique et social. Cette r6habilitation
suppose que les formations sanitaires de l'Etat soient en mesure d'etre en
tout temps approvisionn6es en medicaments et fournitures essentiels et que
son personnel soit recycl4 dans les techniques appropriees et motiv4 pour
remplir lee tAches qui lui sont assignees. Si ces objectifs necessitent
dans le court terme un recours plus important au financement offert par les
partenaires de developpement de la Republique D6mocratique de Madagascar,
la p6rennisation des objectifs recherches par cette strat6gie appelera un
effort budg6taire supplementaire de la part de L'Etat au cours des ann6es
prochaines.
La mise en place de la nouvelle programmation quinquennale
adoptee par le Ministere de la Sant6 pour la p6riode 1992-96 (Appendice 1)
n6cessitera l'adoption d'une serie de mesures visant &: (a) r6duire la



- 56 -                      Annex IV
Page 2 of 10
mortalit6 et la morbidit6 maternelles et infantiles en rendant accessible &
la population cible un ensemble de services de soine de sante primaires et
de lutte contre lee maladies transmissibles end6miques; (b) rendre
accessible aux couples malgaches des methodes modernes de contraception en
int6grant, de facon acc6l6r6e, les services de planification familiale au
moin des services de sant6 primaires; et (c) accrottre l'efficacit6 et
l'efficience du systeme sanitaire national en y introduisant des r6formes
tant dans les domaines techniques qu'administratifs et financiers, de
mani&re & am6liorer la performance des institutions A tous les niveaux de
la structure sanitaire.
Ces objectifs decoulent de l'analyse de la situation du systAme
sanitaire de sante qui montre que: (a) la mortalite et la morbidit6
maternelles et infantiles sont principalement dues (i) a la predominance de
certaines maladies infectieuses et parasitaires (maladies diarrh6iques,
malaria, infections respiratoires y inclus la tuberculose, maladies
sexuellement transmissibles), (ii) aux complications du post-partum et aux
oequelles d'avortement; (b) l'acces de la population a risque (m&re et
enfant) aux soins prioritaires de sant6 primaires de qualit6 reste tres
limit6e; (c) l'organisation actuelle des diff6rents niveaux (central,
provincial et periph6rique) de la structure sanitaire ne permet pas
d'assurer une couverture efficiente de la population en matiere de soins de
sant6; et (d) lea questions ayant trait au financement du secteur m6ritent
d'etre etudiees de facon detaillee afin d'assurer la disponibilit6 et une
meilleure allocation des ressources n6cessaires au maintien des programmes
de sante prioritaires.
Les mesures strategiques envisag6es (voir ci-dessous)
permettront de creer a la fin de la periode quinquennale les conditions
propices a la mise en place d'un systeme performant de sante a Madagascar.
Au cours de ce quinquennat, le MinistAre de la Sante accordera la priorite
A la r6habilitation du systAme de sante de base. Celle-ci se fera par la
r6novation et l'6quipement des structures sanitaires de base, par leur
approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels et la mise en place de reformes
dans l'organisation et la gestion des services de sante.  Ces diff6rents
4l6ments permettront au Ministere d'initier des activites et programmes
prioritaires qui se r6sument a un noyau dur incluant: (a) la prestation de
soins de sante primaires au groupe cible mere-enfant, (b) la lutte contre
les grandes end6mies, (c) l'approvisionnement en medicaments, notamment en
d6veloppant un r6seau de pharmacies villageoises, (d) l'encadrement et la
supervision du personnel et (e) la mobilisation sociale. La rehabilitation
des diff6rents niveaux d'orientation recours sera consid6r6e
ult6rieurement.
La politique d'offre des services mettra l'accent sur la
disponibilite & l'6chelon le plus peripherique d'un ensemble de soins de
sant6 prioritaires identifie au cours de l'analyse de la situation. Comme
mentionn6 ci-dessus, cette offre des services A la mare et a l'enfant
constitue pour nous la premiare priorite et reposera autant que possible
our le principe d'intearation des activit6s de sant6 au niveau p6ripherique
conform6ment a la politique de soine de sant6 primaires. Elle impliquera:
(a) la r6habilitation dans un premier temps des structures sanitaires de
base; (b) la fourniture de m6dicaments, d 6quipement et de materiel
essentiels a la prestation d'un niveau minimum de services (paquet minimum
d'activites); (c) la formation adequate du personnel de sante; et (d) la
mise en place de mecanismes de supervision et de suivi des activit6s sur le
terrain.
Le paquet minimum d'activites d6livr6 en peripherie comprendra:
(s) l'immunisation des enfants contre les principales maladies infectieuses
affectant ce groupe-cible; une couverture vaccinale de 80% de la population
cible est pr6vue pour la fin du quinquennat; (b) la disponibilit6 des
sachets de r6hydratation orale sur toute lXtendue du territoire pour



- 57-                       Annex IV
Page 3 of 10
lutter contre la deshydratation diarrheique et la ref6rence dee
complications vers lee niveaux-recours; (c) le contr6le des infections
respiratoires aigues et chroniques, la prestation de soine de sant6
pr6natals, perinatals et post-natals; (d) l'acces aux m6thodes modernes de
contraception a 40% de la population-cible par l'introduction des services
do planification familiale dans au moins 550 formations sanitaires. La
lutte contre lee endemies majeures, notamment le paludisme, la tuberculose,
la l6pre, la peste, le controle des maladies sexuellement tranomissibles y
compris le SIDA mettra l'accent sur le traitement des cas en p6riph6rie
(toutes les fois que ce traitement est possible) alors que les aspects de
contr6le et de depistage feront davantage partie de programmes centralis6s
de lutte contre ces end6mies.
La disponibilite reelle des services mentionn6s ci-dessus ne as
fera qu'en initiant un programme de r6formes institutionnelles qui
permettra a long terme de renforcer les processus geationnaires a tous leas
niveaux de la structure sanitaire. Ces reformes seront mises en place de
fagon progressive: (a) au niveau central, la restructuration et la
redefinition des r6les respectifs des principales directions et divisions
d6ja amorc6e se poursuivra durant le quinquennat. Ceci devrait permettre
au ministare (i) de renforcer ses fonctions de planification et de gestion;
(ii) de mobiliser et de coordonner l'aide exterieure pour une meilleure
utilisation des ressources; (iii) de developper un systeme d'information
pour une meilleure 6valuation et orientation des programmes;
(b) parallelement a ces r6formes, au niveau provincial, le role du midecin
pro-sant& et lea competences de son 6quipe pluridisciplinaire seront
renforc6s ainsi que la coordination de ce niveau avec le niveau central;
(c) au niveau p6ripherique, l'accent sera mis sur l'organisation ax6e sur
le district. Cette organisation sera initiee par une phase pilote appuy6e
par 1'OMS et le PNUD. Elle necessitera: (a) la fo;rmation int6ar6e des
m6decins d- district et des medecins inspecteurs qui aura pour but
d'am6liorer leura competences A d6livrer le paquet minimum d'activit6s
mentionn6 plus haut et (b) la formation sp6cifictue de ces memes groupes
dans des domaines revetant un caractere nouveau et particulier pour le
personnel de sant6 comme la planification familiale, les maladies
transmissibles. Cette formation sera encadr6e dans chaque province par une
6quipe comprenant un noyau de formateurs qui aura pour mission de g6rer
cette formation. Une fois cette formation realis6e, d'autres r6formes en
matiere de gestion et d'organisation des services seront initi6es d'ici fin
1993 afin de creer un environnement susceptible d'accroitre l'acces de la
population aux soins de sante de base. Ces reformes inclueront: (a) le
redeploiement du personnel entre les differents niveaux; (b) la mise en
place d'un systame d'approvisionnement en medicaments et la d6finition
d'une politique pharmaceutique qui precisera i) le r6le de l'etat dans la
r6gulation des circuits de distribution, dans la defense des interets des
producteurs et des consommateurs et ii) la revue des listes de produits
agrees; (c) i'entretien du materiel et des bAtiments.
La participation de la communaut6 est un 6l.ment important au
renforcement et A l'utilisation rationnelle du systeme de sant6. C'est
pourquoi un effort serieux sera entrepris pour renforcer les capacit6s
institutionnelles du ministare en matiere de mobilisation sociale. Celle-
ci visera a (a) sensibiliser la population aux problemes de sant6
prioritaires et (b) encourager la participation populaire a la gestion des
programmes de sant6. Les activitEs de promotion et de soutien de la
population au systeme de sant6 d6pendront des capacit6s du personnel
sanitaire et de son encadrement et du developpement de relations entre lea
formations sanitaires et les comites de sante villageois, les collectivit6s
locales, les elus et les responsables de la communaut6.
Afin d'assurer le plein succAs des reformes entreprises, le
minist4re de la sante encouragera et soutiendra les initiatives des
organismes non gouvernementaux et prives qui s'integrent dans le plan



- 58 -                       Annex IV
Page 4 of 10
national de sant4 et apportent une complfmentarlt6 aux services publics.
Dane ce contexte, le ministEre preparera un cadre conventionnel d6finissant
lea r6les de l'6tat, des secteurs priv6 et non gouvernemental dans la
prestation des services A la population ainsi que les m6canismes de
collaboration entre ces trois entit6s d'ici 1994. Cette activit6 sera
appuy6e par un effort de mobilisation des organismes non-gouvernementaux.
De plus, la volonte de rationalisation du systeme de sant6 se
mat6rialisera par: (a) l'amelioration de l'allocation des ressources, en
proc6dant entre autres A une revue annuelle des depenses publiques; (b) la
recherche et la d6finition d'un systeme de recouvrement des coats afin
d'encourager la participation de la population au financement des d6penses
de sante. Dans ce contexte, la definition d'une politique de recouvrement
des coits des m6dicaments, letablissement de tarifs des actes medicaux et
param6dicaux se feront une fois que les capacites de la population a
assumer ces d6penses auront ete evaluees; et (c) la coordinatio.a de
l'intervention des bailleurs de fonds en organisant une rencontre annuelle
avec ces bailleurs au cours de laquelle le ministere pr6e~ntera sa
programmation annuelle. Ces mesures seront progressivement introduites en
1992 et 1993. Le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles du ministere
au niveau central prevoit A cet effet l'appui A une cellule de suivi des
projets recemment creee dont le role principal sera de coordonner l'aide
exterieure, d'en assurer le suivi et de l'integrer de fagon optimale dans
la programmation sanitaire.
L'Appendice 2 joint A cette lettre pr6sente le tableau r6sumant lea
atrat6gies et activites majeures envisagees au cours de ce quinquennat,
ainsi que les indicateurs permettant le suivi de ces strat6gies et
activites. I1 convient encore une fois de souligner que ces r6formes se
poursuivront bien au-dela de la periode consideree. De leur succes
dependra la mise en place du programme operationnel pr6vu pour ce
quinquennat.
Antananarivo, le 29 Avril 1991
Le Ministre de la Sante
Signe
Dr. SERAPHTN Jean Jacques
Pour Le Gouvernement
Le Premier Ministre
Chef du Gouvernement
Sign6
Colonel RAMAHATRA Victor



59                                 Annex IV
Page 5 of 10
Appendice I
PROGRAMME SANITAIRE QUINQUENNAL 1992-96
A. Objectifs et strategies
1.          Le Programme sectoriel de sante (PSS) renforce les
politiques du Gouvernement pour le secteur de la sante et definit, pour
la periode 1992-1996, les principaux programmes, activites et strat6gies
permettant d'atteindre les objectifs nationaux ci-apres :
(a)   Reduction de la mortalitd et de la morbidit6 en appuyant (i) la
fourniture d'un paquet minimum d'activites de soins de sante
primaires (SSP) pour pr6venir et traiter de maniere efficace et
dconomique, les maladies et les probl6mes de sante les plus
courants grAce au reseau national de formations sanitaires g6rdes
par le Ministere de la sante (MS), et (ii) la mise en oeuvre de
programmes integres de lutte contre les maladies transmissibles
les plus graves. Ces programmes profiteraient surtout aux groupes
les plus vulnerables composes d'enfants et de femmes en Age de
procreer.
(b)   Regulation des niveaux de f4condit4 comme le recommande la
Politique nationale de population (PNP), en integrant rapidement
dans le paquet minimum d'activites de SSP les activites de
planning familial efficaces et pleinement justifiees au plan de la
sante. Cela permettrait aux couples malgaches d'acceder plus
facilement aux informations et services de plarning familial
necessaires pour parvenir aux objectifs dnoncd, dans la PNP a
savoir: la reduction du taux global de fecondite.
(c)   Promotion de l'efficacit6 et de la viabilite des depenses
publiques pour la sante par (i) la rationalisation/la r6formw:
la structure, de la gestion et des pratiques techniques du systeme
de sante publique; (ii) la mise en place d'un systeme efficace de
formation continue pour tous les agents du MS; (iii) le
renforcement de la coordination et de la gestion de l'aide au sein
du MS; (iv) la mise au point de systemes et proc4dures pour
mobiliser les agents du secteur prive et des ONG dans la
prestation de soins de sante et pour coordonner leurs efforts avec
les programmes du secteur public; (v) l'introduction de m6canismes
de recouvrement des coQts pour encourager la participation de la
population au financement des programmes de sant6 publique; et
(vi) le demarrage d'etudes sectorielles cle pour preparer les
futurs ajustements sectoriels.
2.          La strategie qui sous-tend le PSS repose sur des principes
selon lesquels on doit en tout premier lieu:
(a)   Appuyer le systbme sectoriel de sartd publicue existant qui offre
le reseau le plus dense d'installations de sante et permet le
deploiement le plus important de personnel specialise I
Madagascar, capable de desservir plus apq Aoiux tiers de la
population dans son ensemble.



- 60 -                                 Annex IV
Page 6 of 10
Appendice I
(b)   Rdhabiliter les infrastructures de prestations de services de
sante au niveau des soins primaires_et, pour ce qui est des
maladies transmissibles, les unit6s sp6cialis6es de la DLMT afin
.d'ameliorer l'impact des programmes les mieux I mAme de repondre
aux besoins de la population en matilre de soins de base. Apres
quelque temps, il faudra completer la stratdgie qui consiste &
demarrer les operations a la base de la pyramide des services de
sante par des programmes visant a renforcer les centres
d'orientation recours du premier niveau et les h6pitaux
fournissant des services et des soins plus sp6cialisds.
(c)   Recycler le personnel de sante du MS pour lui permettre d'executer
les programmes sectoriels de sante de maniere efficace et rapide.
(d)   Elaborer un systeme de gestion interne par objectifs qui delegue
les responsabilites et les ressources au niveau des executants,
r6compense ceux qui prennent des initiative§ et rend responsables
les agents concernes de la bonne utilisation des ressources.
(e)   Reorienter progressivement l'intervention de l'Etat dans la
prestation des soins de sante vers des activites entrant dans le
domaine des biens publics et permettant a des groupes desh6rites
d'avoir acc&s aux services de sante de base.
(f)   Consolider les programmes d'aide et de cooperation des bailleurs
de fonds exterieurs et des autres agences de cooperation autour du
PSS en renforcant les mecanismes de coordination de l'aide au
niveau du MS et en Ilaborant de nouveaux instruments de
cooperation avec les ONG et les services de sante du secteur
priv6.
B. Le Programme Sectoriel de Sant6 - Description sommaire
3.          Le PSS indique quels seront les principaux objectifs,
strategies et activites des programmes prioritaires de prdvention et de
gestion et d'un programme de reformes institutionnelles, pendant la
periode de 1992 a 1996:
Prevention des maladies et gestion
(a)   Maladies transmissibles: elaboration et mise en oeuvre de
programmes d'ensemble de lutte contre le paludisme, la
tuberculose, les MST dont le SIDA, la lepre et la peste, et mise
au point d'un systeme de surveillance epidemiologique pour
orienter les activites du MS et evaluer les strategies et
programmes de lutte contre les maladies transmissibles.



- 61 -                                 Annex IV
Page 7 of 10
Appendice I
(b)   Planning familial: introduction/renovation des services de PF
offerts comme partie int6grante des soins SMI dans un minimum de
500 cliniques du MS pour que la population urbaine puisse acceder
assez facilement aux informations et aux services modernes de
contraception, l'objectif etant d'atteindre environ 40Z de la
population totale ciblee composee de femmes en age de procreer
d'ici 1996.
(c)   Soins de sante primaires: renforcement de la fourniture dans tout
le pays d'un paquet minimum d'activites de SSP comprenant la
vaccination des enfants (PEV), la lutte contre la diarrhee et les
affections respiratoires, les soins pre, peri et post-nataux,
l'Fducation en matiere de sante et de nutrition; et introduction
de systbmes oa les beneficiaires participeraient au financement du
coit des prestations de certains services curatifs.
Rformes institutionnelles
Sd)   Gestion du district sanitaire: conception et realisation de la
premi&re phase d'un progranme de reformes institutionnelles a long
terme visant a (i) restructurer et renforcer progressivement le
systeme de prestations de soins de sante .du MS; (ii) ameliorer la
rentabilite de la prestation des services en renforcant les
systemes et procedures de gestion; et (iii) encourager une plus
grande participation communautaire/populaire & la conception et a
la mise en oeuvre des programmes de sante.
(e)   Planification et programmation: renforcement des principaux
systemes et procedures du MS et de la base en ressources humaines
pour: (i) la planification, programmation, budg6tisation et
Ovaluation sectorielles, (ii) la mobilisation et la coordination
des flux d'aide et des agences de cooperation pour la mise en
oeuvre des programmes nationaux de sant6, (iii) la conception et
la fourniture de services de formation continue et leur suivi; et
(iv) la fourniture d'un appui logistique et notamment
l'acquisition et la distribution de medicaments et de materiel
medical, la collecte et l'analyse de donnees sur la sante, les
activites de mobilisation sociale et un entretien minimum des
installations et de l'equipement de sante.



INDICATEURS PRINCIPAUX DES ACTIVITES
1992     1993       1994      1995      1996
I. Rehabilitation du systime de sante de
base:
- Nombre de formations sanitaires r6no-          20      132      132         83        83
vdes et equipdes (550)
- Definition d'une liste standardisee de
medicaments                                   X
- Elaboration de procedures de commandes
et de distribution de medicaments             X
- Elaboration d'un plan de supervision
integre et de suivi des activites             X
- Execution de ce plan                          X         X         X          X        X
- Disponibilite des services de base de
SSP:
* Immunisation (80X de couverture)                                                    x
* Lutte contre les maladies
diarrheiques (disponibilite des
sachets de rehydratation orale a 100Z                                              x
de la population cible)
* Planificatiorn familiale:
- (introduction des services dans 550
formations sanitaires)                   20       132       132        83        83
- Fcrmation du personnel                    20       300       300       160       160
* Malaria: - Formation de volontaires
villageois (16,080)              X         X         X         x         x
- Formation d'un corps de
malario-logistes                 X         X         X
- Developpement et application de                                                                      >
protocole de traitement des cas
aigus et resistants                       X         X         X         X         X
- Developpement d'une campagne
d'information                             X                   X         X         X
x
co



INDICATEURS PRINCIPAUX DES ACTIVITES
________________________________________________  1992  1993      1994      1995      1996
* Tuberculose/lepre:
- Traitement de tous les cas d6tect6s        X         X         X        X          X
- Generalisation de la polychimio-
therapie pour les cas infectieux                                                   X
 Peste: Mise en place de mesures de
contrOle effectives dans les zones a
risque                                       X         X         X        x          x
* HST
- IEC                                        X
- Generalisation du traitement des MST
courantes                                  X         X         X        X          X
- Surveillance epidemiologique               X         X         X        X          X
1I. Renforcement institutionnel
- Niveau central: renforcement de l'unite                                                                      a
de gestion des projets                       X
- Creation d'une direction de LMT (d6JA
realise)
- Restructuration de la DSC                    X
- Redefinition des rOles et attributions
des differentes sections et divisions du
Ministere                                    X
- Developpement d'un systeme d'information               X
- Elaboration d je politique pharma-
ceutique                                               X
- Niveau provincial:                                                                                     >
- Redefinition du rOle du Prosante dans
le systeme sanitaire                         X
- Creation d'un noyau de formateurs par
province                                     X
- Evaluation des besoins en formation          X
-Elaboration de curricula                      X
- Elaboration d'un plan de formation
decentralisee                                X
0



INDICATEURS PRINCIPAUX DES ACTIVITES
________________________________________________   1992  1993     1994      1995      1996
- Niveau peripherique:
- Formation des medecins inspecteurs, des
medecins de district et des medecins
affectes aux differents niveaux de
reference (350)                              X         X
- Formation du personnel paramedical
(2065)                                       X         X        X         X         X
- Etude pilote sur l'organisation des
services ax6e sur le district                X
- Hise en place de la nouvelle organi-
sation sanitaire axle sur le district                  X        X         X         X
III. Mobilisation sociale
- Definition d'une politique de mobili-
sation sociale                               X
- Renforcement des capacites institu-
tionnelles du Ministere en maniere d'IEC               X
- Integration de l'IEC dans la formation
du personnel                                           X
IV. Participation du secteur priv4 et non-
gouvernemental a la mise en place du
programme sanitaire
- Definition du cadre conventionnel                      X
V. Rationalisation du systeme de sante
-Reunion annuelle des Lailleurs de fonds       X        X         X         X         X
- Revue annuelle des depenses publiques        X         X        X         X         X
- Definition d'un systbmte de recouvrement
des coftts                                             X         X
- Hise en place de ce systame                                               X         X
- Coordination de l intervention des
bailleurs de fonds                           X         X         X        X          X
x
O c



IIE P UStIOO   E  :N AODA GA SL4A*A
PROGRUVIE SECTORIEL SANTE
Suary Account by Project Comonent
IFNG Pi IlIionI
A. MALADIES IRANSMIS.                 S. SMI/FP C. AUTRES SANT PRIM  0. RENF. INSFTI..   TAXLS                 Physical
Sury.           --SM!--            Syateme      Gestion                             -----------
Malaria   IS  tepee Stda/MST Pest.  Epido. IEC        --Pf--  PEV- Vacc. --FSSP--       perif   UP.UGP   ----   lotal        I    AMount
A. CIVIL NMOW$                                                          125            4.846                1,600      2.005        -             8,5575   10.0     858
B. EIIIIPEKNI
Equip nt                       458    275   ISO    1.915       94    349  192         6560               3, 153        77      434         - 7.521   10.0        752
Vahiculas                    1.171     so      -        -    134       - 468            -           -        -         125     267         - 2.216   10.0        222
Sub-Total EWNIKENET             1.660    325   ISO    1.915    227    349  560           660           -    3.183         202     702         -10.03?   10.0   1.004
C. TECH. ALSSIST.
foreign                        3M                                                     190 - - -  S           -        541   1.185          -   2.226    0. 0       0
local-                                   -     -                -      -    --- -                                      30             -           30    0.0        0
Sub-total TECH. ASSIST.           306       -     -         -                            190           -        -        571   I. 105             2,256    0.0        0
3. LIMES                             -      -     -         -      -      -     ----                                        -   1.345         - 1.345    0. 0         0
E. FOWATION
FUElS N                              -      -         100      20      -    -          67-                   -         35             -          225    0.0        0
tocal                        t107      79      -       67      60      -    -         126           -        -        211      154         - 2.534    0.0          0
Satb-Total FCUIATIUN            2.107      79     -       I67     s0      -    -         193           -        -         249     154         -   3.059    0.0        0
tostal IUWESTHEUT COSTS            4.072    407   150    2.082    307    475  660         5.890           -    4,783       3.028   3.419         -  25. 274    7. 4   1.861
II. KatweFui COSTS
A. OKUATIONS
Equip. mint.                    -       -     -        -       -      - 79             -           -        -         25      4256              530   10. 0      53
Veld. apert.                    -       -            S 43    405      -    -          52           -       13         192       -         - 1. 217   10. 0      122
Slip. 8 trawel                802       -     -       72      67    351   52         209       1.044        -         142       -         - 2.739    0.0          0
Geneal                      2.338    311      -         -      -     I?    -           -           -      110           -     Sao             3.756   10.0     376
Snpas 51/I                  9.336    97       -      351  _3.115           -         597      i. 253    7.802           -       -         -23.962    0.0          0
Sat-Ttotl OMRAIIUS            13. 075  2. 215           966  3. 591    368  130         867      2.298    7.925          359   1.406         - 32. 204    i.?      550s
IL ITI-                                    - -     -          -       -     -        -          -          -         -             -    2.172   2.1f72    0. 0       0
Total VESUENI muST                is. aii  1.218     -       9S6  3.591    368  130         567       2.298    7. 9235       359   1. 405    2. 172  34. 375    1. 6   550
Total SASELII mOIS                  iv. 145  1.625   150    3.048  3.59M    842  790       6,757      2.290   12.708        3.387   4.825    2.172  59.649    4.0   2.412
Physical Contingencies             400      54    IS      246      63     49   74         557           -      491         242     211         - 2,412    0.0          0
Price Conti go cie$              2.571    211    15        384    498    189   71         942         529    1.906         835     695        8- .944    3.5         343
Total PMUCT COSTS                    21.22   1. 900   150    3.675  4.460  1.081  135      5.255       2.526   15.104       4. 464   5.731    2. 12  71.005    3. 9   2.755
foreign Eachenige                S.6.74  1.33   I"O    3.532  4.316    632  571         7.8332      1.525   13.645      2.2135   4.506         -   7. 781    4.0   2.337
fpwll 23. liI It)?7
00
0'



R E P U 8 t I Q U E DE N A D A 6 A S C A R
PROGRANNE SEClORIEL SANTE
Proj.et Comonents by Year
Totals Including Contingncies                           Totals Including Contirnpncis
(FNG Million)                                              (US$ '0001
Si     99       93      94       95      96    Total        91     92      93     94      95     96   Total
A. A. RAlADIES IRANSNIS.
Warta                                  841   3,955   3.625   3.926   3.969   3.903  20.219         503  2.367  2 169  2.350  2.375  2.336  12. 100
F8                                      78      246     523      286     437      331   1.900       47    147    313    IIl    252    198   1. 137
tst                                      -       77      60        -       43       -      Igo        -     46     36       -     26       -      10I
Sitd/NST                               543      574     559      638      670     694   3.678      325    343    335    382    401    41S   2.201
Pssto                                   178     799     771   1.015       896     801   4.460       106    478    461    607    536    480   2,669
Swv. Epido.                               -     23t    256       237      186     163   1,081         -    142    153    142    IlI       98     647
IEC                                      -      758      29       34      72       42      935       -    453      17      21     43      25     559
Sub-Total A  1A14DIES TRANSNIS.          1.640   6. 646   5.822   6.136   6.273   5.935  32.452        981  I1 977  3.484  3.672  3.754  3.552  19.421
8, S. SI/IFP
--SNI--    --PF--                      187   1.242   1.849   2.110   1.843   1.024   8.255         112    743  1,106  1,263  1.103    613   4.940
Sub-Total 8. SNI1/fP                       17   1.242   1.849   2.110   1,843   1.024   8.255          112    743  .;106  1,263  1,103    613   4.940
C. C. AUTRES SAIT PRIN
PEV- Vacc.                                -     505     535      565      595     626   2.826         -    302    320    338    356    374   1.691
Systw_   --FSSP--                         -   3. 228   2. 639   2. 877   3. 107   3. 253  15. 104     -  1. 932  1. 579  1, 722  1. 859  1. 947   9. 039
Sub-Total C. AUTRES SANT PRI                 -   3.733   3.174   3.443   3.702   3.878  17.930           -  2.234  1.900  2.060  2.215  2.321  10. 730
0.  D. RENF. INSTIT..
Gestion perif                           192     941      849     774      812     897   4.464       115    563    508    463    486    537   2.672
UP.UGP                                  614   1.133   1.430   1. 183      859     510   5.731       368    678    856    708    514    305   3,429
------   -------     ------    ------- -----  ------  -- -- ---  - -- - --  - -- - --   - -- - --   --- - --   - -- - --   --- - --   - - - - - --
Sub-Total  0. OEN, INSTIT..                806   2.074   2.279   1,957   1. 671   1.407  10. 195       483  1. 241  1.364  1. 171  1. 000    842   6, 101                                                              a
E. TRiXES
--TUT--    ----                           -     434     434      434      434     434   2.172         -    260    260    260    260    260   1,300
Sub-Total TAIES                              -     434      434     434      434      434   2.172        -    260    260    260    260    260   1, 300
Total PIIJECT COSTS                        2.633  14. 129  13.559  14.081  13.924  12.679  71.00S   1.576  8.456  8. 114  _8427  8.333  7.588  42.493
::::: = ::: := z==:== ::==;=:: :::;:::            --:: ::== :::;:::  ::;:::        -- :::;::;:    :==:: ;:::z ;=:
April 23. I99I  10-27
i
torn
.0Q
1h



R E P U B L I O U    DE0      A D A G A S C A R
PROGRAIR4E SECTORIEL SANTE
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies
IfItC Itllion)                                              1US$ '0001
91     92       93       94       95      96    Total        91      92     93      94      95     96   Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIvil WORKS                     187   1.851   2,502   2.610   2,360   1.582  11.152          112  1. 107  1.497  1.598  1.412    947   6,674
B. EQUIPENENT
Equipent                       669   2.542   1.566   1.490   1.729   1.534   9,529           400  1.521    937    892  1.035    918   5.703
Vehicules                      701   1. 121      210      341      162      55   2.591       420    671    126    204        97     33   1550
Sub-Total EQUIPENENT             1,370   3,663   1.776   1.831   1.891   1,589  12. 120         820  2.192  1.063  1.096  1, 132    951   7.253
C. TECH. ASSIST.
foreign                        271      648      578      423     443      116   2.479       162    388    346    253    265        69   1.484
Local                             - II             6        7        7       8       39        -       7      4       4       4      5       23
Sub-Total TECH. ASSIST.            271      659     584      429      450      123   2.518      162    395    350    257    270         74   1,507
0. ETUDES                           17      375     596      437       8O        -   1.505       10    224    357    261        48       -     900
E. EORNAT ION
fOREIGN                         102      21       84        -       12      20      239       61      13     SO       -       7     12      143
local                          285      589      659      726     668      650   3.578       170    353    394    435    400    389   2. 141
Sub-fotal FORIAIION                387     610      743      726      680      670   3.817      231    365    445    435    407    401   2.284
lotal INVESTM1E'4T COSTS            2.232   7.158   6.201   6.093   5.462   3.965  31 111   1 336  4.284  3.711  3.646  3.269  2.373  18.618
11. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
-_
A. OPERATIONS
Equip. mint.                    6      fig      124      132      141     139      656        3     68      74      79     84      83      393
Vehl. operat.                  69      212      225      270     386      351   1.512        41    127    135    161    231    210         905
Stip. 8 travel                 141     548      626      806     7S1      781   3,681        84    328    375    482    467    467   2,203
Genral                         169     831      874      942   1.003   1,048   4.866        101    497    523    564    600    627   2.912
Drugs I T/1                     17   4,832   5,075   5,403   5.717   5,962  27.006           10  2,892  3.037  3,233  3,421  3.568  16. 161
Sub-Total OPERATIONS              401   6.537   6.923   7.553   8.027   8.280  37.722          240  3.912  4,143  4.520  4,804  4.955  22.574
8. TUT                              -     434      434      434      434     434   2, 172        -    260    260    260    260    260   1.300
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 401   6.971   7.358   7.988   8,462   8.714  39.894          240  4,112  4.403  4.780  5.054  5,215  23,874
=:===== ==-z===  ==z==::: ==:===:: :=-::,: =::=::: ::::::-  ::=-:  :::  ::     =   ==:  =   ::=    :=   ::==-
lotal PROJECI COSTS                  2.633  14, 129  13.,59  14,081  13.924  12.679  71.005   1.576  8,456  8,114  8,427  8.333  7.588  42,493:
April 23. 1991  10:27
S :3
0w  P
C
t-
0%



R E P U 6 L I Q U E  DE  1 A D A G A      A R
PROGRAMRE SECTORIEL SANTE
table t1. PROGRAMME PALUDISNIE-INVESTISSEMENTS
Detailod Cost Table
(FNG Million)
Totals ,ncluding Contingencies
Quantity                                    Totals Including Contingencies                     1USS Io"3
91   92    93    94    95    96    Total    Unit Cost   91   92   93   94   95   96  lotal    91   92   93   94   95   96  Total
1. INVESTMENT CoSTS
A. VENIClltES
1 Chiiotherepie                  -      I     -     -      I     -        2         S25     - 48       -        53    -    102      - 29    -    - 32    -           6t
2. ANTIVECTORIEL
liaison                       -     2      -     -      I     -        3         $15         58    -    -   32    -       90     - 35    -    - 19    -           54
Pick-u                       11      S 5                -     -       21         $25   5l1  242    -  258    -         1.014   308  145    -   5SS    -    -    607
Mtos                          -    10    30o            7     -       2           $3      -58  60        -  45           163      - 35   36    -   27    -        97
Sit-Total A1TIVECTORIEL                                                                   514  358   60  258   77    -  1. 267   308  214   36  ISS   46    -    758
Sib-Total VENICULES                                                                          514  406   60  258  130    -  1.369   308  243   36  155   78    -    819
B. EQUIPEmENT
I. ANTIVECTORIEt
Ptlverisateurs                -   200   200   200   200   201   1t001           0. 15     -  58   60   62   64   67    311       -   35   36   37   38   40    186
Habits de protection          -   400   400   400   400   400    2.000         S.025      - 9   20   21   21   22    103          -   12   12   12   13   13      62
Sub-lotal ANTIVECTORIEL                                                                      -   77   so   83   SS   89    414       -   46   48   49   SI   53    248
2.  RAECRICE                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
Microscops                    -      I     -     -      -     -         I        $20      - 39    -    -    -    -        39      -  23    -    -    -    -       23
ster microac                  -      1     -     -      - I                      - 1  $       19    --                            -   12               -          12 
Group *lIc.                   -      I     -     -      -     -         1         52     -    4    -    -    -    -        4     -    2    -    -    -    -        2                                        1
Not. Camping                  -      I     -     -      -     -         I         $4     -    a    -    -    -    -        8      -    5    -    -    -    -       5
Ordineteurs                   -      I     -     -      I     -        2         Sll     -21    -    - 24    -            45     -   13    -    -   14    -       27
Papier                        -            -            I              2          S3     -    6    -    -    6    -       12     -    3    -    -    4    -        7
Consombles                    -      I     -     1      -     -        2          $3     -    6    -    6    -    -       12     -    3    -    4    -    -        7
Ioustiquires                  -                                                    o -   -$1  -    -   10    -   II    -  21     -    -    S    -    6            12
Rideaux                       -      -     -     -      -     -        -         $12           -   12    -   13    -      25           -    7    -    8    -      IS
Sub-totsl ECINERCNE                                                                          -102   22    6   53    -    184         -   61   13    4   32    -    ;;0
3. FOBISTION IEITI               -      -     -     -      -     -         -                12   13   14  IS   16   17       88     7    8    9    9   10   10       53
Sub-Total EOUIPEMIIEI                                                                          12  193  116  104  ISS  1O6    687       7  115   70   62   13   63    411
C. SEMINAIES
1. NOIIME VECTEUR
Activit Ediac                 -      -     -     -      -     -        -         $24     -   11   12   13   14    -       51     -         1    7    8    8    -  30
Sub-Total MNM4E VECTEUR                                                                      -1   12  1314             -     51           7    7    8    £    -      30
2. EVALUATIONI                   -      -     -     -      -     -         -                     55   62   72   79   91    358           33   37   43   47   54    214
Sib-Total SEMINAIRES                                                                            -   67   74   85   93   91    409       -   40   44   St  56   54    245
Total INVESTEtNT COSTS                                                                          526  666  250  447  378  19t 2.464   31S  398  ISO  268  226  118  1.475
:=== ==== ==== :===  ,    ====  ====:=  -=:  =z= -,  ==== _== .=-zz
Total                                                                                            526  666  250  447  378  197  2.464   315  398  150  258  226  118  1.475 15                                          .
t=== r=== r::=== :=== ==== ===s= =::0 :::0 ±:f:  0:::  :::: 0fl< 0:=: :::::=                           
April 23. 1991  10t27                                                                                                                                                                                             0  C
0



R E PUO L I OU E JIE   AD0A GA S CA R
PROGRAMMIE SECTORIEL SANTE
Table 12. PROGRAMME PALUDISME-CHARGES RECURRENTES
Detailed Cost table
(fNG Millionl
Totals Including Cont agencies
Quantity                                                         Totals Including Contingencies                                      1US$ 10001
91        92        93        94          95        96      Total    UJnit Cost   91    92         93     _94      95      265   Total      91    92       93      94      95      96   Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. FORNAlION                                                                                                $59219   174    414    446    478    509    540   2. 561   104    248    267    286    304    323   1. 533
8. MEDICAMENTS
I. Chimiotherapi.
Chiloroquine                    -         -         -           -         -                    --                       162    156    152    148        145      762      -      97      94      91      88      87      456
Autres Medic.                   -         -         -           -         -         -          --                       633    609    609    606    607   3.063           -     379    364    364    363    363   1.833
Autres Medic.                   -         -         -           -         -         -          --                       246    254    244    245    241   1.230           -     147    152      146    146    144        736
ANFTIVECIORIEL                  -                                                                     59650       -  1.142  l,l81  1,221  1.263  1.306   6.113            -    684    707    73i    756    781   3.658
Sub-Total Chimiothgrapis                                                                                             -  2. 182  2.200  2.226  2.261  2.298  11. 188          -  I 306  1. 317  1.332  1.353  1.375   6.683
Sit-Total MEDICAMENTS                                                                                                    -  2.182  2.200  2.226  2.261  2.298   It. 168          -  1.306  1. 317  1.232  1.353  1.375   6. 683
C. EIIIRETIENI
1. Control Vector.
Vehicles                        -         -         -           -         -         -          -       $290       -     112     116    120    124       128      600      -      67      69      72      74      77      359
Pulverisateurs                  -         -         -           -                   -          -         $30      -      12      12      12      13      13       62      -               7       7       8       8       37
Sub-local Control Vector.                                                                                            -    124      128     132    137    141        662      -      74      77      79      82      85      396
2. Chimotherapie
Vahici. Op.                                         -           .         -                            $770       -    298    308    318    329    340   1. 593           -     178    284    190       Ifl    204      953 
Sub-Total Chimotherapie                                                                                              -     298    308    318    329    340   1.593           -     178    184      190    19?    204        953
3. Recherch.
Vehicles                        -         .         -           -         -         -          -        $25       -       8       8       8      Il      13       48      -       5       5       5       6       8       39
Tranaprt                        -         -         -           -         -         -         -         $34       -      12     13       16     20      21       83       -      7       8       10     12      13       50
Fondt.                          -         -         -           -         -         -         -        $251       -     97    104      118     130    145       593       -     58      £2      70      78      87      355
Sub-Total Recherche                                                                                                  -    117    125    142    ISO    180           724      -      10      75      85      96     10?      433
Sut-iota1 ENTRETIENI                                                                                                     -    538    561    593    626    661   2.979           -     322    336    355    37'S    396   1.783
0. INOEMNITES
I.  Control Vectorial              -         -         -           -         -         -         -       S61EO6   105      116    126    136    144    156         785    63       69      75      RI      87      93      470
2. Recherche                       -         -          -                    -         -          -       $6920    35       39      42      45      49      52      262    21       23      25      27      29      31      157'
Sit-Total INDEMIIITES                                                                                                 141    154    168    182        1       204    1.04?     84      92     101     l0t    Its    124        626
bIda  RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                     315  3.2819  3,375  3.479  _3.S91  3.706  I7. 755   _188  1I.968  2.020  2.082  2.149  2.218  10.625
Tnata                                                                                                                      315  3.289  3,375  3.479  _3.591  _3.706  1?, 755   _188  _I.968  2.020  2.082  2.149  2.218  10. 625
April 23. 1991 10:27
10(0
x
Ut-
0



R E P U81 1Q96U  DE M AD0A GA S CAR
PROGRAMMIE SECTORIEL SAN1E
Table 13. TUBERCULOSE
Detailed Cost Table
11FMG Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                 Totals Including Contingencies                             1us$ '0001
-- -- ---- - -- ---- -- - - --- -- - ---- -  Un it  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  -  -  - - -  -    - -  - -  - -  - -
91   92    93    94    95    SD    Total        Cost  91    D2    93    94    95   96  Total    91   92    93    94    95    96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.   EQUIP LAS                                                                      $167      -     -233         -107        -     340      -     -139         -    4      -     203
A. VEHIICLES                          -      -     t     -     I     -          2   $15       -     - 30         - 32        -       62     -           I      -    19     -       37
C. FORMATION
Local                                                                        -   $47    38      9    10    11    12    12        93    23     6      6     7     7     7       56
Sub-Total FORMATION                                                                          38     9    10    II    12    12        93   23      6     6      7     7     7      56
Total INIVESTMENT COSS~                                                                         38      9  273    It  151    12        495    23      A   I153    7   90       7     296
1i. RECURRENT COSTS
A. FONCTIONNENENT
1. Vehicules--                                                                  $49      -    19    IA   21   21   22         101      -    12    11    12    13    13       61
2-  Autres frais fonict.-- $137    22    48   50    52    53   55                                                             281    13   29    30    31   32    33          168
Sub-Total IONCTIONNEENET                                                                   22    68    68    72    75    27       382    13   40    41   43    45    46         229
A. PROD. PHARR.
I.. Medicantnts-- $350                                                                   -  149   164   188   194  241        935      -   89    98   112   116   144       560 
2. Prod. chimaques--                                                            $4A    27    19    IS    t5    17       -       A7    10    12    It      9    10     -       52o
Sub-Total PROD. PIIARN.                                                                     I?  169   182  203  212  241   1. 023    20  1D)109o  221  127   144                612
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                            39  236  250  275  287  318   1.406    24   141   149   165   lIt   t91             841
Total                                                                                             78  246  523  286  437  331   1,900    47   147  313   171  262   198  1. 137
aApril 23.  1991   10:,27
Pt'
0"



R E P U B L I Q U E DE M A D A G A S C A R
PROGRAMME SECTORIEI SANTE
Table 14. tEPRE
Detailed Cost Table
fTMG  Million)
lotals  Including  Contingencies
Quntity                                       totals  Including Contingencies                           (IUS$   0001
--------------------    --- --------- ---    ------          Unit   -------------       -------- ----------      --- -------------------Unit----
91    92    93    94          95          96      Total   Cost    91  92   93   94   95   96   Total    91   92   93   94   95   96   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  EQUIPMENT                 -      -      -     -            -           -       -    $90             77   60         43           180       -   46   36          26          108
Total INVESTMENT  COSTS                                                                                -77   60    -  43    -    10               -46   36    -  26    -    10
:::   ==  ---=:  :===zz-= ==:  =:: ::::    ::::                           ===::::   :   :::::
Total                                                                                                    -77   60   -        43           lO         -46   36    -  26    -    10l
:zz=== ::    :::: :   ::: :::::   :=::::   =:: ::=  =:: :::                     =:::
pril 23.  1991   10:27
a-
t-
OQ :
nID
x
- o
.-



PJ  I FU 8 t I Q U I  BE  NI A S A    A S C A R
PSOBRANNE SECTORIEt SAUTE
lable IS. SDOA/SI
6etailed Cost Table
IfNG Nillioni
Totals lncludoag Continp  jes
Quantity                                            Totals Including Contingrncies                       WS$S  0001
Sl      92       93       94       95      96      Total    Unit Cost   SI   92   93   94   95   96  Total    91   92   93   94   95   96  total
S. IESINENT COSTS
8. UIPUENI
I. taboratoires                   -        -        -        -       -        -         -       $1021   404  303  308  329  350  389  2.083   242  182  184  197  210  233  1.24?
2. Autres                                                                                        $120    37   39   40   41   43 4'          244    22   23   24   2S   26  26    146
Sob-Total EQUIPIIENT                                                                                        441  342  348  370  393  433  2.327   264  205  208  221  23S  2X9  t.393
3. FOflATION
Etranger                           -f    1-2    -    -    -    -    -0102    S1-                                                                              -     -      -      - 61
iocale                                                                                                     -38        -44        -    -     at      -   23    - 256                   49
SAb-lotal fIOINATIOt                                                                                         02   38    -   44    -    -    183    61  23    -   26    -    -    ItO
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                         543  380  348  414  393  433  2511   323  22?  208  247  235  259  1.502
it. AECISRENT COSTS
A. ZINNIltlES
Financint I                       -       -        -        -        -       -         -         $IS      -    4    8   It    -            24      -    2    5    7    -    -        14
finMncfOt NINSE                   -       -        -        -        -       -         -         $32      -   10   17   20   24    -       71      -    6   10   :2   IS    -        43
St&-Total IUCJWITES                                                                                          -    3   2S   32   24    -         5      -    8   Is 9    ;5        -     5?
8. 1EDIC4tIII                        -        -       -        -        -        -         -       $210      -   74   76   79   82    4    395         -   44   46   41   49   SO    236
C. FCttCIIow 
; .Vhlcules                      -        9        9       9       14       14        55        $163      -87   90 93             ISO  I  574      - 52   S   56  f    93    344
2. Autres                         -       -        -        -        -       -         -          SO          tS   20   21   21   22    103        -   12   t2   12   13   13        63
Sub-lotal fNtIECti.                                                                                          -  ItK  110  114  171  177    678         -   64   66    t  t121"         406
lotal RECURRENt COSIS                                                                                            -   9=4  211  224  277  261 =. 167        -  116 1:2  :314  I"_   16 6-
Total                                                                                                           543  574  55S  638  670  694  3.67R   325  343  335  382  401  41S  2.201
April 23. I9I 1t.2?
i~~~~~~~~~~
tXt <
0



a E PUS .t I  4 t  E   E  "ADA GA SC AR
PIROAMUE SECIORIEL SMIlE
l[ale 16. PESTE
D tailed Cost lTabl
IfNG   IllI ion)
Totals Including Conlingencia
Quantily                                      totals Including Cintingwncies                       USS '0001
91   92  9S   94    25         98    htola    Ioit Cost   91   92   93    S4    95   96  lutat    91   92   93   94   9S   96  lotal
1. IMWSIMEKT COSTS
A. VENICLES
1. lisi-n                I    -    -      I                        2                28                31          -     S9    I      -    - 19    -    -         is
2. 4 A 4                 1    -    -       1     -         -       2         s25    47    -    -      52    -            96    26    -    -   3t    -    -       S9
Sub-Total VEHICIES                                                                     75    -    -      61    -           157    45    -    -   49    -    -       94
B. (QUIPIS(NI
. Iboratoires            I    -    -       I     -        -        2        $15    28    -    -       31    -    -      S9    17    -    -is    -    -           35
2. 3wauus                 I    -    -      I                       2         $13    24    -            27    -    -      Sl    IS    -    -   16                 31
Swb-Total EOJlPIIMI                                                                   52    -            SS    -    -    110    31    -    -   35    -    - 
C. 1o0016ll
Etrangr                                                            -         $12     -   21                  -          21      -   13                -           13
Local ,                                                                      $36     -   34           39    -    -      73      -   20    - 24    -    -         44
Swb-lotJ,     FOai lTIOl                                                                -   SS    -      39    -    -       94     -   33    -   24    -    -       56
total ImVESt(NEt Costs D21   SS    -    I"6                                                                        -    -    362    76   33    -  108    -    -    T17
:::  ss: :::  :::: :::  :::::: :: 5 :::  :: ::=: s::: ::::   = :: :::::
(I. MCEm1t    5 COSTS
A.1881ES--                                                            -        $64      -  15   17       18  19   21       91     -    9   10  11   1212           54
B. PrtOOlCS Ct4NUES- --                                              -       $1889      -  S5 $68    701  725  749  3.50S        -  392  406  419  434  441  2.099
C. IUCIICH.IV
V.hicoles                                                         -         $24     *    a    8       a    9    9      49      4    5    5          1           29
Autres                                                            -         161     -   54 83        99  122    -    333       -   32  35   S9 13    -    195
ttC                                      -      -                          $98    43   1210            8  22   22    117    26    7    t    S   131   s         10
Ssb-lotal F14CII0 .                                                                  St   74   76    116  152   31    499    30   44   46   69   91   19    291
Totol SECURSIlt COSTS                                                                      St  744  771    835  896  801  4,o09      30  445  461  S00  536  4C0  2.452
:5::::-: :::: ::s   :::   :::::: ::: :           ::  ::: ::±: ::=: ::=: :::::n
lot.l                                                                                      IT6  799  771  1.01  896  *01  4.460   1OC  476  461  601  536  4U0  2.66i
X::: :::: S::: :Sn::: ::::  5:: ::=:5:  ::::  :::: :5:3:: ::fl::: .::::n::::
. . . . . ... .. . . . . . . .......... . . . .-Z.                                                Z.= ..=..-    -..Z.  -=.
til 23. 19SI 10:27
l3b
X
Q0
0 C
54



R E P UL   I I Q UE  CE  M A D A G A S C A R
PROGRAMME SECTORIEL SAhTE
Table 17. SURVEILtANCE EPIDEMIOLDGIOUE
Detailed Cost Table
IfIG Millionl
lotals Including Contingencies
QuantitY                             Totals Including Contingencies                        IUS$ '0001
-----~-----------------------------  Unit  -----------------------------------  --------------------------------
g1   92   93   94   95   96  lotal  Cost  91   92   93   94   95   96  Total   91   9'   93   94   95  96  lotal
I. I1'VESTMEIII COSTS
A. EQUIPMENIII
I. Eachniq-                                  -                 -  $200      -  193   50   52   53   55    404              116   30   31   32  33   242
2.BUr'                           -     -     -           -      -    $9    -   12       -    -    6    -         l     -    7    -    -    4   -    II
Sub-Total EQUIPIIENI                                                            -  205   50   52   60   55    422             123   30   31   36  33   252
B. GENIE CIVIL                 -                                                           O -  -  - -  - S        ISO -SO           90  -  - -  90
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                             -  205  200   52   60   55    571          -123  120   31   36  33   342
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INDEIUIIES,VOTAGES                                                $210      -   29   53  182  122  104    488    -   17   31  109   73  62   292
8. fOMCIIOIIEREMT--                                                   S10i     -    4    4    4    4    4          2t          2    2    2    3   3        12
lotal RECURREM. COSTS                                                              -   33   57  186  126  108    509          -   20   34 111    75  65   305
lota)                                                                               -  238  256  237  186  163  1.01          -  142  153  142  III 98   647
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                  -- .== .._._z _=. _--           . =- _  _ _.. .: ...  z=  --=  .
April 23. 1991  10:27                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
-,
m m
0<
OC
Mi
i-



Ra    P U at I OU E  D    N   DAG   S CAR
PROCRAIE SECIORIEt SANTE
Table 18. ItfOAII.-E(UC.-CONSIUNIC.-IEC
Detailed Cost Table
IflG Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
Otintity                        Totals Including Contingencies                 IUSS '000l
--------------------------------    Unit  -----------
91   92   93   94   S5   96  Total  Cost  D1   92  93  94  95  96  Total  91   92  93  94  95  98  Total
1. INV;STNENT COSTS
A. EIIICiES
1. Liaison                -    7    -    -    -    -       7   $15    -  203   -   -   -   -   203    -  121   -   -   -   -   121
2. 4X4                    -                     -           7   $25        338   ----              338        202   ----              202
Swb-lotal VIMICtES                                                         -  541   -   -   -   -   541    -  324   -   -   -   -   324
8. ECUIPEINI                 -    -$115    -  193   -- 32-    225                                                116   -- 19-    135
Total INYEST*NEI  COSTS                                                          735   -   -  32   -   767    -440   -   -  19   -   459
IL.  ECURRII1 coStS
A. ININIIOES.OtXES                                                $31    - 13  13  14 15   16    70    -    8           8      9   9    42
L FONCTIOINEP-T-95    -   10  16  21  25  27    98                                                                6  10  12  Is  16    59
Total  ENVEREINT COSTS                                                        -   23  29  34  40  42   168    -   14  17  21  24  25   101
:::  ::::  :::  :: -  -: :::    -::   ::: :::::   :-::  ::: ::::
total                                                                          -  758  29  34  72  42   935    -  453  17  21  43  25   559
April 23. 1991  10l27
-4:
m O
Itb
08



T E PUB 5        t 2    DE N   M    Da N SAS CAR
PROGR E SECTORIEL SANTE
labl 21. SN1-Pf
Datailbd Cose tabli
If hli Hi   ion)
TotaIs Including Contingencies
Qantity                                               Totals Including Contingancis                                   1uS$ '0001
91   32   33        94       95   96   lotal    Utnit Cost   91    92           93      94      i5      96   Tolal    99   92    93          94      95    96  Total
sas... .ssas:sa .... ..... ... ..... ..... .. .  :s:s ........             .. ......sss:sassast ...                       .. .... ..                    ......   ,  -:tt:s -:-=s :sss s:sss- ::s.-..
1. IUVLSTENI co515
A. COSTCTdmS                      -    -        --                                      $2900   137    966  1. 399  1.653  1. 22    442  5.930   112  578    337    939    767  264  3.549
L  EUlIKlPNE4t
1.  -EC                       -    -                                                  $65       -      43      20      21      21      22     132      -   29       12      12      13   13      79
2. EC/FP IWIP.
at. _l                     -    - a--                                             $204       -      43      76     124    928       53    430       -   29      45       74      77   32    257
AIoplocmaent dt--                                                                 $123       -       -       -     52      89      133    265       -    -        -     31      49   19    159
Sub-lotal ECXJ/fP E4IP.                                                                         -      43      76     975    209    196    695         -   29       45     905    125 1I9    4:6
Sb-lotal EUItPENIEtI                                                                                -     97      96      199    231    208    327         -   S8      57?     17     :38  124    495
C. 116. ASSISt.
I. om loet.--   -   -                                -   -   -              -                   -   99    -    -    -    -   11   -  6    -    -    -  -    S
2. b     rcha qort.            -    I                  9    9    I          5         Sh/A      -      21      22      23      24      25    917       -   93       13      14      IS   9S       70
3. Conultants                  -    2      2           -    -    -          4         4h/a             43      45                      U-                   26      27       -       -    -      52
Sub-lotal tEtl. ASSIST.                                                                             -     75        7     23      24       25    215       -   45      40       14     IS   tS    129
IL ftwl lfltt
1. f' w du ps.                -   27    S0           SON S 0 S            227         8.29      -      91      21      23      24      28     905      -    6       13      14      is   IS       63
2. fCycla                     -    - 200              -    -    -        200         S 14                     5?       -        -             57      -    -       34       -       -    -       34                              1
3  for     nt.                 -    -      4           -    -    -           4         $10                     73          7-            -      3                   43       -             -      43                               t
Sob-Total f09t9U                                                                                    -       t 1 5S1        23      24      26    235       -    6      9O       14      IS   1S    141
legal IISTIEIIT tOSTZ                                                                                17  1.946S  1.713 SSS  555   ,;, 52       09  7.207    112  SU   1.025  1.135        935  419  4. 313
IL . sw MT COSTS
A  IEIUItlS31A5                  -    -       -          ---                            $925       -     48      53       57      61      35    283       -   29      31      34      36   39      969
L VENICULES  PEtL                -    -                                                  $37       -      10      I6      17      t7      i8      77      -    6       90      t0      1*   it      46
C.    1U Pl-fS                   -    -       --                               -        S37              35       67     141    204    241    6fttl           29      40      34      122  144    412
latal   EC3W   l  lTSTS                                                                                -      9.    136    214    282    324  1 048           -   56       at    125      I93  I94    627
::33 ...... ..:::: 33 ....   3333. ,--    .  ::-.:: :3: :  3:::  ss:   ..:.-                    : .s:
Total                                                                                                 187  19242  1,849  2. 110  1.843  1.024  8.255    j12  743  1. 106  1.263  1. 103  613  4.940
:3:: :3:::: :33:33 3::::: 3::::: s:ss:: :ss:ss :::s t:3: 3:3:3 s:3:::s 333333 3:33 333333
_ ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._._._ __. ... .....  ......... .... .....                                                 -        T.  =.. .... z    .... . -. _s   --.
April 23. 1913 It.27
0%0
MC
a
t.
0'



RE           USt I e   t E  DE  N A 0 ACG A S  A  R
PGROCANE SECTORIEE SANIE
labl 22 PEV-VACCIIIATIOIS
DOtailed Cost labia
IFMG Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
4mantity                                          Totals Including  eontiingncios                        loSS  0001
~~~~~~~~~. .~. . . ... ............... ........ _...... . .. ..  . .   zz:
91   32   13   94        15         96        total      Unit Cost  91   92   93   94   95   95  total   91   92   93   94   95   96  totll
i KCIINEut COSIS
IL IhIIUItIES.VOTAUS
I   i                                                                              S -    -    -    -  -  -  -    5125/an     241  263  284  304  324  1.416  144  157  170  182  194    847
lab-total IlEUNIIES.oItAGiS                                                                          -  241  263  284  304  324  1. 416    -  144  157  170  182  194    147
S. VICtIaS                                                                                   750     -  264  273  282  291  301  1,411    -15   163  169  1T4  ISO                144
Total uECuuN: COSS t                                                                                       505  535  565  S95  626  2,826    -  302  320  338  356  374  1.69i
222. 2222 2  22 22 2              2       222 2222 222  2222 22 22..  :      =::
total                                                                                                    -  50S  535  565  595  626  2.826    -  302  320  338  356  374  1.691
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    . .. _._. .____. .z...m.  z... .   .... ..... ...  -z .... 
Api l ?3. InX V*: 27
to
lb
-J
I
mee
194
I-
0



R E P U B t I Q U E DE t A D A C A S C A R
PROGRA4itE SECTORIEt SANtE
lablo 23. SYSINENS FONDE SUR SSP
Detailed Cost lfabe
IFtG Million)
lotals Inc l.dtrg Contingenc-ies
QOuntity                                                   Totals Including Contingenciss                                 (US5 '000)
91      92       93       94        95        96      Total    Unit Cost  9t    92        93      94     95      96   lotal    91    92        93      94     95      96   Total
:2:2*   ss:2 2::s   :e=:  :::: :::::::: :::::::t                  ::::::::   :::. ::::  ::::::  :::::: :::::: :2:2:::               :   :,:  :::::            :
1. INVYES1tNT CoStS
A. GENIE CIVIL
firAI                                                         - I$520                                            209    229    245    260    274   1.217    -    125    137    146    ISS    164    728
firMrkniNNE                       -        -                          -$450                                      l 8et    194    207    220    .32   1,034            t loo    116    124    131    139    619
Sub-Total GENIE CIVIL                                                                                               390    424    452    479    507   2.251              233    254    270    287    303  1.34t
I. table *x                       -       -        -        -         -         -         -       $147    -    284             -      -           -     2t4    -    170         -       -      -       -     t70
2. Iabls daccoa                   -        -        -        -        -         -         -        $263    -    SOB        -       -       -      -      508    -    304        -       -       -      -    304
3. Isteuts accoch.                -        -       -        -         -         -         -        $250    -      97    100    103    107    tlO    57    -           58      60     62      64      66    310
4. Autr, equip.SSFP               -        -       -        -         -         -         -         750     -    290    300    310    321    331   1.552    -    174    179    186    192    198    929
5. Eq. rcours-refor                                         _                                      $490    -    191    S98    205    212    219   ' 024               itS    tl8    122    127    131    6t3
Su-Total EQUIPIIENT                                                                                            -  1.370    598    618    639    661   3.885    -    t20    358    370    382    395  2.325
Total INVESTRENT EUSTS                                                                                                1.s761  1.021  1.070  1.1)   1.167   6.137    -  1.054    611    640    669    695  3.673
Il.  .CO.ET CST..
A. SSP
tdtcti. lRA)                     -        -       -             -         -              -     $2 224    -    699    763    844    923    968   4.197    -    41)    457    SO0    552    S79  2,512
Medics. tIEINKI                  -        -       -        -         -         -         -     $2 224    -    699    763    844    923    968   4. 197    -    419    457    505    552    579  2 512
Vhic fonct.                               -   -        -        -         -              -        S7.S            3       3       3      3       3       16            2       2       2      2       2       9          O
Sub-lotal SSF                                                                                                 -  1,402  1.529  1.690  1.t49  1,940   8.409    *    839    915  1.011  1,106  1.161  5.033                   1
B. ItN
Medics.                                            -        -             -                       $221    -      54      73     8s      97    ItO       419    -      33      43     Sl      se      66    251
Amtres  rals                     -        -       -        -                   -         -         $66           12      16     33      43      35      139            7      10     20      26      21      83
Sub-Total IHN                                                                                                 -      66     89    It8    140    146        558    -      40      53      70      84     87    334
Total tECUtfT COSTS                                                                                                   1.468  1.618  1.808  1.989  2.ets S.967    -    876    968  1.082  1. 190  1.248  S.3t6
Total                                                                                                              -  3,228  2.639  2,877  3. 107  3,:253  IS. 10t    -  1, S32  1, 579  1.722  1, 859  1. 947  9.039
April 23. 1991 10:27
fDI-
tQ:



79                                               Annex  V
Page 15 of 16
*  ,.        tnt, 'C    tnt--c.-         e.t,ooc-. fit tnt              , .-n Nt
.q*.         fi  It'1                               *0,,       --  10,0W,
Owe.    etet,  di,       t  tWo ,.a,W,            t,c.wSc.ttc,n
-          a                   t  ,                         I:
-  ,  tt          WI-*        I*O         ,,tt,ttwtfi*t            OCtt,tfl'Ot't,"
-   *c.         tn  ID              ID          -      -fit                'r S.
fi  Ifi   ('4   't,          --       Cdt 0'        -
*  I          fiOItCt    Ottolced    fi00.ttOtWtIt              fifiQtt*II
* .t         di  tO          t  -            -    fit  .,    -N   Ctc.IteIt
61011               ,           .                   ,  ttt             NIfitloll
S  I  tt       -  tfl,t-ttmtt
-t  ,t          0,-to      itt..         C.. t t-w*t-tOt          fito0t09tet*I't
Cttntt          *   Itn         t        -      .-,to,c.It        *0  Ott *tt-It
00.'                                                    : -*
C.t-Ifi     , tdil      t t toO  tttntt*t        q,"'IOtntCtttI
-        (.t     N           fitn    Watt        fiN  tolfitit-It
-toll               I            t                   I  ttl            .nIto..-
'I:                                                  ::::                    (4:
t
S.Qttt          C.  tC4         I                   t  tc.tt            W*ttnttOtI*
a           at
C             tlt           to  *to   t,  -.tc           etc.    tate,.          -      NIotlt
C           ..tt         OW         000    ID   tnt'.   00                 OtdiCC
C  -            Ott                    -to.    'I.  (.4
to-           Ott          00        to  0    to                            to  
ott          go            -          to                          fiL
=0              It         '            to        to                           to -
041$            - t         cnn                                                      u
1$  0         *-tt         -
I  --          04           to-                                                     (.4
idOID         C.1           (a                                                    to
£  - a -
on.-.  a      t  tt         NO         fir.-   ci   ce-I tOO                     flIDO
N"'.                            tnO                 0  0
-- --        t -"                                          0*                      to
.44(403- t
"a          :.s
0144 5l'.t  t  tt                                            a                 -  N
0'ttS -       t  t                                             N                    -
tto
-dO.t,
o *
o  fl         t  I          NC.         t t      t    -t t tOO                 ta-C
4         t  tt                                          Ina                    N
ID
a
ON        --I   t  ttttat                         to-C
2
ON         t t I    t   -t t tOt                  IN-C
ID                     N
'Ott
Na         t t t    N    tttltt                    tN-0
fit       NN'    I    tltttt                      INt
-                               U
&j u'                   -
a:                           I           -            Ilot-   'a
'I      -                               I        :2j;
- t      C  t(9    tMt to    hO              -      I.tttd
t:!                                                            i
'Al      -   t . *1                      'r       s:tat   W
5; w:d.d..jd
o   -            0



R E P U G L I 4 U E DE t1 A D A G A S C I R
PROGRAMIIE SECTORIEL SANTE
table 32. ETUDES El UNITE BE GESllOI DU PROJET
DetalHad Cost Table
(IfGC tII llion)
Totals Including Con ingencies
,,_____  ,,,_    ,,_,,,,,,__ a,_,ntity                                                        Totals Including Contingencies                            USS 90001
91        92         93        94         SS        96       Total    Unit Coat   91    92         93      94    95   96  Total    91   92   93   94   9S   95  Total
at:::: a: afl2S:t22 sat::::S 52S:sS :2: :22::: 2:22 ::::::  :::5553:  stata:a::  2535 3*::?: tat:::: stats: itt: at::  tat::::  tat: a::: ttt: a:::  :t: ta:: a::::::
1. INVESWINtM CLISTS
J  OPISAIfiS
Mat. at equip. hurest.                  -                                -   '                                   5140    132      77      so      83   85   85    526    57   46   48   49   St   53    315
Wehicules                               3          2         3                                          a -  -  a  S20   112      77    120        -    -    -    309    67   46   72    -    -    -    135
fomntion                                -          -         -           -         -          -         -        SilO     17      35      36      38   39   40    205    10   21   22   22   23   24    123
Stab-letsl oKInmmS                                                                                                          241     190    236    120  124  129  1,040   144  114  141   72   74   77    623
3. ASSIST. 1EC6.
Istecies                                S          £         S          £          6                   30         512   123    129    134    140  146               672    74   77          t4 67        -    402
twee  d etudes                          -                               -          -                    -        $350   S    132    136    141  146                641    52   79   82   84   87        -    384
SiA-tol  xSSISI. TllCIN                                                                                                   210    260    270    281  291    -  1.313   126  156  152  ISt  174    -    786
1 Catet *t rlm- -                                                                                                $300      -    179    230       97    -    -    5SS        -  107: 165 S          -          332
2.?  litique phm                        -          -         -           --                             -          73      -      36      89     29    -    -    154         -   21   54   17    -    -        92
1 3Arcovrmt                             -          -         -           -         -          -         -         1 -  -  Il      21      69     25    -    -    116         -   13   41   IS      -            69
4.  nfeorce_mt                          -                                                                           o-                     -    194S                194      -          -  116    -    -    116
5. 14nea  e oapita                      -          -         -           -         -          -         -         $70      -      54       -       -   61    -    114        -   32    -    -   35    -        58
l udits                                 -          -          -          -         -          -         -         $50    17       18 la           19   19    -       9:    1O   11   11   11   0         -     54
7.It           .                                                 I -  -  _  _                                     :ISO            Ss   1:40       72    -    -    280        -   41   84   43    -    -    167
5*-loTa) ElONS                                                                                                                17    375    596    437   80    - 1.505          10  224  357  261   48    -    900
Total IxESlINEIE   COSTS                                                                                                        465    825  I. 103    838  495  129  3.858   280  494  C80  SOt  297   77  2.309                 0
_I. I _UMN  L_ST
A. EOUIf.  21---.                         -                                                                    S21fEAR      -      41      42      43   4S   45    217        -   24   25   26   27   28    130
8. VEhIClE M1INI.                         -           -         -          -         -          -         -      $30/an       -     S8      50      62   64   66    310        -   35   36   37   38   40    186
C.  _O_CI.u._  NNt
frais do depla at                      -          -         -          -          -          -         -        S275    55       97    104      III  117  :24    808    33   S8   62   66   70   74    364
rsonns                                 -          _1 SIS/an                                                              14      31      33     35   37   40    I9S        9   :8   20   21   22   24         114
fourn.d bure                           -          -         -           -                    -         -       561120    38      41      44     47   50   53    273    23   25   26   25   30   32            164
toinsicatios- -                                                                                                66520    38       41      44     4?   50   53    273    23   25   26   28   30   32            164
Suh-Total fSNCTTINMEKIT                                                                                                     143    210    225    290  255  26K  1.345    87  :26  135  144  152  161    805
Total 8ELN88EUT COSTS                                                                                                           146    309    327    345  364  362  1,873    87  ItS  196  207  218  229  1,121
:tzs  -:==t      -- ::=:=:   3: :  -: =   a::  :,= : ==t:  a:t= :::: ==t= =ta: stt-::
tetal                                                                                                                            614  1.133  1,430  1.183  859  510  5. 731   358  678   S6  708  514  305  3.429
t ::              :  = :  t: 2: --               : ::: a::  -     .5           at :::::  -::;::
April 23. IN: 10:27
I-
01<
I-O
0'



- 81 -
&NNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM - SUPPORT PROJECT
LIST OF FACILIrIES EOR INTRODUCTION OF EP SERVICES IN 1992
A.    Circonscription M6dicale ANTANANARIVOVILLE
Centre M6dicQ
1.    Ambohidroa
2.    Tsaralanana, Centre SMI
DisRensaire
1.    Ambohimanarina
2.    Ambohipo
3.    Amboniloa
4.    Ampanasimalo
5.    Analamahitsy
6.    Andohalo
7.    Anosipatrana
S.    Antanimena
9.    Isotry central
10.   Isotry annexe
11.   Maharnasina
B.    Circonscri2tion Medicale~  ANTANNARIVOYAVAR.AD&NO
centre Mdi
1.    Ambohimangakely
2.    Anosy Avaratra
Disoensairx
1.    Alasora
C.    Circonscli2tion M6dicale IMERINA4OUEST
Centre Medical
1.    Ambohidratrimo
2.    Ambohitrimanjaka
3.    Andoharanofotsy
1.    Ivato, poste infirmier



- 82 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 4
MADAGASCAR HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Use of Consultants
A.    Studies to be entirely financed                       Source of
by IDA Credit                                SW     Procurement
1.  Cost and financing and cost recovery
mechanism in the Health Sector                140          Firm
2.  Project audits                                 50        Firm
Terms of reference for surveys of household expenditures for health
and for estimating the cost and financing of health services by public,
private and NGO operators are included in the project file. Terms of
reference for the cost recovery mechanisms will be drawn up once the
findings and recommendations of the first two studies have been reviewed.
B.    Other studies for which complementary financing by the IDA Credit is
envisaged
1.  Management and aid coordination               120          Firm
2.  Pharmaceutical policy                          65          Firm
3.  Strengthening provincial health services       35          Firm
4.  Hospital management system                     65          Firm
5.  Health manpower training                       60          Firm
Since the principal source of financing for these studies are from
other donors, terms of reference for these studies will be drawn up in
close consultation with the MoH and the donor(s) concerned during the
course of HSP implementation, and particulalry in the context of the annual
work program reviews. The scheduling of these studies call for their
completion before the end of 1993 in order that they might serve as inputs
into the mid-term review and the policy adju.;tment process it will lead to.
Funding to support about 30 person-months of international expertise drawn
from firms has been budgeted.
C.    Other short-term technical assistance
1.    Family Planning Programs
. Training of trainers                           15         Firm
. Operational research                           20         Indiv.
. IEC expert                                     20         Indiv.
. Service delivery                               20         Indiv.
. Evaluation study                               25         Indiv.



- 83 -                               Annex VII
Page 2 of 4
2.    Health District Management
. Organisation of MD training                     40          Indiv.
. Facilitator for MD training programs            80          Indiv.
. Experts to develop pilot programs              1S0          Indiv.
. Evaluation studies                              60          Xndiv.
Terms of reference for short term support missions will be
drawn up and agreed upon in the course of project supervision to respond to
needs arising out of implementation performance. A first review of the
needs for 1992 will be carried out during the project launch mission
scheduled in July 1991 and is expeceted to be finalized during the review
of the 1992 annual work program (a condition of credit effectiveness).
D.    Support to Projects Monitoring Unit for IDA Credit administration
US$ 750,000 to fund additional personnel on fixed term contracts and
studies, including computerized accounting, project management systems
needed for the administration of the IDA credit has been provided for.
Needs and uses will be examined during the course of project supervision.
A first review of the needs for 1992 will be carried out during the project
launch mission scheduled in July 1991 and is expeceted to be finalized
during the review of the 1992 annual work program (a condition of credit
effectiveness).



- 84 -                        Annex ViI
Page 3 of 4
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
Durations   5 years (renewable every year)
This person must have at leart 3 years of work experience as a
procurement specialist, preferably on a donor-financed project. He/she
will have a 4-year university degree with a major in engineering or
equivalont technical degree; familiarity with computers would be a
strong advantage. He/she will have a thorough knowledge of contract
practices in Madagascar.
Functions of tho Procurement Sgecialist:
a)    under the supervision of the Project Director and the
Projects Monitoring Unit, he/she will be responsible for the preparation
and follow-up of all bidding documents including civil works required
for the project;
b)    he/she will have to become familiar with the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement and Sample Bidding Documents;
C)    he/she will have to become familiar with the World Bank
Disbursement Procedures;
d)    for the purchase of drugs, vehicles and other large pieces
of equipment, he/she will have to prepare procurement timetables so as
to avoid shortages in contraceptives throughout the duration of the
project;
e)    he/she will work in close collaboration with the accountant
in order to ensure that ftnds are available in a timely fashion for the
purchase of local supplies and equipment;
f)    during the preparation of the yearly budget, he/she will
have to propose a timetable for the procurement of goods and services
for the following year;



-85-                           Annex VII
Page 4 of 4
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ACCOUNTANT
Duration:   5 year. (renewable every year)
Profile:
This person must have at least 3 years of work experience as an
accountant, preferably having worked on a donor-financed project.
He/she will have a 4-year university degree with a rijor in accounting;
familiarity with computers would be a strong advant go. He/she will
have to become familiar with IDA accounting and disbursement procedures,
hence, proficiency in English would be preferable.
Functions of the Accountant:
a) under the supervision of the Project Director of the Projects
Monitoring Unit, he/she will be responsible for maintaining all
accounting records and closely monitoring expenditures pertinent to the
project;
b) in collaboration with the Project Director, he/she will provide
input on IDA requirements for the automation of the accounting system;
c) he/she will produce quarterly financial statements on the
financial status of each project component (and will maintain all
background materials documented under SOE) and a budget for planned
expenditures for the following 3-month period to be submitted to IDA;
d) in collaboration with the Project Director, the Procurement
Specialist and the Projects Monitoring Unit, he/she will liaise for
budgeting and accounting purposes for purchases of drugs, vehicles and
other equipment and supplies; and
e) in collaboration with the Project Director, he/she will assist
in the elaboration of a yearly budget based on work program to be
submitted to IDA.



IDA CONTRIBUTION TO THE M0Ii PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN 1991 - 1S95
PROGRAH                                     1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Integrated Training
- Overseas Training of central level personnel                           x       x
- Training of trainers
(Primary health care package of activities including an
overview of family planning and tranamLssible diseases -
4 weeks)
* 78 MDo (6 Deputy Prosanti, 36 medical inspectors, 36 deputy                 x
medical inspectors)
Training of field personnel
* 287 HMD  (from different levels of the health care system)                  x       x      X      X
* 2065 paramedical staff (from basic health facilities)                       x       x             x
Specific Training
- Family planning training:
Basic training and refresher courses for health personnel
already trained under the UNFPA project and for those working
in health facilities where family planning will be Introduced.
- Basic Training: 3 weeks
600 medical and paramedical personnel                                  x      x       x      x
- Refresher courses: 2 weeks
400 medical (70) and paramedical personnel (330)                              x
Transmisslbie Diseases Training
- Overseas/Ln country training of specialists (short-term
training)
10 (specialists In malaria (6), tuberculosis (1),                      x              x
entomology (2), epidemiology (1);
- Training of village health committees fmalaria (7370))                 x
OQe 
- Training of Fokontamy (access to malaria treatment (3350))             x      x       x      x      x         mm
,,0 ,O



IDA CONTRIBUTION TO THE MOH PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN 1991 - 1995
PROGRAM                                   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
- Refresher courses (malaria) for community health agents: 16,080      x
* Tuberculols,
* Leprosie
* Plague
.
l-)   indicates refresher courses for oame category of personnel during the last 2 years of the
project.
(~) will be mainly sponsored by FRANCE.
(-)  will be sponsored by Private/NGOs.
;
x
o 1-
'Q -
N m



-88 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
USSMILLION
IDA FY/QUARTER END             DISBURSEMENT DURING        ACCUMULATED         X
QUARTERS             DISBURSEMENTS
FY92
December 31, 1991               1.5                     1.5            5
March 31, 1992                  0.9                     2.4            8
June 30, 1992                   1.5                     3.9           13
FY93
September 30, 1992              1.8                     5.7           18
December 31, 1992               2.5                     8.2           26
March 31, 1993                  i.0                     9.2           30
June 30, 1993                   0.5                     9.7           31
FY94
September 30, 1993              1.0                    10.7           35
December 31, 1993               2.0                    12.7           41
March 31, 1994                  2.0                    14.7           47
June 30, 1994                   1.0                    15.7           51
FY95
September 30, 1994              0.5                    16.2           52
December 31, 1994               1.0                    17.2           55
March 31, 1995                  2.0                    19.2           62
June 30, 1995                   2.3                    21.5           69
FY96
September 30, 1995              1.0                    22.5           73
December 31, 1995               2.5                    25.0           80
March 31, 1996                  1.5                    26.5           85
June 30, 1996                   0.5                    27.0           87
FY97
September 30, 1996              0.5                    27.5           89
December 31, 1996               2.0                    29.5           95
March 31, 1997                  1.0                    30.5           98
June 30, 1997                   0.5                    31.0          100



- 89 -                                 Annex X
Page 1 of 4
SAFE USE OF PESTICIDES
How to Avoid Health Risks and Protect the Environment
General Principles
All pesticides are a risk factor for human beings ar,d animals, but
there is a difference between the intrinsic toxicity of the product and the
danger they reH.resent.   Highly toxic preparations are not used for vector
control due to the difficulty in reducing human exposure to them.
One way of measuring the potential toxicity of a pesticide,
especially in relation to humans and other mammals, is to estimate the quantity
of toxic component per kilogram of body weight needed, either orally or
dermaly, to kill 50% of experimental animals, generally rats and occasionally
rabbits. This is called the average lethal dose or LD 50. Toxicity may vary
by way of ingestion or contamination, or by formulation of the product (liquid
or solid). Based on these considerations, WHO has established tables for the
toxicity and degree of danger of pesticides, under the qualification of highly
hazardous  (HH), moderately hazardous  (MH),  slightly hazardous  (SH),  and
unlikely hazardous (UH).
Based on such characteristics of toxicity, health programs classify
pesticides by risk groups, from I to IV, recommending not to use the groups I
and II, and to use when possible groups III (slightly hazardous) and IV
(unlikely hazardous).
Studies on toxicology indicate that products belonging to the same
group, like the organophosphorus compouds (OP), have a different degree of
toxicity. For example, Parathion, which is used in agriculture, is the more
toxic with an LD 50 for rats of 3mg/kg of body weight (oral dose); while
Temephos (Abate R) has an LD 50 for rats of 2.600 mg/kg (oral dose) and 4.000
mg/kg by dermal contamination.
Another OP is Malathion, having an LD 50 of 1.000 mg/kg of body
weight (oral dose) in rats, and over 4.000 by dermal contamination. However,
inadequate storage in tropical areas may allow changes in the chemical
composition of the product, transforming it into Isomalathion, which is highly
toxic. An accident of this kind occurred in Pakistan in 1976, and 2500 workers
(sprayers) of the malaria control project became sick of which five died.
Except for pirethroids and regulators of insect growth in the larval
phase, few insecticides have been incorporated in the Madagascar control
program.
Besides toxicity, another feature to be considered on chemicals is
the way it is used, i.e. type of formulation; concentration; method of
utilization; accidental food exposure; absence of labels; inadequate labeling
either because of its -ntent or the language used; contamination of the barrel
or boxes; inadequate _-orage; illiteracy; lack of proper training; or lack of
information of the beneficiaries. Very frequently, the population is aware of
the danger related to the ingestion of an insecticide (orally) but not of the
danger of its absorbtion through the skin, particularly in hot climates.



- 90 -                                 Annex X
Page 2 of 4
Control of endemic diseases
The Ministry of Health is responsible for the control of malaria;
schistosomiasis; pest control; goiter control and finally coordination of the
program to control zoonoses in urban areas, particularly plague.
For the control of major endemic diseases, MOH applies, among other
measures,  organochlorine  coumpouds,  organophosphorus  compounds,  pyrath.urm
compouds, moluscides and raticides.
The most common pesticides used by MOH are:
Product         Formulation                    Program
1.   DDT             Powder/humidifiable 75X         Malaria
2.   DDT             Technical degree 98-100%        Malaria
3.   Deltametrine   Emuls. conc. 2.5%                Chagas Disease
4.   Deltametrine   Powder/hum. 5.0                 Chagas Disease
Some insecticides like BHC, HCH (Lindane) are seldom used now, and
others have been used in a lesser scale, like the Carbamates (Carbion, Sevin,
Carvin, Norvin) as pulicides for pest control.
Pesticides like chloropyrifos, malathion, diazinon, fenitrothion and
carbamates like carbaryl or propoxur inhibit the cholinesterase; thus it is
essential to control cholinesterase levels in the workers using pesticides.
It is also advisable that new workers hired for the application of pesticides
(organophosphorus, carbamates) be tested for cholinesterase before starting
their work in public health, as frequently as they are originally from
agricultural areas where interventions with organophosphorus pesticides like
parathion may have affected their blood levels of cholinesterase. It is also
recommended that MOH spraymen be provided with sufficient water and soap to
wash themselves at frequent intervals. Facilities must be available to enable
them to take a bath or shower at the end of a day's work.
Main Identified Problems
1.   Storage facilities
Imported  products  arrive  at  preselected  ports   (Toamasina,
Antsinarrana) and are transported over land to Antananarivo, the capital, for
storage.   From there,  they are dispatched to treatment sites.   Storage
facilities vary from district to district, but in general they meet minimal
conditions for storage.  Such conditions should include: (i) stands or wood
platforms to avoid humidity and allow air circulation; (ii) free space to allow
air circulation over the boxes or barrels; and (iii) some security elements or
padlocks to avoid free access to the public.
2.   Handling at Storage Level
Instructions exist and are adequate if applied with discipline.
Whenever boxes are damaged, but the pesticide is in good condition, it is
repacked. If there is a contamination or mixture with the soil, the product
is collected and burried in areas where it could not harm the population or
sources of water.



Annex X
- 91-
Page 3 of 4
3.   Acquisition and Supply
Apparently the system of acquisition and supply of pesticides does
not follow a standard pattern in relation to the packing and labeling of the
product. To illustrate this point:
DDT in powder humidifiable at 75Z arrived from Indonesia with labels
written in English in the boxes and in the plastic bags containing individual
packages (670gr) prepared in the factory.
DDT bought from Italy had Portuguese labels in the boxes but there
were no individual packages prepared at factory level.
DDT from Jamaica had English labels in the boxes but the individual
packages in plastic bags had no labels at all.
The sixth edition of the WHO book on specifications for pesticides
used in public health, 1985, details the content of each label, depending on
the product or its formulation. It is recommended that such label be in the
language of the country where the product is going to be used.
4.   Guidelines and Manuals
Some titles include: "Risk prevention in the use of pesticides"
(1983); 'Pesticides: risk prevention in its use - Training Manual", second
edition (1986); "Prevention, diagnosis ar.d treatment of intoxications by
pesticides", R. Plestina (Zareb, Yugoslavia), (1986); and "Classification of
pesticides according to its dangerousness", WHO (1986).
5.   Training Courses
For past DDT spraying campaigns, MOH has mobilized WHO experts as
program manager and superintendants, including Malagasy experts who
participated in the successful malaria control/eradiction programs of the
1960's.   MOH has also organized local courses for pesticides handling and
prevention, diagnosis and treatment of intoxication for all supervisory staff
and sprayers which are considered of high priority by MOH officials.
Options for Solving Identified Problems
1.   Update training manuals.
2.   During the process of procurement of material,  adopt the technical
specifications of WHO on formulation and packing of pesticides, and on
labeling of boxes and individual packaging in the language of the
country. Each label should include warnings concerning the toxicity of
each product.
3.   Include in MOH's rules and regulations the obligations at each level to
comply with the norms of health risk prevention for the workers and
environmental pollution.



Annex X
Page 4 of 4
4.   Give one Lovibond kit to each dist..ict for cholinesterase control of
workers, and of members of the community where activities are taking
place that would have accidentally been exposed to pesticides used by the
program.
5.   Each district should have an emergency kit for cases of intoxication,
and clear directions on what to do and criteria for referral t-o higher
levels of care if needed.
6.   Maintain  contacts  with  other  entities  dealing  with  health  and
environment; i.e.:
- State laboratories for pharmaceutical products and toxicology
- Health faculty of the universities of Antananarivo and Mahajanga
- Institut Pasteur de Madagascar
- The Research Center for the Environment.
7.   Keep  the  community  informed  on  the  precautions  in  the  use  of
pesticides, through MOH's normal channels for health education and social
participation.



- 93 -
Annex XI
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    IDA's Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement a;tions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for this project to require six staff-weeks during the
first project year, four staff-weeks per year during the two following
project years, and three staff-weeks per yer thereafter) and excludes
inputs to be provided for the annual review of the public expenditure
program for health (six staff-weeks annually).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted at the end of each
quarter no later than one month later and at the end of each year
before March 31 the following year by CSP (Cellule de Suivi des
Projets - Proje.:ts Monitoring Unit) which will coordinate report
preparation by the various entities involved in project execution.
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility
of the CSP Unit head who reports directly to the Project Director.
Review meetings held under the auspices of the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) with the participation of the various agencies
involved In project execution will be held normally in mid-April
and mid-October of each year.
(c) The CSP will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
IDA supervision missions, and for providing information required
by missions. Missions will normally travel in the field and be
accompanied by the head of CSP.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings
will normally be chaired by the Project Director and include
representatives of the agencies involved in the project.
(e) The PSC will meet at least quarterly and the minutes of its
meetings will be copied to IDA.



- 94 -
ANNX XI
Pago 2 of 2
MADAGASCAR: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM - SUPPORT PROJECT
IDA Supervision Inputs Into Koy Activities 1/
Approx                          Activity                        Expected *kill            Staff input
Dates                                                           Require-nts                 (S/W)
7/91            Supervision Mission/Project Launch        Public health MCH/FP                   6.0
Assiot in preparation of training         Fin. anal./economics
program.  Will Include field visit.       Training
Procuroent
9/91             Supervision Mission                        Public health MCH/FP                  6.6
Review start-up and imrmertntation        Public hoelth Com. Die
of organizational arrannimnts,            Systems analysis
selection of coioultants.                 Fin. anal./-conomico
Review Annual Work Program/budget
2-4/92           Supervieson Mission                        Public hoalth MCH/FP                  8.6
Review start-up and project               Training
lmplementation                            Procurement
Will include ft-ld visit.
6-7/92           Supervision Mission                        Public health Com. DI*                a.,
Review start-up and project               Systoem  nalysis
Implementation                            Fin  nal ./economice
Will Include field visit.
9/92             Supervision Mission                        Public health MCH/FP                  6.o
Review start-up and project               Training/IEC
Implementation                            Hoalth Statistics
Review Annual Work Program/budget         Fin. anal/economics
Will Include field visit.                 Procurement
Years 98, 94      Same pattern as for 92 (8 missions         Public health MCH/FP             4 x 12.0
96 and 96        per year, Including a mission to           Public health Com. Di*
review AWP In Soptomber)                  Systems analysis
Fin. anal./economics
Training/IEC
Procureent
In addition:
2-4/94           Mid-term evaluation of HSP                 NGO/private sector                    6.6
interfacoo
Pharmaeoutical Policy
2-4/98           Preparation PCR                            Public health MCH/FP                  6.6
Systems analysi
Fin. annl./conomics
1/ IDA Supervision will be focussed on tho Malaria Control, Communicable Disease
Monitoring, Fam!ly Planning and Institutional Strengthening components of the HSP.
Other aspects would be reviewed In the context of tho annual review of the Pulic
Expenditure Program, health sector.
Part of technical expertise needd to superviso HSP would be sought through
mobilization of UNDP funds for technical assistaneo and from othera donors financing
the HSP.



9l5 -                              Annex XII
Page 1 of 1
MADAMASCAR - HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FOR HEALTH 1991-93 1/
(FMG billion)
1990        1991         1992         1993
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM               Est.        Proj.        Proj.        Proj.
1. Foreign Aid                           30.8         33.8         36.5         37.5
Loans                                4.8          7.1          9.6         10.5
Grants 2/                           19.8         20.4         20.7        20.7
Non-project T/A                      6.3          6.3          6.3          6.3
2. Extra-budgetary                        1.9          1.5          0.4          0.7
Counterpart funds                    1.9          1.5          0.4          0.7
Benficiaries                         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
3. National Budget                       34.1         39.3         49.8         55.5
Capital (FNDE-I)                     4.0          5.4          6.0          6.5
Recurrent                           30.1         33.9         43.8         49.0
Personnel                         20.0         23.3        26.8         30.0
Drugs, supplies                    8.8          9.6         14.8        16.5
Maintenance                        0.5          0.6          1.3          1.5
Other                              0.7          0.5          0.9         1.0
TOTAL                   66.8         74.5         86.7         93.7
Exchange rate US$1 = FMG 1500 3/         44.5         49.7         57.8         62.5
KEY EXPENDITURE RATIOS
Foreign aid/total                       46Z          45Z          422          40%
Govt budget/total                       51Z          53Z          57Z          59%
Govt recurrent/total                    45Z          46Z          51Z          52%
Personnel/total                         30Z          31Z          31Z          32%
Personnel/recurrent                     67Z          69Z          61Z          61Z
1/ Figures shown as of September 1990, based on exchange rates then prevailing
This is a three year rolling program that will be reviewed annually by IDA
2/ Amounts exclude reprogramming of EDF funds, including those in support of the HSP
3/ Exchange rate used for PER. In January 1991, the FMG was devalued to FMG 1671
per dollar



-96 -                                 Annex XIII
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
HEALTH SECTOk IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
I.    Programme Sectoriel de Sante 1991-95, Ministere de la Sante, Madagascar.
2.     Prograamme Sectoriel de Sante 1991, Ministbre de la Sante, Madagascar.
3.     COSTAB Health Sector Program
4.    COSTAB Health Sector Improvement Project
5.     Mission reporl of Mr. Gilles Desrochers, proposing terms of reference for studies of
household SLII vey ot health expenditures and study of cost and financing of health
selrvices.



IBRD 20035R
12 -'                                                                                                                                                          12-
'Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                      4,
P-red -ordi 
.All-.-oh., toadsF 
h/-l", ,co"'64,/ e tout. sm$.,o                                           NOSY EE .            slA.b Icb.
NIoV#Jpe-onenr -d4  ' ,+                                                                                      _\bir.ln
ARp.tsrt                                                                                       At I .' IRANANA
mNolionol copltal
cat~puta/r r'fwo                                                    Anllv4^                    8oonso   
Ch.f1  d/ve' fortanr                                              ,  Antso, KyJ                           Ad/  
,,       r, rt.ny b ...dwis,                                           .'I       C                                       Anhalaho
Z  M  .s ^,@,J MJ~~~~Mhajong0*+ .4, m  { 
.J+Stsolompy   2         >>st/  g  \ ,O    '   no ,II... So.n.sr.no lvonqw t  {Osy
/J;                   ~~~~~~~~M.evotonan Ir;            ooso    {T OA M A S I N A    -' 6PtAR
@  V  0   f  b     g       K 9 >   \   xk            >          ' SnnAoo-rnl "oo At,,...*-
M.i.iwnro             q     /     )    {                     ^ ~ '               f'mbotondroW z
>           /t              Ani0206+4t ~~~~~~~~~Anit-or.beo                    c ;@ a   moorsinr
\  _  Anesol\ovo |   '   /-     I !   A   N A   A R I VCk 4i;12
.              '.9sd7             ' \ ~~~~~~~~~~Soot.nand.anp   bAn rmiyi               4Gomndry
Mo,nd                                                                                                                     20o--o0_2F    s   P  btlnt  oAoirotl
\  A    Antsiro+/ F.t                  Mhnr
,         ^           \   \;,          ~~~~~~~~~~~~A.botof.nondrahonoa  6mos iro t osoro
1    IAF S                                       A,I6oh-Oheso/
!~~~~~r                                                                                             niMno+   / f   l'> < Mfn l ry
, r Fionobo~~~~~~~ntsoy e,
MoroMbe    -ond-    M IIo,§t~°eOaa~-                               Ablyo g I/
oAnkofoobo l     I~hosy                         Snkr
f        ,      i         tS           fvivoh be      iq(\fohpono     Sl KLOMtETERS o   50      100    ISO    200
\ (  rSokorohoS  t  )\\    e \\f°<,°t°°'  77Fo of/onoono           ~~~~MILES 0        SO           100
Tol irJ                                         4  -<;       
sUrroa tsstrvr/tsts   .   \   ]      bS                 A                                 t    -    ss?    X   £'  -- /~~~~~21-  --
dtf J USW OI rhW V* {f t BOf   \ ^        [      </                / / eto                                         +   /    t ' 
Vthot rdotoki  tst                                                           L mxnhO* t9 mir                      ZAMB~_ABE        /        Atnoro
rnth mvrnI evont ft<u                                         s    yS d  O?                                       r                    e"s6MADAGASC-AR
NwnawzFdwzce *arvcr hen \_ -ae 5 _ ; hgno~~~~lognro                                                                       f    
_                        ~~~~                                                      ~          ~~~~~4.  _  4p  ..J
JUNE1I990



