Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20304-MAG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-225 10)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ SDRs 22.9 MILLION (US$ 31.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A HEALTH SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 21, 2000
Human Development 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
FMG 1.00 = US$ .00014
US$ 1.00 = FMG 7150.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS    Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome               HSP      Health Sector Program
CIR      Country Implementation Review                    ICB      International Competitive Bidding
CPA      Central Purchasing Agency                        IEC      Information, Education, and Communicatioi
CSP      Projects Monitoring Unit (Cellule de Suivi des Projets)   ILO  International Labor Organization
CSSP    Primary Health Care Center ( Centre de Soins de Sante   IUD  Intra Uterine Device
Primaires)
DDDS   Direction du Developpement des Districts Sanitaires  NCB    National Competitive Bidding
DDT      Dichloro-diethyl-trichlorotane (une pesticide)   MCH    Matenal and Child Health
DEPP    Studies, Planning and Programming Department      MINSAN Ministere de la Sante
(Direction des Etudes, de la Planification et de la
Programmation)
DGS      Director General of Health (Directeur Ge6nral de la  NGO  Non-Governmental Organization
Sante)
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey                    NPL      National Population Law
DIRDS   Direction Inter Regionale du developpement sanitaire    NPP  National Population Policy
DLMT   Communicable Disease Control Department (Direction   PHC    Primary Health Care
de Lutte contre les Maladies Transmissibles)
DMC    Curative Medicine Department (Direction de la      PSC      Project Steering Committee
Medecine Curative)
DMP    Preventive Medicine Department (Direction de la    ALAMA  Central Drug Procurement Agency
Medecine Preventive)
DPL      Pharmacy and Laboratories Department (Dirction de la   STD  Sexually Transmitted Disease
Pharmacie et des Laboratoires)
EEC      European Economic Community                      TB       Tuberculosis
EPI      Expanded Program on Immunization                 UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
FP       Family Planning                                  UNFPA  United Nations Fund for Population
Activities
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                           UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
GTZ      Gernan Cooperative Agency                        USAID   United States Agency for International
Development
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus                     WHO    World Health Organization
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:    Slaheddine Ben-Halima



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                      27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1520                                    IProject Name: Health Sector hnprovement Project
Team Leader: Slaheddine Ben-Halirna                      TL Unit: AFTQK
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Health Sector Improvement Project             L/C/TF Number: IDA-225 10
Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HB - Basic Health; HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/28/1987                             Effective: 09/12/91           04/30/92
Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                MTR: 06/30/94             10/03/95
Approval: 05/28/1991                              Closing: 06/30/97            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/GOVT.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hafez M. H. Ghanem                       Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Slaheddine Ben-Halima.                  Edmond de Gaiffier
ICR Primary Author:   Paul Geli (consultant) and Nellie
Sew Kwan Kan (Language
Program Assistant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Sati3factory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed to support the implementation of the Government's Health Sector Program (HSP)
over the period 1992-96 with the objectives of: (a) reducing mortality and morbidity; (b) moderating
fertility levels; and (c) improving the efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures for health, the
sector policy framework and institutional coordination mechanisms. By accelerating the integration of



family planning services into the basic activities of the public health system, the project was also expected
to contribute significantly to the implementation of the National Population Law adopted in 1991.
The objectives were ambitious but appropriate at the time, in view of the health status of the population and
the high rate of population growth, and in line with Government strategy for the sector and with the Bank's
country assistance strategy for Madagascar. The health status of the population in Madagascar was poor,
with indicators close to the averages for Sub-Saharan African countries. The reported leading causes of
mortality and morbidity were malaria, perinatal health problems, diarrheal diseases and intestinal parasites,
malnutrition, acute respiratory infections, tuberculosis (TB), and infectious diseases such as leprosy.
During the last two decades, the health status of the population seemed to have stagnated, and there was
some indication that diseases linked to poverty and unsanitary living conditions, notably TB, plague and
water-borne diseases, might have been on ithe rise. The Government strategy for the development of the
health sector was to focus on rehabilitating the public health system to enable it to deliver the basic services
needed to meet the health needs of the population, with an emphasis on treating the most common endemic
diseases and on improving the survival of infants, children and pregnant women. The HSP and the project
were complex and demanding for the MOI-I and were, therefore, risky.
The project's original objectives were clear, but the SAR and the legal documents did not include any
indicator of success, quantitative or otherwise. Therefore, if the project had not been restructured, an
assessment of the degree to which the original objectives have been achieved would have certainly been
difficult.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The revised project development objectives, as agreed with MOH during the mid-term review in 1995 and
as formally revised in June 1996, were to: (a) achieve significant decreases in morbidity and mortality rates
by helping the Borrower to strengthen priority disease control programs and epidemiological surveillance;
(b) increase availability and affordability of essential drugs; (c) improve the quality of district health
services and promote community-managed. cost recovery; and (d) strengthen the management and planning
capacity of MOH.
During the first three years of implementalion, the performance of the project was poor for a number of
reasons related to the political situation as well as the design and management of the project. The project
was rated as a problem project by the Bank in early 1994, and by the end of 1994, the Government started
to implement an agreed action plan to improve project performance. The mid-term review, carried out
jointly with MOH staff and donors in June and October 1995, led to proposals for partial restructuring of
the project in the light of the sector reforms initiated by the MOH (decentralizing the health system and
improving drug procurement and distribution) and support from other donors (for example, from USAID
for family planning). Following an intense, one-year consultation process between Government, other
donors, and the Bank, and using as a basis the Government health policy finalized in April 1996, the
project objectives and activities were redefined.
The project continued to have as an ultimate objective the reduction of mortality and morbidity rates.
However, it no longer aimed at moderating fertility levels since this objective was already adequately
pursued through other donors' financing. Instead, the project had a new objective of improving drug
availability and affordability by supporting the newly established central drug procurement agency. The
third objective of the original project, which was to improve the relevance and efficiency of public
expenditures for health, the sector policy framework and institutional capacity, was redefined in line with
the priority objectives of the new health pclicy. The focus of the project was now on: (i) strengthening
- 2 -



primary health care at the district level, while promoting community-managed cost recovery; and (ii)
developing an institutional capacity by focusing on priority management needs of the MOH, as defined in
the new health policy.
One could have argued that the project restructuring involved mainly changes in management, approach
and focus, rather than changes in the substance of the development objectives. Nevertheless, the revisions
of the project's objectives were reported to the executive directors and approved by them on a no-objection
basis, as part of a restructuring package which also included changes in the projects activities and closing
date. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in May 1996.
3.3 Original Components.
The project consisted of four components:
(1) delivery of comprehensive communicable disease programs to control malaria, tuberculosis, leprosis,
sexually transmitted diseases (including AIDS), and the plague, and the establishment of a communicable
disease monitoring system (cost: US$ 16.5 million, excluding contingencies and taxes);
(2) introduction/upgrading of family planning services as an integral component of maternal and child
health care offered in at least 500 of MOH's clinics (cost: US$ 4.0 million, excluding contingencies and
taxes);
(3) improved delivery of primary health care services, including reasonable access to essential drugs in all
MOH outpatient facilities (cost: US$ 9.0 million, excluding contingencies and taxes); and
(4) the first phase of a long-term institutional development program to: (i) progressively restructure and
strengthen the MOH's health delivery system to increase its efficiency and invite greater popular
community/participation; (ii) strengthen MOHIs policy formulation and programming, monitoring and
evaluation capacity; and (iii) broaden the financing base and improve the sustainability of public health
expenditures (cost: US$ 4.9 million, excluding contingencies and taxes).
3.4 Revised Components:
Based on the revised project objectives, the restructured project supported the following activities or
components:
Part A - Communicable disease control programs - US$ 18.6 million
Part B - Improvement of drug availability and affordability - US$ 2.0 million
Part C - Support to district health services and community-managed cost recovery - US$ 10.8 million
Part D - Institutional development - US$ 5.0 million
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In retrospect and with the wisdom of insight, the quality at entry seems to have been unsatisfactory,
essentially because of a somewhat deficient project design for such a complex operation.
On the positive side, as mentioned above, the project's objectives were consistent with the Bank CAS and
government priorities at the time. According to the SAR, project preparation was well advanced, and
irnplementation of the new activities could be started as soon as financing was available.
Nevertheless, the performance of the project was very poor during the first three years. The mid-term
review identified the main reasons for this poor performance, namely: (a) a lack of clear health policy and
sectoral strategies, which has hindered implementation of the sector program (which became largely
- 3 -



donor-driven); (b) too loose a definition of project objectives and a lack of well-defined targets with only
very few output indicators that could be monitored; (c) poor project management performance; and (d) lack
of donor coordination mechanisms, which was highly detrimental to project management and planning,
because project implementation was based on donor coordination mechanisms (IDA was considered as the
donor of last recourse, once MOH annual work programs and costs had been approved by all other
donors).
It is clear that the original project design hacd underestimated the risks associated with implementing such a
complex operation, especially those linked to poor institutional capability and donor coordination. The
design had paid insufficient attention to project implementation, organization and management issues,
including procurement and accounting. The General Director of Health (DGS) was to be the project
director, assisted by a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to be established with high level officials of the
MOH as members and, for day to day project administration, by the existing Projects Monitoring Unit
(CSP) of the MOH; no provision was made for the establishment of a project implementation or
management unit. The intention, a most commendable one, which is periodically advocated by many in the
Bank, must have been to ensure that all departments and services of MOH be fully involved in project
implementation, with appropriate strengthening, if needed.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
At the same time that the project objectives were revised, performance indicators covering project output
and outcome/impact were developed and began to be monitored. An effort was made to identify indicators
that the country/MOH could collect and monitor. A summary of those indicators is shown in Annex 1, and
more detailed information on those indicators is given in the borrower report (Annex 8). It should be noted
that, for some of the outcome/impact indicators such as the reduction in mortality and morbidity, the
achievements shown cannot be attributed so!lely to the IDA project and credit, but are also the results of
investments and actions undertaken and/or financed by Government and other donors. Some of the targets
were too optimistic and unrealistic. With those qualifications, the overall outcome of the project, compared
to the revised objectives can be considered rather satisfactory.
Another way to evaluate the success of the project is to rely on the judgement and opinion of the
beneficiaries themselves. According to a beneficiary asssessment carried out in late 1999, 80 percent of
the heads of the households surveyed were satisfied with the services offered by health centers. The
percentage is about the same in urban areas (77 percent) and in rural areas (81 percent), but varies among
the Provinces: 68 percent for Antsiranana and 87 percent for Toamasina. This perception is due to the
belief that family health has improved (for 80 percent of households), but also to the way health providers
managed their relations with patients (for 85 percent of households). Another factor was the competence
of the medical personnel (for 92 percent of households). Moreover, a majority of households believed that
drugs were available in sufficient quantities (ffrom 56 percent to 67 percent of households), and that the cost
of health care was "acceptable" (from 55 percent to 72 percent of households). Among the households
which were not satisfied, the main problems mentioned were the insufficient personnel in rural areas and
the inadequate supply of drugs in urban areas. Regarding the impact of the project, 75 to 94 percent of
households thought that the activities of the health centers have brought about an improvement in their
living condition. Practically all the heads of households believed that their health status has improved, and
a large majority also indicated an additional benefit as an increase in productivity and a reduction in
absenteeism. Those findings are encouraging and augur well for a desirable improvement in the rate of
utilization of health facilities, which remains low.
- 4 -



(a) Regarding the objective of achieving significant decreases in mortality and morbidity associated with
the main communicable diseases, the individual disease objectives have been partially achieved.
(b) Regarding the objective of increasing the availability and affordability of essential drugp the central
drug procurement agency (SALAMA) is operational, although some concerns remain about its role in the
cost recovery scheme. Essential generic (EG) drugs are now widely available throughout the public health
network.
(c) The objective of improving the quality of district health services and promoting community -
managed cost recovery has not been fully achieved. The support to the development of the district health
system was limited to the strengthening of the central and provincial levels, although some investments
were made to rehabilitate and equip a number of district facilities. A very significant achievement is the
establishment and now successful operation of a nationwide cost recovery system.
(d) The objective of strengthening the management and planning capacity of MOH was only partially
achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As mentioned above, the overall assessment is satisfactory. By project components, the assessments are as
follows:
- (a) Communicable disease control programs.
Although below the targets, the progress of the Malaria control program is the biggest plus of the whole
project. The wide availability of anti-malarial drugs has certainly contributed to the countrywide lowering
of malaria morbidity and mortality. Surveys of sentinel posts show a reduction of 19 percent in morbidity
and 35 percent in mortality in the highlands, which no longer experienced the severe epidemics of
1987/1988; on the other hand, progress in the lowlands has been much more limited. Tuberculosis has
successfully been brought under control despite problems encountered lately in the provision of TB drugs;
the compliance with treatment (cure rate) increased from 60 percent to 67 percent. In spite of major
improvements in the plague control, following the establishment of an exemplary organization, the strategy
clearly showed its limitation when it is confined within the Health Sector (the plague lethality rate
decreased from 21 percent to 19 percent, compared to the extremely ambitious and unrealistic target of 5
percent), and hence the necessity to deal also with hygiene and sanitation. Given the serious impact of
schistosomiasis in many parts of the country, the project provided unforeseen support to the fight against
this communicable disease, with promising positive results. Given the concomitant very low HIV
prevalence (0.07 percent at project mid-term), with the rather high incidence of STDs, particularly syphilis,
the strategy adequately focused on IEC and STDs treatment, as well as systematic testing for syphilis in
pregnant women, and blood transfusion security. The latest figure (November 1999) shows a still low IRV
prevalence rate of 0.14 percent.
- (b) Improvement of drug availability and affordability.
SALAMA, the central drug procurement agency, is one of the two best in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has
united all donors, who wanted to have it. Equipped with an appropriate stock of essential drugs, SALAMA
began to operate in 1998, and distributed drugs, with the previously allocated budget for drugs, to all health
infrastructures. This drug allocation, based on the previous Central Pharmacy budget line (which used
-5-



specialty drugs and/or expensive generic drugs), was used to purchase low cost generic drugs and,
therefore, generated a'relative excess of drugs compared to the actual drug use rate. The drug budget line
has continued to be used to purchase drugs directly (outside of SALAMA) for delivery to the health
facilities. Due to the overstocking, drug management capacity under normal conditions could not be
assessed. In conclusion, while SALAMA has operated as an efficient drug distribution agency, it has not
yet started to fully play its expected role, including direct drug sales to the health facilities which should
buy replacement drugs with the proceeds of their own sales within the cost-recovery system. For the
future, it is important that SALAMA remain a private non-profit drug procurement and distribution
agency.
- (c) Support to district health services and community-managed cost recovery.
The revised component included: (i) the establishment and operation of central and regional units of MOH
in charge of strengthening management and planning capabilities of health districts and promoting
community-managed cost recovery; (ii) implementation of annual development plans at the district level,
based on eligibility criteria (including rehabilitation and equipment and support to the health, training and
supervision activities); and (iii) supply of drugs to establish revolving funds for cost-recovery systems
managed by communities.
It seems that the implementation of this component suffered from differences of views between the MOH
and the Bank on the manner in which it should be executed, particularly the role and staffing of the central
(Service de Developpement des Districts - SDD) and provincial units (Cellules Regionales d'Appui aux
Districts - CERAD) for support to health districts. The support provided by the project was finally limited
to the strengthening of structures at central and provincial levels which helped 36 districts (that became
eligible and selected because they had produced the best district development plans) to strengthen their
planning capacity. The MOH district development department, the provincial directorates and the 36
eligible districts have been equipped with computers in 1999. In addition, 30 health facilities (not
necessarily the same as the 36 "eligible" ones) were rehabilitated within the framework of this component.
More facilities received equipment bought earlier in the course of the project. As most of the activities
planned at the district level were not actually carried out, the output indicators focusing on the districts
(indicators selected at the time of the mid-term review) are not considered relevant for this assessment. The
utilization rate and the health personnel attended delivery rate were expected to attain respectively 70
percent and 45 percent at the end of the project in the eligible districts. Information available indicates that
the utilization rate and the attended delivery rate were only 41 percent and 25 percent respectively,
nationwide. These rates are indeed lower than the targets, but it is clear that the expectations had been
unrealistically set too high.
Cost-recovery involving local communities was established simultaneously nationwide in early 1998. This
operation lacked preparation and a number of crucial management elements, including financial procedures
and the definition of the roles and responsibilities of the various actors, hence some of the problems that
occurred. While a recent audit showed a nasonably sound management of recovered funds, there are
uncertainties as to how and for what purpose these funds should be used.
- (d) Institutional development
The revised component included: (i) formulation of a health sector investment program and updating of
norms and standards for health services; (ii) irnprovement of human resource management, through
computerization of personnel management, development of a plan to redeploy health staff and strengthening
of the unit of MOH in charge of personnel management; (iii) upgrading of in-service training programs for
-6 -



health personnel; (iv) strengthening of IEC activities; and (v) development of a management and
information system at the district and central levels.
- Health sector investment programs have been formulated. The norms and standards for health services
have been upgraded. However, the work was done mostly by foreign consultants with limited involvement
by MOH, so that the new norms and standards were not appropriate for Malagasy conditions and could not
really be used. Revised norms and standards have been prepared, but have not yet been formalized.
- Strengthening of the personnel management succeeded with regard to the regular updating of all the
personnel files. However, due to some constraints on the side of the Administration and the poor
performance of the consultant, the computerized system is not yet working adequately. A personnel policy
memorandum has been adopted while waiting for a more comprehensive reform of the civil service status,
currently under preparation. This memorandum contains MOH-specific rules for the management of health
workers, particularly with regard to redeployment. The MOH did not implement a redeployment plan as
such but started to correct the staffing discrepancies between urban/rural and central/periphery in a more
progressive way, referring to the rules contained in the above-mentioned memorandum. Apart from
projections about the health personnel to be retired during the next few years, no comprehensive human
resource development plan taking into account the extension of the health facility network, the medical and
paramedical school outputs, the attrition rate for other reasons than retirement, and the private sector needs
has been elaborated.
- The project training component, which intended to harmonize the content of 12 training modules for
in-service training, finally resulted in reviewing the training curricula of the newly reopened paramedical
schools -- although only one module (leprosy) was finalized by the end of the project. A total of 895
trainers were trained, as compared to the 180 which were initially planned. Regarding the training of
district personnel, four modules on planning, management, monitoring, and evaluation have been finalized,
though they are not yet routinely used. A national training policy and a training master plan have been
formulated.
- The IEC service functioned quite adequately during the last two years producing IEC messages in
different formats (posters, leaflets, audio and video cassettes, TV spots, T-shirts, caps, bags, etc.) and in
the six dialectic national languages, dealing with polio eradication, cost-recovery, mental health and blood
donation. The service is also responsible for publishing a MOH biannual information and communication
publication for the health personnel. The IEC service has correspondents in most other MOH departnents.
- A computerized management information system was established at the central level in early 1998. It is
operating quite well and produces valuable and very useful health and management statistics, since July
1998.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project. There are no data
available to calculate a posteriori the economic rates of return or the cost effectiveness of the investnents
and activities that were actually financed under the project.
It should be noted, however, that both at the design stage and for the restructuring, a deliberate choice was
made by the Bank to finance those areas of interventions which have a high, demonstrated cost
effectiveness ratio, as identified in the document "Better Health for Africa" and the 1993 "World
Development Report".
-7 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Based on the discussion above on the achievement of objectives and the output by component (particularly
the institutional development component), the institutional development impact of the project can be
assessed as modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the first three years from 1991 to 1993, the project did not succeed in helping the Government
initiate the key reforms which were spelled out in the HSP. This period was marked by profound political
turmoil which led, after months of riots and disturbances, to the establishment of a new constitution in
August 1992. The political situation remained highly uncertain thereafter, until the election of a new
President and the formation of a new Govermment by the end of 1993. In this context, the credit took a
year to become effective. The project has sought to address key sector issues during its first years of
implementation, rather than before and during project preparation. As the project was designed in effect as
a "sector program", the lack of implementation of key sector reforms has hindered implementation of other
project activities.
The MOH had to develop and implement emergency programs to mitigate the disastrous effects of
cyclones, particularly the cyclone Geralda.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control: -
The project outcome was favorably affected by the fact that lessons learned from the poor performance of
the first three years of project implementation were taken into account in project restructuring and the risks
faced by the original project were dealt with through the restructuring. Project restructuring after the
mid-term review made the project more responsive to the Government's new health policy and strategies for
1996-2000, which Government had defined in agreement with all partners in the sector and which
constituted the framework for planning sector investment and donors' involvement, including that of IDA
through the restructured project.
A major factor which affected project implementation negatively was the 1997 crisis between the
Govermnent and the Bank resulting from the nomination of a National Coordinator, whose qualifications
and experience were not acceptable to the Bank. The crisis could have led to a suspension of
disbursements and cancellation of the credit Actually, disbursements were defacto suspended during that
period since nobody was authorized to sign checks. However, essential activities, such as anti-malaria
activities, TB treatment, etc. continued to be carried out with Government and other donor funding (e.g.,
WHO, EU, German and French Cooperation). It took several months as well as a lot of effort and
diplomacy to resolve this matter, and to reestablish good working relations based on mutual confidence and
respect In the end, the cooperation between Government and the Bank has been excellent. The project
management unit (UGP) was streamlined and performed very well, at a lower cost.
One important feature of this project is the contribution made by international and bilateral agencies, not as
- 8 -



cofinanciers, but as "contractors" or providers of technical assistance and training, such as: WHO and the
Italian Cooperation for the anti-malaria control program; the French Cooperation for the anti-tuberculosis
control program; the Pasteur Institute of Madagascar (IPM) for the anti-plague control program; and the
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) for the development of health districts.
S. 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was too ambitious and complex to be implemented during the period of high political turmoil
and uncertainty which prevailed at the beginning of the project. It was firmly grounded within a Health
Sector Program (HSP), the implementation of which required strong institutional capacity and donor
coordination, both of which were lacking in the early years of implementation. The project concept was
indeed very innovative back in the late 1980s, as it was conceived in effect as a "sector investment
program", to be refuied each year based on the previous year's performance. The MOH was to establish
annual work prograrns and financing plans, agree with donors on their respective share of financing and
finally present to IDA for review items to be financed under the credit (IDA being the financier of last
resort). This process, which was to constitute the implementation mechanism for the project as described
in the original credit agreement, was not followed in the early years of the project. The MOH prepared ad
hoc annual work programs, neither framed by the HSP (which ceased to be a point of reference) nor
discussed with donors. As a result, these annual work programs often claimed high levels of financing
from the IDA credit, without clear strategies and consensus with other donors. It is only in the last few
years that annual work programs were properly prepared and used as a basis for preparing procurement
and disbursement plans; in the end, the system worked well.
In addition to problems resulting from the complexity of the project and the poor institutional capacity of
MOH in its early years, the project suffered from serious weaknesses in management, resulting in a wide
range of problems from cases of misprocurement to unsatisfactory accounting and qualified audits. As all
projects implemented by Ministries, the project had to be implemented within the context of the somewhat
cumbersome procedures of the Malagasy administration.
Some excellent decisions taken at the sector level were not always properly implemented because of lack of
preparation. A case in point is the decision to simultaneously implement nationwide in early 1998, cost
recovery involving local communities. Some problems occurred because the operation lacked preparation
and a number of crucial management elements, including financial procedures and the definition of roles
and responsibilities of all the actors involved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of appraisal, the cost of the Project was estimated at US$ 42.5 million. IDA planned to provide
financing of US$ 31.0 million, and the Government contribution was estimated at US$ 11.5 million. The
actual cost, or latest estimate of the cost of the Project is US$ 34.36 million, which was financed by US$
30.22 million from the IDA credit and only US$ 4.14 million from the Government.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is a complex question, particularly in the case of a project which was successful in dealing
with many sectoral issues, and for which there is already a follow-on project that continues and expands
most of the project activities. The overall macro-economic performance of the country is also an element
of uncertainty. Generally, the existence of government commitment and a favorable policy environment as
- 9-



well as local participation are factors that should contribute to the sustainability of the project.
Regarding the individual components, malaria control is now a mature program; it has rationalized the
method to control malaria, and will be sustainable at a relatively low cost. The same is true for the
tuberculosis control program, which is an exemplary one. The very favorable cost effectiveness ratio of the
strategy adopted for schistosomiasis control should make that program sustainable. On the other hand, the
sustainability of the plague control program is more questionable, since it will still require a lot of
interventions within and outside the health sector. The epidemiological surveillance system seems to be
well established. As for drugs and cost recovery, there is no reason why SALAMA should not become
financially viable, provided that it remains aE private non-profit drug procurement and distribution agency
and provided that budgetary allocations for drugs do not jeopardize the functioning of the revolving fund
system. It may be useful, however, to revisit the cost recovery system to put in place an institutional
strengthening program while considering the questions of equity and access as well as the harmonization of
the various donors' cost recovery schemes. The question of sustainability for the support to district health
services does not arise since achievements have been minimal. Despite a number of uncertainties, the
modest results of the institutional development component are by and large likely to be maintained.
Somewhat related to the question of institutional development and sustainability, it is worth noting that the
African Development Bank (AfDB) is using the project's management unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet -
UGP) for the financing that it intends to provide to the sector.
A very conservative assessment of sustainability would point towards a rating of "uncertain", an option
which is not available, however. On balance, and after giving proper weight to the importance of the
communicable disease control programs and to their impact, the sustainability of the project can be rated as
"likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Health care delivery is an on-going responsibility and activity of MOH and its raison d'etre. As mentioned
above, activities carried out under the project are being continued by MOH, as part of its normal
responsibilities, with Govermment financing and with the support of donors including a follow-on project
financed by IDA. The same performance indicators used for this project (of which a summary is presented
in Annex 1) could easily be monitored, since one of the achievements of the project is the establishment and
operation of a satisfactory and well-performing management information system, including health statistics.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As discussed above in the section on quality at entry, the performance of the Bank was unsatisfactory.
Preparation and appraisal underestimated the risks associated with such a complex operation and paid
insufficient attention to project implementation, organization and management issues.
7.2 Supervision;
At the beginning of the project, there may not have been an appropriate skill mix in the Bank supervision
team to help the Borrower in carrying out the process or sequence of activities: planning of actions or
measures to be taken - procurement plan - procurement - disbursement - accounting and financial
management.
-10-



The mid-term review (MTR) for this project, carried out in June and October 1995, was probably one of
the most comprehensive and thorough of all the reviews in which the Bank ever participated. The MTR
was carried out jointly with MOH and WHO and other donors, with the support of a consulting firm. Bank
staff were instrumental and deserve credit for ensuring that all the problems were thoroughly analyzed and
that remedial measures (including a significant restructuring) were adopted. The role of the Bank may have
been too overbearing, however, and may have inhibited more active participation of nationals in the
restructuring exercise. After the restructuring, it seems that Bank staff displayed some bias in favor of an
excessive use of foreign consultants and of structures parallel to the directorates and units of MOH, which
became to some extent marginalized.
In 1997 the Bank was right not to give its no-objection to the national coordinator proposed by MOH, and
to try to find a compromise acceptable to the Borrower in order to resolve the crisis. It is not clear why this
incident was allowed to happen and to last for so many months. Whether the Bank could have done more
to prevent the occurrence of such a crisis or to solve it more expeditiously remains an open question.
In any event, the Bank interventions in recent years have been more "low key", in its relations with both
MOH and other donors (in effect, among donors the European Union took the lead over from the Bank).
The quality of the Bank supervision improved considerably and would deserve a rating of satisfactory, or
even highly satisfactory.
In May 1999, the project was used as a case study at a workshop for the Africa supervision training
course. The training group (mostly experienced TTLs) and the trainers, who compiled their ratings
independently of each other, agreed on an overall assessment of 2. Although this was nothing like a
thorough full QAG review, the consistency of the ratings strongly suggests a solidly satisfactory quality of
supervision.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance can be rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
According to the SAR, the HSP was prepared by the MOH with the support of consultants. It is likely that
at the time the MOH was influenced by and followed the lead provided by the Bank and other donors in
project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Borrower has varied during the eight-year implementation period of the project.
From 1992 until 1994. Initially, the Health Sector Improvement Project (CRESAN) was a poor performer
because of serious management weaknesses, and was rated a problem project in 1994. Moreover, it seems
that there was a lack of political commitment on the part of MOH to address major sector issues, especially
with regard to the chronic shortage of drugs at public health facilities and the need to decentralize health
administration and to redeploy health personnel.
In view of the management problems the Bank requested the establishment of a Project Management Unit
(PMU). Project management improved as a consequence but was later jeopardized by problems with two
- 11 -



awards of contracts following international competitive bidding (ICB) and unacceptable delays in the
signing of contracts which had received the no-objection of the Bank. Furthermore, the management
methods of the National Coordinator became questionable for both the MOH and the Bank. The project
was managed in a non transparent way, both technically and financially. The National Coordinator was
making decisions by himself, without consulting the MOH and the specific units in charge of project
implementation. This further contributed lo undermining MOH's sense of ownership towards the project.
Project financial management also became questionable, to the extent that the 1994 audit was qualified.
From 1995 to 1996. In late 1994, policy dialogue between the Govemnment and the Bank proved
successful, resulting in the implementation, in 1995, of an action plan with far reaching results: (i) the
MOH initiated key sector reforns with regard to decentralization and drug procurement; (ii) donor
coordination and project management were considerably strengthened (the procurement issues were solved
to the satisfaction of the MOH and the Banlk, and project management was improved thanks to the
replacement of the National Coordinator and the streamlining of management and financial procedures);
and (iii) the project was restructured in 1995/1996 to help the MOH implement its new strategies. Since
then, the project has been successful in supporting the MOH in implementing: (i) the decentralization of the
health system by strengthening the newly established 111 health districts with the definition, in
collaboration with all partners, of a minimum package of essential health services, norms, and standards as
well as with the drafting of an acceptable policy on cost recovery; (ii) communicable disease control
programs, which have registered significant results over the last ten years; (iii) the creation of a private
non-profit drug procurement unit; and (iv) institutional strengthening through personnel management and
in-service training, and the establishment of a health information and management system. In addition, the
MOH elaborated its national health policy in April 1996, following a two-year participatory process which
has involved all partners from the public and private sectors.
From 1997 to 1999. A change in project management in April 1997 put this now successful project at
risk. A new Minister of Health (appointed in March 1997) dismissed the current national coordinator
(who, in the opinion of the Bank, was performing well) and, without Bank's approval, nominated a person
whose qualifications and experience were not acceptable to the Bank; as a matter of fact, that person was
the same person that had performed very poorly as project coordinator during the period 1992-1994 (the
project was rated a problem project in 1994) and had to be replaced. The problem was finally solved with
the recruitment of a new National Coordinator, and a leaner project management unit (Unite de Gestion du
Projet - UGP) performed well, and at a lower cost. By focusing on the coordination of activities by the
different directorates and units of MOH which imnplemented the program and facilitating the cooperation
among donors, MOH and the UGP operated what was in effect a "sector investment program" the way it
should be done.
Government has not always complied with its undertaking to provide counterpart funds or has provided
them with substantial delays. One of the unfortunate consequences has been that in a number of instances
SALAMA took delivery of drugs with a very short remaining validity period, because MOH did not have
the funds to pay the customs duties on those imported drugs.
The various problems that have affected the project and the unfortunate incident regarding the appointment
of a National Coordinator should not overshtadow the many achievements of MON, particularly in recent
years, thanks to the dynamism and competence of the highest levels of the Ministry. Here are just a few
examples of the very positive initiatives thai: have been taken in a great variety of areas:
* MOH has taken charge of the coordination of donors, chairing twice a year donor roundtables which,
in addition to being a forum for exchange of information, provided donors with an opportunity to
- 12 -



express their interest in participating in the execution of the project. It was very appropriate for the
MOH to put itself in the driver seat.
*  MOH has been quite open to the participation of donors in many activities, with no preserve or out-of
bounds activity (pas de domaine reserve ou chasse gardee), if such openness could contribute to
success. A case in point is the establishment of a well-performing computerized management
information system (MIS), where the European Union contributed the software which is based on the
experience of many African countries and which works very well.
*  MOH management made special efforts to remain in touch with the lowest levels of the health systems
and to focus on "results on the ground", with the Minister chairing semi-annual meetings with the heads
of all the 111 health districts and quarterly meetings with the provincial directors.
* The simultaneous introduction of cost recovery, in the whole country, rather than phasing it in through
pilot operations, was probably the right approach for such an essential, but politically sensitive and
potentially controversial reform. One might regret, of course, that the preparatory work was not as
complete and thorough as it should have been, but in the end cost recovery is now functioning
nationwide.
*  In the preparation of a new health infrastructure development plan (carte sanitaire), MOH took into
account the existence of private health practitioners and facilities.
*  MOH did not hesitate to rely on private contractors whenever they could provide a more efficient
service than the Ministry itself (for example, contracting to NGOs the management of drugs in
hospitals).
*  MOH introduced a scheme to provide incentives to about 700 medical doctors to set up a private
practice in underserved areas.
Generally, the MOITs good initiatives may have been more beneficial if they had been preceded by better
preparatory work in a participatory manner among the Ministry staff as well as other donors. Donor
coordination is definitely a responsibility and prerogative of Govenmuent However, in order for the project
to benefit from the talents and experience of the intemational and national organizations that operate in the
field, it is important that donors be appropriately consulted and informed about progress in project
implementation so that they may cooperate in project execution (as has been the case with GTZ, WHO,
UNICEF, and the Italian and French Cooperations). The same is true for all other stakeholders, including
the Ministry staff which should participate fully in all stages of the project cycle. The whole project
experience demonstrates that nationals can be trusted to manage and implement a project quite well.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance can be rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned through the successful implementation of this project in Madagascar were already
applied during the last few years of project implementation and were used in the preparation of the Second
Health Sector Support Project (Cr. 3302-MAG). They are as follows:
*  The Government should, at an early stage, develop a comprehensive policy framework and sector
strategy that form the basis for the intervention of all donors in the sector.
* Officials of the Ministry or relevant Government Agency should always be completely involved and in
- 13 -



charge of all stages of the project cycle.
*  For certain diseases linked to poverty and unsanitary conditions (such as the plague and cholera), a
strategy confined within the health secotr has important limitations, and needs to be complemented by a
multi sectoral approach (such as the implementation of measures to improve hygiene and sanitation).
*  It may be better to introduce major, politically sensitive, and potentially controversial reforms (such as
cost recovery) all at once, nationwide rather than progressively, provided that the necessary
preparatory work has been done.
*  Project design should include suitable arrangements for implementation by the Borrower, including
eventually the establishment of a project coordination unit.
*  Project design should include a minimum of realistic performance indicators, both for project output
and project outcome/impact, that the Borrower/implementing agency can collect and monitor, with
detailed information on the relevant methodology and the means of measurement.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In 1991, the Health Sector Improvement Project was decided in partnership between the Government of the
Republic of Madagascar and the International Development Association (IDA) in the presence of
representatives of outside partners of the Ministry of Health (MINSAN/MOH), based on the objectives of
the Health Sector Programme (HSP/PSS) for Primary Health Care (SSP). From 1992 to 1994, in its initial
phase, the implementation encountered some difficulties highlighting the risks that the project
implementation might be faced with: (1) socio-political context; (2) lack of collaboration between the
project and the supervisory ministry; (3) technical problems inherent with the accounting system adopted
by the Project Management Unit (PMU/UGP); and (4) differing views between the Borrower and IDA
regarding the details of implementation and sustainability.
In the second phase, from 1995 to 1996, there was a distinct improvement in disbursements after the
restructuring. The extensive resort to sub-contracting with international consultants and various
organizations (GTZ, OMS, IPM) and the creation of support units (Cellules d'Appui aux Districts -
CERAD) at the level of the 6 provinces contributed to this improvement. However, this involved high cost
in expenditure category 3 of the Project (Consultants, Studies, Training) that was increased by more than
100% of the initial amount allocated. Therefore, the reallocation of funds at mid-term review, rather
decreased the amounts allocated to Works (category 1) and kept stationary the amounts for drug
procurement (category 5). Concurrently, there was a noticeable slowing down in the national
implementation of the Project. On the other hand, equipments (category 2) were purchased but were not
directly utilized by the population. Personnel! qualifications improved through multiple training (category
3), but in view of the decay of infrastructures and the lack of renewal of technical equipment, these
investments have not had noticeable effects on the quality of care provided to the population.
In 1997, the differences of views between the Government and the Bank, regarding the orientation and the
management of the Project, have been revised so that the population might get the maximum profit from the
benefits of the Project, in spite of the constraints. Also, for its third and last phase, following changes in
project officers on both sides, the Government's and the Bank's, the Project has been managed at lower
cost and has given priority to national implementation. The resumption of the project operations has been
oriented towards strategies clearly defined in the master plan of 1998-2000, that facilitate the cooperation
between all partners and MINSAN/MOH. The implementation of the Project did proceed in a climate of
open and real cooperation, and its contribution in refonning the sector has achieved concrete results, to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association. The most noticeable results are the development of a
- 14 -



Health System based on District Health Services and the support to the implementation of a strategy of
Financial Participation by the Users - Participation Financi6re des Usagers (PFU), the generalization of
which was decided in early 1998.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/log Frame Matrix
NOTE: The targets listed below have been set at about the time of the mid term review. Some of those
were far too optimistic and unrealistic, so that even in cases where the targets have not been reached, some
of the achievements may still be considered satisfactory.
Kev Performance Indicators
OUTCOME/IMPACT INDICATOR                         Baseline   Target   Actual
Communicable diseases:
* Malaria: (i) control malaria epidemics in the            41,940    173,271
highlands
a) decrease morbidity, # of cases (% decrease)  213,985   (-70%/O)    (19%)
b) decrease mortality in the highlands, 4 of deaths  1,105  553       716
(%/odecrease)                                              (-50%)    (-35%)
Communicable diseases:
*Tuberculosis: (i) increase cure rate from 60% to  60%     70%        67%
70%                                                                  (1998)
Communicable diseases:
* Plague Lethality rate                         21%        5%         19%
Communicable diseases:
* HIV Prevalence Rate                           0.07%      0.15%      0.14%
Essential drugs: ensure drugs are supplied regularly
to health facilities.                           no         Yes        yes
Primary care:
(i) utilization rate of health facilities       na         70%        41%
(ii) rates of attended deliveries               na         45%        25%
Institutional strengthening:
(i) define a health policy, norms, standards and a 3-
year rolling plan                               no         Yes        ves**
*Unless indicated otherwise, the figures in the column "actual" are for 1999.
** Except for norms and standards: the work was done by foreign consultants with limited
involvement by MOH, so that the new niorms and standards were not appropriate for Malagasy
conditions and could not really be used - revised norms and standards have been prepared but
have not yet been formalized.
- 16 -



Output Indicators                Baseline     TargetLE Actual
Malaria.
i) OPID coverage population                 1,544,471    2,500,000   2,529,5
ii) # of personel trained in case management  0          2,022      45
iii) mosquito nets dissemination in lowlands  0          75,000      1,400
17.360
Tuberculosis
i) decrease in drop out rates               25%          18%         17%
(1998)
Plague.
i) # of personel trained in case management  25          366         249
ii) # of HCs provided with adequate supplies  650        850        850
iii) # of HCs where DWague is controlled    161          425        288
HlIV/AIDSlSTIs
i) # of personel trained in STIs syndromic  0            300         1.283
approach                                    0            31          12
ii) # of AV & Radio spots produced          0            8           5
iii) # of tvpe of posters & leaflets produced
Surveillance system and Oper. Research
i) # of sentinel stations                   8            12          12
Primary Care
i) strengthen capability of districts teams to  0        36          36
elaborate dev. Plans
ii) support planning in 36 districts        0            36          0
iii) communities supported to establish
committees. cost recovery                   0            216         1.950
Essential Drugs
i) Create private non profit drug procurement &
Purchase 1st revolving drug fund            na           done        done
Institutional Strengthening
i) strengthen personel management
- update all personel files                 none         done        done
- computerize data/management               none         done       none
ii) Strengthen in-service training
- # of trainers trained                     0            180         1,056
iii) Strengthen IEC staff capacity
-1# trained (central, regional levels)      0            141         118
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
1. Comunicable Disease Control   19.43  18.60     16.53     85          89
Proaram__
2. Maternal and Child Health  4.94   _             0.19
care/Family Planning Program          _
3. Central Purchasing Agency   -2.00               2.36                118
(CPA)                                 _
4. Other Primnary Health Care  10.73    10.80      6.29     59          58
(PHC) Programs//Support to
district health services and
community-managed cost
recoverv                              _
5. Institutional Strengthening  6.10     5.00      8.99     147        180
6. Taxes                               _       1.30   _____
Total Proiect Cost           42.50    _ 36.40     34.36     81          94
Total Financing Reuired      42.50      36.40      46       8            4
* including contingencies
Appraisal estimate of US$42.5 million excluded duties estimated at US$1.5 million, which were to be paid
by direct budgetary transfer. Actual amounts (or latest estimates) for all components include taxes.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements A  ralsal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
|1. Works                 |    0.00           1.90          2 .40          0.00          4.30
}                 0   ~~~~~~~~~(0.00)      (1.40)   0 (.20)       (0.00)         (2.60) 
2. Goods                       19.10          0.70          6.10          0.00           25.90 
(17.90)        (0.50)        (0.70)        (0.00)        (19.10)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          2.40                         2.40
(technical assistance and      (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.30)           0           (2.30)
studies)                                                               ____|__. _.._
4. Training                    0.00           0.00          2.30           0.00          2.30
(0.00)         000)         (2.30)         (0.00)        (2.30)
5. Stipends & Travel           0.00           0.00          2.20                         2.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.30)           0           (1.30)
6. Incremental Operating       0.00           0.00          4.10                         4.10
Costs                         (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.40)          Q            (3.40)
Total                       19.10          2.60          19.50          0.00          41.20
_______________________       (17.90)        (1.90)       (11.20)         (0.00)        (31.00)
Goods include Vehicles & Equipment Supplies, and Drugs and Technical Inputs.Total of US$41.2 million
excludes taxes of US$1.3 million.
-18-



Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
I Works                           0.00            2.15            1.53           0.00            3.68
(0.00)          (1.51)         (1.10)         (0.00)          (2.61)
2  Goods                          5.29            0.53           11.98           0.00            17.80
(4.41)         (0.44)         (11.66)         (0.00)          (16.51)
3. Services                       0.00            0.68            8.46           0.00            9.14
(technical assistance and        (0.00)          (0.57)          (7.88)         (0.00)          (8.45)
studies)
4. Training                       0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Stipends & Travel              0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Incremental Operating          0.00            0.00            3.74           0.00            3.74
Costs                            (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.65)         (0.00)          (2.65)
Total                          5.29            3.36           25.71           0.00            34.36
(4.41)         (2.52)         (23.29)         (0.00)          (30.22)
Goods include Vehicles & Equipment Supplies, and Drugs and Technical Inputs.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
roject Financing b  Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
s-.., -~  . ~   r~k.ot pprasa
1. Communicable Disease    14.63     4.80                  16.22      0.31                110.9   6.5    0.0
Control Program
2. Maternal and Child      3.72       1.22                 0.18       0.01                4.8    0.8    0.0
Health Care/Family
Planning Program
3. Central Purchasing      0.00       0.00                 2.15       0.21                 0.0    0.0    0.0
Agency (CPA)
4. OtherPrimarylHealth     9.55       1.18                 5.89       0.40                61.7   33.9    0.0
Care (PHC) Programs
5. Institutional           3.10       3.00                 5.77       3.21                186.1  107.0   0.0
Strengthening
Taxes                      0.00       1.30                 0.00       0.00                 0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                     31.00      11.50                 30.22      4.14                97.5   36.0    0.0
The appraisal estimate of US$11.5 million for government financing included taxes estimnated at US$1.3
million but excluded duties estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent, which were to be paid by direct
budgetary transfer.
Actual amounts (latest estimates) for all components include taxes.
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project. There are no data
available to calculate a posteriori the economic r ates of return or the cost effectiveness of the investmnents
and activities that were actually financed under the project.
It should be noted, however, that both at the design stage and for the restructuring a deliberate choice was
made by the Bank to finance those areas of interventions which have a high, demonstrated cost
effectiveness ratio, as identified in the document "Better Health for Africa" and the 1993 World
Development Report.
-20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
MonthYear    Count        Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/1987                       1   Economist/TTL
I   Nutrition Consultant
I   Health Financing Consultant
11/1989                       1   Division Chief
I   Economist
I   Public Health Specialist
1   Nutrition Economist
Health Economist (Consultant)
03/1990                       2   Economist
3   Health Specialist
I   Health Specialist (Consultant)
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/1990                       l   Economist
I   Health Specialist
2   Health Specialist
(Consultant)
I   Architect/Urban Planner
(Consultant)
10/1990                       1   Architect/Urban Planner
(Consultant)
Supervision
07/1991                       1  Economist (TTL)                       S                 S
2  Health Specialist
I  Health Specialist(consultant)
02/1992                       1  Division Chief                        S                 S
I  Economist (TTL)
I  Public Health Specialist
07/1992                       1  Public Health Specialist (TTL)        S                 S
1  Population Health Specialist
I  Implementation Specialist
1  Economist
I  Information, Education and
Communication Specialist
I  Financial Analyst
Health Specialist (Consultant)
-21 -



02/1993                       1  Public Health Specialist (TEL)        S                 S
I  Implementation Specialist
12/1993                       1  Division Chief .                     U                  U
I  Public Health Specialist (TTL)
1  Information, Education and
Cornmunication Specialist
I  Implementation Specialist
04/1994                       1  Implementation Specialist             U                 U
10/1994                       1  Health Economist (TTL)               U                  U
12/1994                       1  Health Economist (TTL)               U                  U
I  Pharmacist (Consultant)
06/1995                       1  Health Economist (TTL)                S                 S
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Information, Education and
Corr-munication Specialist
I  Health Economist (Consultant)
I  Pharmacist (Consultant)
10/1995                       1  Health Economist (TTL)                S                 S
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Implementation Specialist
12/1995                       1  Health Economist (TTL)                S                 S
06/1996                       1  Healhh Economist (TTL)                S                 S
I  AIDS Specialist
12/1996                       1  Health Economist (TTL)                S                 S
1  AIDS Specialist
2  Nutrition Specialist (Consultant)
1  Publiz Health Specialist
(Consultant)
01/1998                       1  Public Health Specialist (TTL)        S                 S
I  Public Health Specialist
(Consultant)
05/1998                       1  Public Health Specialist (TTL)        S                 S
I  Operations/Implementation
Specialist
10/1998                       1  Operations/Implementation             S                 S
Specialtist (TTL)
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Public Health Specialist
(Consultant)
- 22 -



08/1999                      1  Operations/Implementation            S                 S
Specialist (IT-L)
I  Public Health Specialist
i  Public Health Specialist
(Consultant)
12/1999                      1  Operations/Implementation            S                 S
Specialist (TTL)
Public Health Specialist
Public Health Specialist
(Consultant)
ICR
05/2000                      1   Consultant
I   Language Program Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
._____________    *No stff we*k               us$ sO00
Identification/Preparation             119.5                      286.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                   84.1                      226.9
Supervision                            200.9                      807.2
ICR                                      9.5                       42.9
Total                                  414.0                     1363.1
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
F Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Institutional Development              0 H  O SU S M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Gender                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
FM Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
f Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  O NA
 Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
I Lending                                           OHS OS  *U  OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  OiU  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S  O U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   OU  O HU
;Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report No. 9417-MAG, dated May 7, 1991.
Project Appraisal Document No. 19801 -MAG, dated November 4, 1999.
Development Credit Agreement dated June 12, 1991.
Agreement Providing for Amendment and Restatement of Development Credit Agreement, dated June 24,
1996.
Aide-Memoires from November 1987 to December 1999.
Enquete Aupres des B&nificiaires, Institut National de la Statistique (INSTAT), Decembre 1999.
Borrower Contribution (including annexes), dated April 13 2000.
-26 -



Annex 8. Borrower Contribution
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE                                 REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
SECRETARIAT GENERAL                                   Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fandrosoana
Unit6 de Gestion du Projet
d'Appui au Secteur Sante
(CRESAN)
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU
PREMIER PROJET D'APPUI AU SECTEUR SANTE (CRESAN I)
(Credit IDA 2251-MAG)
UGP, le 13 Avril 2000
Le Coordonnateur National du Projet
Dr. RALAINIRINA Paul Richard
-27 -



SOMMAIRE
PAGE
1. ELABORATION ET MISE EN PLACE DU PROJET                                           29
2. STRUCTURE DU PROJET                                                               29
2.1.   Dates cles du Projet
2.2.   Objectifs du Projet
2.3.   Contenu du Projet
3. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET                                               31
3.1.   Appui i Ia wise en oeuvre des Programmes de lutte contre les Maladies
Transmissibles
3.2.   Amelioration de la disponibilite et de l'accessibilite des M6dicaments
3.3.   Amelioration de la qualite des Services fie Sante des Districts et developpement
3.4.   Renforcement Institutionnel
4. BILAN GENERAL ET LECONS TIREES                                                    40
4.1.   Bilan general
4.2.   Gestion du Projet et performance de l'UGP
4.3.   Contraintes et lecons tirees
4.4.   Appui de la Banque dans la realisation du Projet
5. PERSPECTIVES                                                                      41
(pour Ia gestion du CRESAN II)
- 28 -



1. ELABORATION ET MISE EN PLACE DU PROJET
Le Projet d'Appui au Secteur Sante (Projet CRESAN) a ete convenu en 1991 entre la Republique de Madagascar et
l'Association Intemationale pour le Developpement (IDA). 11 a fait suite a la requete du Gouvemement presentee a l'IDA
pour sa contribution au financement du Programme Sectoriel de Sante (PSS) en 1990.
Le Projet a ete envisage et identifie a la suite de l'Etude Sectorielle Population et Sante realisee en 1986. Avec un revenu
par habitant de 270 dollars en 1997, Madagascar figurait parmi les pays les plus pauvres, et la situation sanitaire etait loin
d'etre satisfaisante. Les valeurs des indicateurs socio-sanitaires etaient proches des moyennes observees dans les pays d'
Afrique subsaharienne : esperance de vie a la naissance estimee A 50 ans, mortalite infantile a 125 pour 1.000, mortalite
matemelle de 350 A 400 pour 100.000 naissances vivantes, taux brut de mortalite A 17 pour 1.000 en 1988
(RGPH-INSTAT- 1993).
Eu egard du caractere ddlicat de ces problemes de sante, une Politique de sante basee sur les soins de sante primaires
(SSP) a ete mise en oeuvre par le gouvemement pour developper son systeme de sante en priorisant les services de sante
de base, surtout prdventif, A
l'amelioration de la desserte des usagers dans les zones rurales jusque-1a defavorisees, et A la formation du personnel
paramedical, cela avec la participation des communautes. Cependant, les contraintes financieres du Gouvernement avaient
des impacts sur le fonctionnement du systeme en expansion et entrainaient utne deterioration progressive des offres de
services de sante.
Le gouvemement s'est ainsi propose d'axer sa strategie de developpement du secteur sante sur un redressement du
systeme de sante publique qui lui permette de fournir les services de base necessaires pour rdpondre aux besoins de santd
de la population, en donnant la prioritd au traitement des episodes de maladies endemiques les plus courantes, et A 1'
amelioration de la survie des nourrissons, des enfants et des femmes enceintes.
Le gouvemement a soumis ainsi sa strategie a ses partenaires lors d'une reunion informelle des bailleurs de fonds en
septembre 1990. C'est dans ce cadre qu'a ete conclu le Projet d'Appui au Secteur Sante (CRESAN) dont la contribution
de l'IDA s'eleve au montant de 22.900.000 DTS, soit environ 31.000.000 dollars US.
Les objectifs du Projet d'Appui au Secteur Sante ont ete alors d'aider le Ministere de la Sante (Minsan) A mettre en ceuvre
le Programme Sectoriel de Sante pour reduire les niveaux de mortalite, de morbidite et de feconditd, rendre les prestations
de sante publique plus efficaces tant au niveau des Centres de Sante de Base, des centres d'orientation recours, et des
centres nationaux de reference, et mieux adapter la politique generale du secteur de la sante aux besoins et aux conditions
existants A Madagascar.
2. STRUCTURE DU PROJET
2.1. Dates cles du Proiet
Le Projet a ete signe le 12 Juin 1991, et mis en vigueur au 30 Avril 1992. La revue A mi-parcours a ete effectuee en 2
etapes: Juin et Octobre 1995. Ce Projet devait s'etaler en 5 ans: de 1992 A 1997, mais il a connu 2 prorogations
successives, l'une de 2 ans, decidee lors de la Revue A mi-parcours en 1995, et l'autre de 6 mois qui a ete convenue en
Juin 1999. La cl6ture a ete ainsi effective le 31 Decembre 1999.
2.2. Obiectifs du Proiet
Apres la restructuration convenue au cours de la revue A mi-parcours, les objectifs du Projet etaient de rdduire de facon
significative la mortalite et la morbidite a Madagascar, en appuyant le Ministere de la Sante (Minsan) A : (a)- Renforcer
les programmes de lutte contre les maladies transmissibles et les activites de surveillance epiddmiologique ; (b)-
Augmenter la disponibilitd et l'accessibilite financiere en mddicaments essentiels de bonne qualitd ; (c)- Ameliorer la
qualite des services de sante des districts (Centres de Sante de Base et Hopitaux de premier recours) et developper la
- 29 -



participation et la gestion communautaire au recouvrement des cofits des services; et (d)- Renforcer les capacitds du
Minsan a: (i) gerer le personnel de santd et assurer une formation continue de qualite ; (ii) developper des activites d'
information, d'education et de communication (IEC); et (iii) concevoir un systeme national d'information et de gestion
sanitaire (SNIGS).
2.3. Contenu du Proiet
Le projet contient ainsi quatre (04) parties, a savoir:
23. 1- Le Renforcement des programmes de lutte contre les maladies transmissibles
Dont les Objectifs spicifiques sont de: (I)-Reduire les taux de mortalite et de morbidite associes au paludisme
respectivement de 25% et de 70% dans les zones de transmission instable et de 10% et 20% dans les zones de
transmission stable; (2)-Detecter 60% des tuberculoses pulmonaires positives attendues et gudrir 70% des malades
detectes ; (3)-Augmenter de 60% le nombre de malades pris en charge dans les dispensaires MST/SIDA ; et (4)-Diminuer
de 20% a 5% le taux de letalite national des cas confirmes de peste;
2.3.2- L 'amelioration de la disponibilite et de l'accessibilite des medIcaments
Dont 1' Objectif specifique consiste a : Assurer la disponibilite permanente et l'accessibilite financiere des medicaments
dans plus de la moitie des formations sanitaires de base du pays ; grice a la mise en place d'une centrale d'achat privee a
but non lucratif financierement autonome, chargee d'acheter les mddicaments essentiels sous nom generique et
consommables medicaux et de les vendre aux secteurs publics et prive a but non lucratif
2.3.3- L 'ame'lioration de la qualite des Services de Santei des Districts et developpement du recouvrement des coOls a
gestion communautaire
Dont les Objectifs specifiques sont de: (I)-Augmenter le taux de frequentation des fornations sanitaires a 0,7
contact/habitant/an dans pres de la moitie des districts de sante du pays ; (2)-Atteindre un taux de recouvrement des coats
des medicaments de 100% dans le tiers des Centres de Sante publics du pays ; et (3)-Obtenir une absence de rupture de
stock en medicament dans 75% des Centres de Sante A gestion communautaire ayant developpe le recouvrement des cofits.
23 .4-Renforcement Institutionnel
Dont les Objectifs spkcifiques sont de: (I)-Elaborer urne politique du personnel et preparer un plan de reddploiement du
personnel ; (2)-Amdliorer les modules de formation continue et assurer que 40% des districts les utilisent ; et
(3)-Augmenter de 100% le nombre de productions IEC dans le domaine de la sante.
- 30 -



3. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
3.1. APDui A la mise en ceuvre des Pro2rammes de lutte contre les maladies transmissibles
Programme: Lutte contre le Paludisme
1. Activites Realisees
Le Projet a contribue a I'am6lioration du diagnostic et de la prise en charge (PEC) des cas par.: (1) le Renforcement des
capacites de diagnostic des Laboratoires grace a 1' achat de materiels, de reactifs et de consommables de laboratoire, (2) la
formation et/ou recyclage de 194 microscopistes dans les 111 CHD des 6 regions (sur 125 attendus), (3) la formation a la
PEC des cas simples et des cas graves pour 496 Medecins et 841 Paramedicaux, (4) la diffusion de la Politique Nationale
de Lutte contre le Paludisme a toutes les Formations Sanitaires (FS) a partir de 1998, (5) la diffusion de 4500 guides de
PEC des cas graves aux FS, (6) la mise a la disposition au niveau des FS publiques des antipaludiques de 1Sre intention
(chloroquine) et de 2e intention A travers les commandes des SSD A la Centrale d'Achat, (7) I'appui a la mise en place de
dispensation Communautaire de chloroquine, mais qui n'a pas fait l'objet d'un suivi rigoureux malheureusement ; (8) par
ailleurs, 100 Medecins et 393 paramedicaux ont etd formes A la chimioprophylaxie des femmes enceintes et la mise a leur
disposition de la chloroquine .
Quant a la lutte anti-vectorielle (L4 V), le Projet aflnance: (1) 1'execution, avec I'appui technique de 1'OMS, des
Operations de Pulverisation intra-Domiciliaire (OPID) dans les Hautes Terres Centrales (HTC) A partir de 1993, couvrant
tous les ans en moyenne 2,5 millions d'habitants; pour cela, il y a eu achat de 351 tonnes de DDT, de 66 voitures 4x4
double cabine, de divers materiels pour l'execution des operations et des materiels de protection des Agents Aspergeurs
(combinaison, chaussures, gants, chapeau de pluie...). Les OPID seront desormais focalisees aux zones des marges et aux
zones identifiees par le systeme d'alerte instaIll, (2) le lancement des Programmes Moustiquaires Impregnees d'
Insecticides (PMII) pour les zones c6tibres et les marges des HTC par l'achat de 70.000 moustiquaires et de 31.260 litres
de Deltamdtrine pour leur imprdgnation/reimpregnation, la formation des Agents d'impregnation ainsi que de la
communautd sur les techniques d'impregnation/reimpregnation. (3) la formation de 2 Medecins a l'exterieur sur la Lutte
anti-vectorielle.
Pour le renforcement des Activites de Surveillance Epidemiologique et de Recherche, le projet a contribud a: (1) la
formation a 1'exterieur de 4 Medecins et d'un Technicien en Paludologie, ainsi que (2) celle d'un Medecin et d'un
Technicien en Entomologie Medicale
Pour les Activites IEC, il y a eu appui a: (1) la Celebration annuelle de la Journee Nationale de mobilisation sur la lutte
antipaludique dans les 6 Rdgions et dans quelques Districts Sanitaires, executees par des Comitds regionaux de lutte, (2)
la production et diffusion de support IEC sous forme d'affiches et depliants ayant pour th6mes: chimioprophylaxie de la
femme enceinte, signes de la fibvre, dose correcte de la chloroquine pour la chimiotherapie precoce A domicile.
11. Mobilisation des ressources
II a dte prevu initialement d'utiliser 9,11 millions de USD du Credit pour le Programme de lutte contre le Paludisme, mais
a la fm 10,9millions USD ont ete utilises, environ 35% du total du Credit. Certaines activites ont ete sous-traitees avec
l'OMS pour un montant de 1.770.145 USD.
III. Bilan et Impacts
(1) DMs 1998, 60% des Agents de Sante de Base en moyenne maltrisent et appliquent une prise en charge correcte des cas
(2) Les campagnes d'OPID a eu des impacts positifs dans les HTC :(a) on n'a plus notd les epidemies de grande envergure
comme en 1987/1988 ; (b) il y a eu. diminution des nombres de cas de paludisme presumes sur l'ensemble des consultants
: 10,1% en 1999 contre 15,7% en 1997, la diminution est plus nette dans les zones traitees par l'OPID par rapport aux
zones non traitees,(c) diminution des taux de mortalite : diminution de 88% en 10 ans dans la province de Fianarantsoa
(0,33% en 1998 contre 2,85% en 1988) et de 93% dans la province d'Antananarivo (0,36% en 1998 contre 5,07% en
1988) . (3) A partir de 1997, le PMII a ete installe dans 12 SSD (contre 5 au depart) mais n'a pas encore connu jusqu'A
present un developpement satisfaisant, il reste encore A faire a partir de I'an 2000.
- 31 -



Programme : Lutte contre la Tuberculose
I. Activites Realisees
Pour l 'amelioration du Dc et de la PEC des cas, I 'appui du projet consistait a: (1) 1' Elaboration /production / diffusion
des documents de la strategie Nationale de lutte contre la Tuberculose: manuel guiide du Programme National
Tuberculose (1996), manuel de Formation, ainsi que des outils de gestion du Programme: fiches personnelles et fiches de
suivi, (2) la Formation de 394 Agents de Santd en gestion tuberculose (gestion du programme, PEC et suivi des Malades),
(3) Renforcement du reseau de laboratoire par la fornation de 394 laborantins, la rdhabilitation des laboratoires de 13
centres de diagnostic et de traitement (CDT), (4) la Rehabilitation de 2 pavillons des tuberculeux A Fort Dauphin, (5)
soutenir la supervision des CDT avec une methode standardis6e (Fiche et note technique en main). 80% des CDT
(155/194) au moins ont etd visites 2 fois par an, (6) I'achat d'un camion 3,5 tonnes pour repartir les mddicaments et les
materiels et reactifs de laboratoire, (7) Par ailleurs, le projet a soutenu la participation de 2 medecins a la conference
Internationale sur les maladies Tuberculeuses.
Pour ce qui est des Activites IEC, il y a eu : (1) Conc eption/Elaboration/Production de supports IEC: affiches et
depliants, (2) Celebration de Journde Nationale de sensibilisation avec conferences, tables rondes, emissions
radio-televisees.
ILMobilisation des Ressources
Le Programme a mobilisd environ I millions USD dii Crddit, avec une legere augmentation par rapport a ce qui etait
prevu du depart (0,94 millions USD)
III. Bilan et ImDacts
(1) 11 y a eu augmnentation de la couverture gdographique du Programme: 93% des SSD (103/111) disposent de CDT
fonctionnels en 1999 (contre 70% en 1994), (2) Si l'on adopte I'hypothese de l'OMS et l'UCTMR pour le taux de
depistage A 60-100 cas TPM+ pour 100.000 Habitants, l'objectif de 65% a ete largement atteint, il a meme evolue
positivement de 66% en 1994 vers 75% en 1998, (3) mais l'objectif sur le taux de guerison a 85% des nouveaux detectes
n'est pas encore atteint : de 61% en 1994, le taux n'a atteint que 67% en 1998.
Programme: Lutte contre la Peste
l. Activitis Reafisees
Pour l'amelioration du Dc et de la PEC des cas, le service a ete appuye par le projet dans : (1) I'dlaboration et la
reproduction de la Politique Nationale de Lutte contre la Peste (1.200 exemplaires), du Guide Technique de la PEC des
cas (1.000 exemplaires) des Modules de Formation (1.000 exemplaires) (2) les formations relatives a la PEC des cas pour
168 Medecins publics (Medecins Inspecteurs et Medecins soignants), 20 Medecins privds et 61 paramedicaux, (3) le
renforcement des capacites Diagnostiques de Laboratoire a travers l'achat de rdactifs et de consommables de laboratoire
ainsi que des milieux de prelevement des pus buboniques et des crachats et son transport (Cary Blair), avec l'appui
technique de l'Institut Pasteur de Madagascar (4) la mise A la disposition de medicaments et dte consommables medicaux
dans les SSD a foyers pesteux (le programme n'a jamais connu de rupture de stock), ainsi que des materiels et
equipements pour le prelevement et le traitement pour les Centres de Sante (288 Centres de Sante equipds en 1999), (5)
les interventions d'urgence en cas d'dpidemie au niveau des districts sanitaires par le financement des interventions, l'
achat de 108 motocyclettes, d'dquipements et materiels de protection pour les Agents d'intervention, (6) la rdhabilitation
du Centre Hospitalier Anti-Pesteux d'Antananarivo-Anmbohimiandra (CHAPAA), (7) Par ailleurs le projet a dote 2 SSD
en Radio BLU.
Dans le cadre de la Lutte anti-vectorielle, (1) le projet a procede a l'Achat d'insecticides (75 tonnes de Deltametrine et 30
tonnes de Propoxur) pour assurer des aspersions sdlectives autour des cas declares suspects de peste, et (2) a appuye les
operations de deratisation par l'achat de nasses et d' incindrateurs.
Bon nombre d'activites de Surveillance Epidemiologique et de Recherche Operationnelle ont etd realisees par
1'entremise de l'Institut Pasteur de Madagascar(1PMA,, pour mieux cerner 1'endemie pesteuse: (1) I' elaboration d'un
Protocole de surveillance des dpizooties, (2) 1'etude de la dynamique des reservoirs et de taux d'infection des puces, (3) la
surveillance de la sensibilite des puces aux insecticides, (4) la surveillance de la sensibilite des germes (Yersinia Pestis)
aux antibiotiques, (5) I'evaluation de l'efficacite du traitement chez l'Homme.
Dans le cadre des Activites IEC, le projet s 'est charge d'appuyer : (1) la cel6bration annuelle d'un journee Nationale de
- 32 -



Lutte pour la mobilisation des communautds aux activites de pr6vention et de ddpistage precoce de la maladie, 46 comites
locaux de surveillance Peste ont ete mis en place(2) achat de magnetoscope et d'un poste tdldviseur, (3) Production,
impression et diffusion de supports IEC sous forme d'Affiches et de depliants, (4) emission de spots radios et tdldvises.
II.Mobilisation des Ressources
Les ressources mobilisdes par le CRESAN pour la lutte contre la peste sont estimdes a 1.986.395 USD, dont 285.978 USD
ont ete allouds a l'IPM pour le developpement des activitds de Laboratoire.
III. Bilan et Impacts
Le bilan a e  positif dans la capacite de PEC des cas si on se refere au taux d'exdcution des prelevements effectues par les
Centres de Sante et de leur envoi a l'IPM pour confirmation (87,8% en 1999). Toutefois, l'impact des activites sur
1'evolution du taux de letalitd est encore faible: de 20,5% en 1996 ce taux ne s'est abaissd qu'i 18% en 1999. Cela est dfi a
la persistance des formes pulmonaires et au retard dans la declaration des cas dans certaines zones. Une mobilisation
communautaire plus entreprenante avec accroissement plus significatif du nombre de comite locaux de lutte et des actions
multi-sectorielles permanentes axees sur l'hygibne et l'assainissement, auraient plus d'impact sur les rdsultats du
Programme.
Programme: Lutte contre la Bilharziose
Ce Programme, decide en 1998 par le Ministbre de la Santd et l'IPM, a etd limite a la Bilharziose intestinale et propose a
etre finance par le CRESAN. L'objectif est d'empecher l'apparition de complications hepatiques dans les zones
hyperendemiques.
La strategie consiste a l'identification rapide des villages hyperenddmiques par la mdthode de sondage Lot Quality
Assurance Sampling (LQAS) qui ne repose que sur l'examen de selles de 16 6elves du village, et l'application periodique
d'un traitement de masse par le Praziquantel pour la population de ces villages.
I. Activites Realisees
(1) 37 Districts Sanitaires ont etd touch6s par le Programme et 138 personnels fonnds, (2) 29 SSD ont commence a mettre
en ceuvre le Programme, et parmi 270 villages concemrs par le sondage, 133 ont et6 identifies hyperenddmiques.
L'objectif du traitement de masse ete atteint a 82% en 1999: 30.394 personnes traitdes sur 36.937attendues, la
contribution du CRESAN consistait surtout au financement de (3) la formation des agents, (4) I'achat des equipements et
de mddicaments (Praziquantel), ainsi qu'a (5) la mise en oeuvre du Programme : sondage, traitement de masse et
supervision des activites. Les autres bailleurs ont plut6t centre leur appui aux activites de recherche.
II.Mobilisation des ressources
773.659 USD environ ont ete mobilisds sur le fonds IDA pour la mise en euvre de ce Programme .
III. Bilan et Impacts
II est encore trop t6t pour avancer des impacts chiffres, mais la continuitK des activitd est souhaitde.
- 33 -



Programme: Lutte contre les IST/SIDA
I. Activites Realisees
Pour 1' amelioration du Dc et de la PEC des cas, le projet a realise : (1) I'appui a la rdactualisation et A la diffusion des
documents de la Politique Nationale de Lutte contre les IST/SIDA, dont: le guide de PEC et des Algorithmes, le
document de PEC psychosociale et Medicale des personnes infectees par le VIH ; (2) le Renforcement de la competence
du Personnel soignant A tous les niveaux : formation a la PEC des IST selon I'approche syndromique pour: 3 formateurs
par SSD, 900 prestataires de service (Medecin et paramedicaux) dans les CSB urbains A haute prevalence pour les IST, 50
Medecins prive ; (3) I'appui A la securisation transfusionnelle: les tests rapides VIH et RPR (pour la syphilis) ont dte
disponibilises ; (4) le renforcement de la capacitd de Dc de laboratoire et (5) I'appui a la mise en place du centre depistage
anonyme du VIH A Antananarivo par l'achat d'equipements, de reactifs et de consommables de laboratoire.
Pour les Activites IEC, le projet a contribue a: (1) l Organisation d'une journees nationale de sensibilisation sur les
methodes de prevention des IST/SIDA le 1 er Decembre de chaque ann6e, dans les 6 Chefs lieux de province et dans 16
SSD A forte prevalence d'IST; (2) 1'elaboration et diffusion des messages IEC : Spots televises et dmissions dans les
radios de proximite ; (3) le renouvellement des supports IEC A partir de 1998 : 4 types d'affiches et I type de depliant ont
et produits et mis a la disposition des prestataires ; Le Programme a applique une approche multisectorielle dans la
promotion du comportement sexuel A moindre risque: implication de 7 departements ministdriels, de 6 ONG, engagement
des leaders religieux (colloque SIDA et religion).
II.Mobilisation des ressources
L'appui du CRESAN au PNLS est estime A 1,11 millions de USD, ce qui represente 3,5% du montant total du Credit.
III. Bilan et Impacts
(1) 11 y a eu augmentation de 40% du taux de frequentation des Centres de Sante pour traitement des IST de 1997 en
1998, due probablement A la diminution du cofit des prestations : cofit d'examen de laboratoire reduit a zdro suite a 1'
application de l'approche syndromique, A la generalisation de la PEC et A l'accessibilite financibre des medicaments grace
a la PFU; (2)la securite transfusionnelle est assuree A 100% ldans les 30 Centres de transfusion existants ; (3) la prevalence
A l'infection au VIH reste faible : 0,07% en 1995 A 0, 14% en 1999, et maintient le pays dans la (( zone A faible prevalence
). Toutefois, 1'evolution du pourcentage de sdropositivite parmi les personnes testees est alarmante : de 0,02% en 1989
elle est A 0,99% en 1999 . (4) Neanmoins, certains indicateurs de comportement de la population montrent une evolution
favorable : (a) 70% des femmes ont une connaissance suffisante sur les modes de transmission et de la prevention du
SIDA, (b) plus de 90% des jeunes connaissent les modes de transmission et de prevention du SIDA, la fidelite A un
partenaire et l'utilisation des preservatifs ont ete les moyens citds, (c) la vente de preservatifs par le reseau
CMS/PROTECTOR a connu une hausse de 223% de 1996 A 1998.
Programme: Surveillance Epidemiologique
Cre6 officiellement en 1993, le projet CRESAN n'a que tres peu appuyd ce Programme jusqu'a 1995. Ce n'est qu'A partir
de 1997 que le CRESAN a contribue de maniere concrete au financement de ce Programme.
I. Activites Realisees
L'appui a ete-concret dans (1) 1'op6rationnalisation des 12 stations sentinelles dont : (a) la rehabilitation de 5 stations
sentinelles (b) I'achat d'equipements techniques et matdriels de laboratoire (c) I'achat de 2 voitures 4x4 et le financement
des supervisions: objectif de supervision des SSD et des CSB atteint A 75% , (2) l'Op*rationnalisation du systeme
d'Alerte au niveau national avec la production et la diffusion d'un guide technique pour toutes les Formations Sanitaires
(53.180 fiches diff&uses), la mise en place de Radio BLU dans 18 SSD enclaves par le Ministere a encore facilite la
celerite des communications d'alerte ; (3) le renforcement du Service Central par l'achat d'ordinateur et imprimante.
II.Mobilisation des ressources
La Banque Mondiale, par l'intermddiaire de l'UGP, a mobilise 170.000 USD, ce qui a represente environ 32% de
l'ensemble de financement du programme de 1997 A :1999.
- 34 -



III. Bilan et Impacts
La mise en place et la fonctionnalisation d'un systeme d'alerte standardise des epiddmies dans les 111 Districts Sanitaires
du pays, depuis 3 annees surtout, a rendu possible la detection precoce des epidemies, une celerite dans les investigations
et les interventions, conduisant a une maitrise rapide des epid6mies et d'une reduction de la morbidite et de la mortalite.
En 1998, 64 alertes de maladies dpidemiques ont ete detectees precocement. En 1999, le ler cas de cholera a ete confirme
au mois de mars A Mahajanga, et le SSE assure le suivi continu de 1'evolution de cette 6pidemie.
3.2. L'amelioration de la disDonibilite et de l'accessibilit6 des medicaments
Programme: Appui a la mise en place d'un Centrale d'Achat en midicaments essentiels et
consommables medicaux
Afm de pallier au grave probleme d'approvisionnement en medicaments et au mauvais fonctionnement de la pharmacie
centrale, le Ministere de la Sante et des partenaires ont pris la decision de creer en 1995 une Centrale d'Achat (CA)
baptise SALAMA qui a pour mission (a) d'acheter les medicaments essentiels sous nom generique et consommables
mediaux et (b) de les vendre A un prix abordable pour la population au niveau des formations sanitaires publiques et
privees a but non lucratif
I. Activites realisees
Le Projet a (1) appuye le demarrage de la CA, en complement de l'apport des autres partenaires du Ministere de la Sante,
par l'octroi du premier fonds de roulement sous forme d'achat de medicaments et consommables medicaux d'un valeur de
1,5 millions de dollars des E.U, mais le Ministere et la Banque ont decide par la suite (2) de continuer de soutenir
SALAMA dans la poursuite de ses objectifs avec le lancement d'un second appel d'offre Ianc6 en 1998.
II. Mobilisation des ressources
Le projet a mobilise en total 2,15 millions de dollars E.U pour la Centrale d'Achat et cela represente environ 6,8% du
total du Credit.
HI. Bilan et impact
SALAMA est ainsi mise en place et fonctionnelle. Elle a pu assurer l'approvisionnement des Formations Sanitaires en
m.dicaments essentiels et consommables m6dicaux, avec un taux de satisfaction a 75%, grace A la ligne budgetaire du
Ministere de la Sante allouee aux Districts Sanitaires et a ses propres recettes aupres des Formations Sanitaires privees a
but non lucratif Mais une recapitalisation d'environ 16 milliards de Fmg, ainsi qu'un developpement plus actif de ses
marches avec le secteur prive a but non lucratif sont necessaires pour permettre a SALAMA de faire face a son probleme
de gestion de la rotation de ses stocks, d'ameliorer le taux de satisfaction de ses clients, et de devenir le moteur de la PFU.
3.3. L'amelioration de la qualite des Services de Sante des Districts et d6velowoement d'un recouvrement des couts
gestion communautaire
Programme: Appui aux Services de Sante des Districts et i un Recouvrement des coats gere par la
Communaute (Participation Financiere des Usagers)
A. Appui au DeveloDpement des Districts de Sante
Le Projet CRESAN prevoyait d'apporter son soutien (1) a concevoir une politique de decentralisation du systeme de santd
axe sur la meme mise en place des districts sanitaires, (2) a elaborer un document de Politique definissant l'organisation
du systeme de santd, l'offre de soins, les normes et standards par niveau, les r6les et fonctions de chaque niveau et leurs
relations fonctionnelles. II a ete cr66 une Cellule Nationale d'Appui aux Districts (CNAD) ainsi q'une Cellule Regionale
d'Appui aux Districts (CeRAD) au niveau de chacune des 6 Regions pour piloter l'execution de cette politique,
notamment pour le suivi de: (a) la mise en ceuvre de la politique de renforcement des Services de Sant6 des Districts et du
Ddveloppement des Recouvrements des CoAts a gestion communautaire, (b) I'elaboration des plans de d6veloppement des
Districts (PDD), (c) du fmancement de 54 PDD eligibles qui comprendra les rehabilitations des Formations Sanitaires
-35 -



[programmdes de facon cohdrente et integree a l'amnlioration de la qualite des soins] , la formation continue du personnel,
les supervisions, I'appui au fonctionnement et l'appui au Bureau de Sante des Districts (BSD) pour les activites de
planification, de formation et de gestion.
A.I. Realisations
(1) Depuis la rdforme du Secteur Santd entreprise par le Ministere en 1997, le SDD a dte transforme en Direction du
Developpement des Districts Sanitaires (DDDS) et les CeRAD intdgrdes aux Directions Inter-Rdgionales de
Ddveloppement Sanitaire (DIRDS), les vdhicules, les dquipements et les matdriels destinds aux CeRAD ont ete dgalement
intdgres aux DIRDS. Du coup, le Programme d'appui au Ddveloppement des Districts Sanitaires et du recouvrement des
cofits A gestion communautaire a ete generalisd. (2) 36 Districts ont etd retenus eligibles au financement CRESAN sur la
base des criteres definis a la revue A mi-parcours, dont notamment la qualite de leurs PDD, mais leurs PTA n'ont pas pu
etre realises. (3) Ils ont etd tout de meme dotes en dquipements informatiques par le Projet ; (4) et un guide d'elaboration
de PDD a dtd dditd a l'intention des Equipes de Management de Districts (EMAD) . (5) 37 CSB et 9 CHD jugds
prioritaires parmi les Formations Sanitaires qui ont fait l'objet d'une etude effectuee par le Cabinet DINIKA en 1995 ou
identifiees pour le volet << degats cycloniques )> ont dtd rehabilites, et un lot d'equipements et de mobiliers achetds en 1995,
ont ete repartis sur 1'ensemble des 111 Districts poUr faire bendficier au plus grand nombre de Centres de Santd. Les
rehabilitations n'ont pas pu ainsi tenir compte des normes et standards en matiere de personnel, d'equipement et d'
infrastructure etablis en 1997, qui ont *td d'ailleurs jugds trop ambitieux, mais tendaient a ramener les Formations
Sanitaires a un niveau minimum de fonctionnalite. Lfn essai d'adaptation de ces normes et standards a etd dtabli en 1998,
mais n'a pas encore ete valide. (6) En 1999, une definition du PMA et un plan type de CSB ont ete etablis avec l'OMS.
(7) Un suivi rapprochd de la fonctionnalitd des CSB et de la qualitd des offres de soins a la population a dtd mene ; ainsi
en 3 ans, de 1997 A 1999, il a eu recrutement de 740 medecins pour un besoin estime a 988 (taux d'exdcution A 75%) et de
190 paramedicaux pour un besoin estimd a 236 (taux de realisation a 80%), ainsi que l'acquisition et la repartition de
1.068 kits d'dquipements pour CSB, dont 38 livrds par CRESAN. Le projet attend encore la livraison de 1.000 kits pour
medecins achetds aupres de l'OMS. Par ailleurs, le MlinistAre de la Sante a confid A la GTZ la composante developpement
des Districts Sanitaires dans la province de Majunga. l'appui y a ete centre sur les Districts Sanitaires et (8) 42 CSB ont
&t6 rdhabilitds. Par ailleurs, dans le cadre des Soins de SantA Primaire, le projet a appuyd le Programme Elargi de
Vaccination, notamment par (9) I'achat de 242 r6frigerateurs.
A.II Bilan et impacts
Le bilan a ete positif dans la mesure qu'il y a eu (1) amelioration du fonctionnement du systeme de santd de district, avec
renforcement de la capacitd gestionnaire des EMAD, mais egalement (2) qu'il y a eu amelioration de l'offre de soins A la
population qui se traduit par la disponibilite et l'accessibilite d'un paquet minimum de services de santd , comprenant les
midicaments.
B. ADpui au Recouvrement des cofts I Particination Financiere des Usaaersl et a la Gestion Communautaire
Le Ministere de la Sante a ddveloppe une Politique sur le fmancement et la gestion communautaire au niveau des districts
sanitaires. II en a ete prdvu l'introduction du recouvrcment des cofits sur les mddicaments au ddpart (sauf pour les
anti-tuberculeux, les anti-lepreux, les vaccins du PEN' et les contraceptifs qui beneficient d'une subvention par l'Etat),
pour etre dtendu progressivement aux actes medicaux ensuite. La gestion des recettes et des ddpenses serait a la charge des
comites de gestion organises par les communautes et les prix auraient ete varies d'une Centre de Sante a un autre.
Le Ministere a laissd se developper les systemes deja installds par les partenaires: systeme mutualiste des Phacom
(Cooperation Suisse), systeme de paiement sdpare des mddicaments et des actes (GTZ Mahajanga), systeme du coat des
medicaments majore d'un pourcentage pour le financement d'une partie des frais de fonctionnement des CSB
(FIB-IB/UNICEF). II y a eu une idde d'harmonisatiorn mais qui n'a pas ete concretisee.
B.I R6alisations
En 1997 la DDDS s'inspirait des expdriences des difftrents systemes existants pour concevoir les principes et modalites
du nouveau systeme de recouvrement des couts baptisd Participation Financiere des Usagers (PFU) qui a ete du coup
generalise; il a ete indiqud aux Formations Sanitaires de mettre sur pied un Comitd de Gestion (COGE) issu de la
communautd pour la gestion de la Pharmacie, d'ou l'appellation de Pharmacie a gestion communautaire (Phagecom).
Le projet a contribue au ddveloppement de ce systeme en fman,ant: (1) I'elaboration et la diffusion des textes et
documents relatifs A la PFU: le manuel therapeutique a l'usage des Medecins en 150 exemplaires, les outils de gestion et
- 36 -



ordinogramme des Phagecom, les outils de contr6le, dont le guide de monitorage harmonise des Formations Sanitaires, la
grille de supervision, le catalogue des tarifs pour les CHD, le document intitule < Instructions permanentes sur la PFU ))au
niveau des CSB et aux CHD en 4.000 exemplaires et qui ont dtd traduits en malgache A l'intention des acteurs
communautaires ; (2) la conception des textes ldgislatifs rdgissant le systeme de recouvrement des cofits: I'arr&e
inter-ministeriel portant autorisation du recouvrement des coAts sur les medicaments des Formations Sanitaires publiques,
I'arrete provincial relatif au contr6le de la gestion des Formations Sanitaires, le statut des COGE qui reste encore A valider
; (3) la formation de 10 formateurs des DIRDS (sur 12 attendus) en cogestion (10 formateurs sur 12), (4) la formation de
tous les acteurs de la PFU, (5) l'intensification des informations et des sensibilisations.
La PFU a demarre au niveau des CSB, puis des CHD, avec les medicaments achetes et livres par la Centrale d'Achat
SALAMA sur budget de l'Etat ; les dotations etaient assez suffisantes qu'il n'y pas eu necessite de reapprovisionnement
jusqu'A la fin du ler semestre 1999. La PFU a fait l'objet d'un suivi soutenu au niveau des SSD, dont 2 audits internes en
1999, juste un an apres le demarrage, pour detecter les problemes de mise en muvre, notamment dans la gestion des
medicaments et des fonds gdndres. Un ddficit de 1,4 Milliards de Fmg a ete constate, dui aux vols de medicaments etlou
aux ddtournements de fonds. Des mesures draconiennes, dont la fermeture provisoire des Centres de Sante comme
sonnette d'alarme, suivi de ndgociation pour la restitution ont dtd entreprises pour recouvrer les pertes. Le taux de
restitution a atteint 46,3% en fin 1999.
Les fonds generes ont et6 geles jusqu'A ce que la situation soit clarifiee par la 2eme phase de l'Audit en Juin 1999 ; aussi,
I'autorisation pour l'utilisation de ces fonds generes au reapprovisionnement des CSB et CHD aupres de la Centrale d'
Achat SALAMA ne fut-elle notifiee qu'en septembre 1999.
3.II Bilan et impacts
Les objectifs ont dtd atteints si l'on se rdfere a ce que: (1) des 1998, 100% des CSB appliquent la PFU, et la totalite des
CHD ont suivi en 1999, (2) les recettes generes en 1999 ont passe du simple au double: de 6,4 milliards Fmg en 1998 A
13,8 milliards Fmg en 1999, malgre les quelques bavures constatees dues notamment A l'insuffisance ou au retard de la
prdparation au niveau des procedures de gestion et de la definition des r6les et des responsabilites des diffdrents auteurs,
(3) la PFU a permis une meilleure accessibilite des mddicaments: aucune Formation Sanitaire n'a comnu de periode de
rupture de stock en medicaments essentiels, 86% des ordonnances ont etd satisfaites et la recette moyenne par cas est
evaluee A 2.226 Frng , (4) iA y a augmentation de l'utilisation du systeme de sante par la population: taux d'utilisation des
consultations externes a 41,4% en 1999 contre 30% en 1994, (5) le developpement de la PFU a offert l'occasion
d'impliquer davantage les communautds dans la gestion des services de santd, amenant une concrete prise de
responsabilite.
C. Mobilisation des Ressources
5,9 millions de dollars USD, soit 19,8% du total du Credit, ont et mobilises pour l'appui aux Soins de Sante Primaire, au
developpement des Districts de sante et au developpement du recouvrement des cofits, sur lesquels.1,1 millions ont ete
utilises pour la province de Mahajanga en sous-traitance avec la GTZ.
3.4. Le Renforcement Institutionnel
Programme: Appui i la Gestion (A) et a la Formation continue (B) du Personnel
A. Renforcement de la Gestion des Ressources Humaines [Service du Personnel]
A la suite de la restructuration du projet a la revue a mi-parcours, il a ete convenu que le projet CRESAN apportera son
soutien aux objectifs et strategies suivants: (1) definir et mettre en oeuvre une politique du personnel, (2) mettre ne place
et maitriser un systeme informatisd de gestion du personnel, (3) dlaborer une planification des besoins et un plan de
redeploiement du personnel, ainsi que sa mise en muvre, A commencer par la mise en jour des fichiers individuels, (4)
assurer un appui logistique et l'amenagement des locaux.
- 37 -



A.I. Activites Realisees
(I) Une politique du personnel a dtd elabore des 1996, (2) Le logiciel GESPER, programme et livrd par l'Universitd de
Montrdal, a ete installe au niveau central, mais n'est pas encore opdrationnel, l'informatisation de la gestion du personnel
avec le logiciel n'a pas encore ainsi dte effective, d.u fait de plusieurs contraintes, dont l'acquisition et installation tardive,
en octobre 1999, du reseau informatique comportant 7 ordinateurs au niveau central et 2 ordinateurs par DIRDS, mais au
decours de 1999, des formations recyclages du Personnel en informatique, dont le logiciel GESPER, et en technique d'
archive ont dtd effectuees. Le service espere ainsi rnener a bien cette informatisation en l'an 2000 ; (3) la planification des
besoins et le plan de redeploiement n'ont pas ete d6finis, mais le service a adopte un redeploiement continu base sur des
criteres objectifs indiques dans les regles intemes clu Ministere en matiere de gestion du personnel et sur les Fichiers de
12.393 Agents etablis sur Excel et constamment mis Ajour, pour decongestionner le personnel des zones urbaines au
profit des zones rurales. Par ailleurs, le Ministere de la Sante a accorde aux EMAD la prerogative de muter son personnel
a l'interieur du district ; (4) le Ministere a obtenu une derogation sur le gel d'effectif et a pu recruter, depuis 1995, 79
Mddecins specialistes, 927 Mddecins Gdneralistes, 416 paramddicaux. (5) En outre, le Projet a finance la rehabilitation du
siege du service du Personnel, ce qui a permis une redistribution plus appropriee des locaux, et a contribue au
renforcement du service par l'achat de materiels, de mobiliers de bureau, des equipements de communication et de
diverses fournitures.
A.IL. Bilan et ImPacts
Les objectifs n'ont pas ete pleinement atteints, mais la mise A jour de 100% des dossiers individuels, l'adoption du
redeploiement continu , ainsi que l'obtention de derogation pour le recrutement de personnels ont permis au Ministere de
la Santd d'ameliorer (1) la couverture sanitaire en ayant re-fonctionnalisd 263 formations sanitaires sur les 370 recens6es
non fonctionnelles en 1997, et (2) d'amdliorer l'offre de soins a la population par la mise en place de personnels plus
qualifies, surtout pour les zones rurales en ayant transforme 897 CSB 1 tenus par des pararnmdicaux en CSB 2 qui sont
sous la responsabilite de Mddecins.
B. Formation Continue du Personnel I Service de la Formation et du Perfectionnement du Personnel ]
B.I. Activites Realisees
Afin d'adapter qualitativement et quantitativement ta formnation continue des Agents de Santd aux besoins de sante des
populations et des besoins de ddveloppement des Services de Sante, trois strategies ont ete proposees A la revue A
mi-parcours: (1) elaborer une Politique Nationale de formation, ce qui a etd rdalisde en 1999 avec 6.500 exemplaires
diffusdes, et un Plan Directeur de la formation continue de la formation, ce qui a dte produit des 1998, (2). concevoir 12
modules de formation continue uniforme pour les paramedicaux, pour cela 11 modules ont ete realises en 1999 et, avec I'
appui d'autres bailleurs, un glossaire des termes utilisds en formation continue a ete elabore en 6.500 exemplaires et
diffuses, un opuscule sur les Normes et Procddures de la formation confectionne en 6.500 exemplaires et diffuses, 4
modules de formation pour les equipes de I'EMAD ont ete elabores mais attendent a etre diffuses, (3) former des
formateurs au niveau des regions et des districts (6 par district sanitaire), des noyaux de formateurs ont ete ainsi mis en
place au niveau central, intermediaire (DIRDS) et peripherique (Districts Sanitaires),et ont ete formes de 1997 A 1999
432 formateurs, 5.599 responsables de programme e,t 2.704 prestataires de soins.
D'autres activitds ont ete rendus possibles grace au financement de la Banque Mondiale: (4) 6 sessions de formation a
l'intention de 113 Enseignants et de 52 Encadreurs pour les EEMS, (5) la rehabilitation de l'EEMS de Toamasina, et (6)
le renforcement de la capacitd institutionnelle du SFPP par l'achat d'un vehicule 4x4, du materiel informatique (7
micro-ordinateurs), du matdriel de reprographie.
B.II. Bilan et Impacts
Malgrd les necessites de changements de responsables qui ont quelque peu perturbd le developpement de la formation
continue, on peut dire que l'apport du projet a ete positif- pour le SFPP, dans la mesure ofi le (1) SFPP est en mesure de
donner un appui technique aux divers services et Programmes du Ministere de la Sante, et a pu standardiser les approches
en formation par la formation des formateurs en diaboration de curriculum et la formation en Gestion-Suivi-Evaluation,
(2) 38% des Districts Sanitaires utilisent rdgulierement les modules de fornation continue, (3) les EEMS ont ete
reouvertes en 1999 ; (3) par ailleurs, le Centre de Formation Specialisee en Sante Publique et Communautaire (CFSSPC)
a etd ouvert en Novembre 1998, la formation effectu6e en collaboration avec l'Universite VICTOR SEGALEN de
Bordeaux II.
Recemment, une approche de formation basde sur l'auto-apprentissage en outillant le personnel de documents appropries
- 38 -



et adequats est deja en germe au sein du Ministere.
C. Mobilisation des Ressources
850.000 USD environ ont etd mobilises par le CRESAN pour ce Programme, ce qui a represente A peu pres 2,8% du total
du Credit.
Programme : Mise en Place d'un Systeme d'Information Sanitaire pour la Gestion (SISG)
En 1992, le Systeme d' informations du Ministere de la Sante etait presque inexistant au niveau National. Ainsi, en 1996
I'ancien Service des Statistiques Sanitaires et Demographique (SSSD) a ete remplace par le SISG. L'objectif a ete de
concevoir et de mettre en place un systeme d'information sanitaire national informatise et adapte aux besoins de
planification et de gestion a tous les niveaux du systeme de santd.
I. Activites Realisees
L'appui ciblait au ddpart (1) I'etude du fonctionnement du systeme d'information existant et de 1'etablissement des
indicateurs de sante ; ensuite, apres la conception des supports du SIG avec les partenaires techniques du Minsan, le projet
a aide a: (2) la production et la diffusion des supports de recueil de donnees et des manuels de procedure A toutes les
Formations Sanitaires; (3) I'achat de mat6riels informatiques: 8 ordinateurs pour le niveau central, 2 ordinateurs par
region (DIRDS) et un ordinateur de chaque pour 36 SSD, (4) I'achat de materiels de reproduction: un duplicopieur, une
presse chauffante et une agrapheuse GM par r6gion, machine a relier, Massicot. .. (5) I'Achat d'equipements didactiques:
Flip-chart, retroprojecteurs... (6) la formation des Agents de sante sur l'utilisation des nouveaux supports, la collecte et la
publication des donnees: 1.852 Agents ont ete formes, dont 3 responsables SIG par r6gion et 3 responsables SIG par SSD
; (7) I'appui au fonctionnement du SISG et A la supervision des 6 DIRDS et des SSD : achat d'un vehicule 4x4, de
materiels et de foumitures de bureau.
II.Mobilisation des ressources
L' appui au SISG a mobilise environ 300.000 USD sur Credit CRESAN, soit environ 1% du total du Credit.
III. Bilan et Impacts
(1) Le systeme est maintenant informatise au niveau central et regional, et (2) plus de 35 indicateurs essentiels peuvent
etre calcules au niveau SSD et DIRDS aux fins de prise de decision ; (3) une Commission Nationale de l'Infornation
Sanitaire (CNIS) est constitude et va publier le ler Annuaire National de Statistiques Sanitaires, (4) Apres une annee d'
installation, le Systeme peut donner quelques rdsultats pour 1998-1999 (a) taux de couverture des Rapports Mensuels des
CSB = 86,5% des CHD = 86,62% des CHU, CHR = 63,89% (b) taux de couverture des Rapports Mensuels de synthese
des Districts (RMSD) = 99% ; (c) taux d'utilisation des services par la population: taux de frequentation des
consultations extemes au niveau des CSB = 41,4%, Taux de frdquentation des services CPN des CSB := 60% Taux de
frequentation des Maternit6s des CSB : 25,3%. (5) le niveau Regional est actuellement en mesure de produire les supports
necessaires A la perennisation du systeme d'information.
- 39 -



Programme: Appui au Service Central IEC
I. Activites Realisees
Devant le Problme de coordination des activites IEC' rdalisees par de nombreux programmes verticaux du Ministere de la
Sante, le projet CRESAN devait apporter son appui aU service central IEC afin qu'il puisse (a) planifier, coordonner,
superviser les activites LEC du Ministere de la Sante, (b) concevoir et superviser les dtudes et la production de materiels
IEC, (c) mener des activites de recherche pour le developpement des strategies de communication et d'dlaboration de
messages. L'Assistance Technique Internationale en IEC n'ayant pas contribue au deblocage de la situation denonce a la
revue a mi-parcours, une restructuration du service central IEC a dte entreprise, et le projet a, en outre, appuyd
fmancierement: (1) la revision des curricula de formation en IEC a l'usage des responsables IEC DIRDS, (2) 1'
elaboration des curricula de formation des journalistws sur la Politique National de Sante, du personnel naviguant
commercial de la societe Air Madagascar en secourisme et IEC, (3) I'dlaboration du curriculum de formation en
mobilisation sociale et participation communautaire en usage au CFSSPC de Befelatanana, (4) la conduite de plusieurs
formations : (a) la formation de 16 Agents du niveau central et regional en planification et gestion des programmes IEC,
(b) la formation des 111 Responsables IEC des districts sanitaires (100%) en 1996 et la supervision formative de 102
(92%) de ces Responsables en 1997, en collaboration avec les responsables IEC du niveau regional ; (5) un stage a I'
etranger pour 2 personnels ; (6) 1'elaboration des themes de messages IEC et la production de supports IEC: 42 themes
concus de 1997 a 1999, 31 types de supports IEC cornfectionnes, 22 reportages audio et 63 reportages viddo rdalisds en 3
ans (de 1997 a 1999) ; (7) I'ddition reguliere de la Revue d'information GAZETINTSIKA (2.145 exemplaires en 1997,
3.000 exemplaires en 1998 et 5.000 exemplaires en 1999) ; (8) Par ailleurs, le projet a largement contribue au
renforcement du service central IEC par la renovation des locaux du service, la dotation en voiture 4x4, l'achat d'
quipements de bureau, d'equipements informatiques et d'equipements audio-visuels.
II.Cofuts
Le projet a decaisse environ 190.000 USD sur le credit pour l'appui au programme IEC, a qui represente environ 0,7% du
total du Credit.
-1. Bilan et Impacts
Le projet a ainsi atteint son objectif relatif a l'amelioration de la capacitd du service a coordonner et superviser les
activites IEC du Ministere de la Sante. On peut dire que le bilan est positif, dans la mesure que: (1) le reseau
TASK-FORCE, compose des responsables IEC des di fferentes directions, services et partenaires nationaux et
intemationaux a volet IEC/sante IEC a ete mis en place, (2) les structures ILEC aux diffdrents niveaux (les diffdrents
programmes du niveau central, des niveaux regionaux et des districts) sont fonctionnels et de plus en plus performants
dans les echanges d'information, la communication avec les communautes, notamment les Autorites locales, les leaders
communautaires et les notables, ainsi que dans la collaboration avec les medias pour l'animation communautaire, (4) une
perception positive de la Politique Nationale de Santd et une meilleure appreciation du systeme de sante ont e  chez la
population, (5) la mise en place extremement rapide des Pharmacies a gestion communautaire (Phagecom) dans toutes les
Formations Sanitaires confirme l'adh&sion de la popu:.ation aux processus de reforme du secteur.
4. BILAN GENERAL ET LECONS TIREES
4.1. Bilan eeneral
Nous pouvons dire que le bilan general a ete positif si l'on se rdfere aux objectifs specifiques qui ont e  realisds quoiqu'a
des divers degres par chaque composante et aux impacts non negligeables sur la sante de la population des activites
effectues, notamment dans les 3 dernieres annees de IE vie du projet. La Politique Nationale de Santd definie en 1996 et
reedit&e en 1999, et le Plan Directeur 1999-2000 ont bien trace les strategies de la rdforme du secteur et ont facilitd I'
execution du projet. Le taux de mortalite chez les 0 a 4 ans par exemple, a connu une tendance a la diminution: 159%o en
1997 contre 163%o en 1992.
4.2. Gestion du Proiet et performance de l'UGP
-40 -



4.2.1.L'esprit du projet a e  garde tout au long de son execution et les 3 Coordonnateurs nationaux successifs ont apporte
respectivement leurs experiences propres dans la gestion du projet qui a et ainsi executee de facon acceptable. Les
Audits ont ete effectues annuellement, les recommandations y afferentes ont ete considerdes et servaient de guide
pour l'amelioration de l'execution.
4.2.2.Le niveau de decaissement actuel est de l'ordre de 97,5%. La justification du compte special a e  etablie
conformnment aux Directives de la Banque Mondiale. Des Lettres de Credit ont ete etablies et des demandes de
paiement direct ont re9u l'approbation de l'IDA.
4.2.3.Les procedures de passation des marches de la Banque Mondiale ont ete respectees et les dossiers types de la Banque
utilises pour l'exbcution des travaux et l'acquisition des biens et services, il n'y avait pas eu de difficulte dans 1'
adaptation de ces procedures aux formalites reglementaires nationales. L'approbation de la Banque et celle de la
Commission Centrale des Marches ont toujours etd sollicitees pour valider les Dossiers d'Appel d'Offres et 1'
evaluation des offres.
4.2.4.Les immobilisations acquises ont et verifiees conformes aux specifications demandees, enregistrees et codifi6es
(apposition de plaques d'identification) et livr6es aux Formations Sanitaires et aux differents services et Directions
beneficiaires du projet.
4.3. Contraintes et Lecons tir6es
Malgrd les resultats positifs du projet, certains points de faiblesse dans la gestion n'ont pu etrejugul6s que vers la fin de la
periode du cycle , sinon demandent a etre ameliores A l'avenir : (1) des retards ont ete constates dans 1'execution des
procedures de passation des marches, un suivi plus rigoureux et methodique des dossiers avec respect des plans de
passation des marches bien structures serait necessaire ; (2) la structure du contr6le inteme devrait 8tre amelioree pour
,viter les retards constates dans la justification des avances allouees aux composantes du projet (CeRAD en 1996-1997, et
quelques composantes en 1998-1999); (3) une amelioration doit etre apportee dans la gestion des immobilisations,
notamment dans le suivi des stocks (Affaire de la perte de 164 balles de moustiquaires) et des mouvements des materiels
et des equipements: l'UGP a du deployer beaucoup d'effort et de temps pour verifier et justifier les ecarts de 3,6 milliards
de Fmg constates lors de l'inventaire physique de 1998, qui a ete tout de meme ramene A 87,5 millions de Fmg, et de
conclure la necessite d'une rigueur dans la production et le classement des documents de compte matiere, (4) une
meilleure coordination avec les directions et services du Minsan devait ere 6tablie a l'avenir afin de garder constamment
la vision d'une dimension developpement sanitaire dans l'execution du projet, et de porter ainsi une amelioration dans son
execution A travers 1'examen minutieux des plans de travail annuels des composantes, le suivi de leurs activites et
1'evolution des indicateurs y afferents A partir des rapports effectues annuellement ; (5) tout cela A travers un Manuel d'
Execution du Projet (qui n'a pas existe de facon formelle) bien ficele et rigoureusement applique.
4.4. ADPUi de la Banque mondiale dans la realisation du Pro iet
L'appui de la Banque mondiale, a travers les missions de supervision effectuees pendant la phase d'operationnelle du
projet, a ete appreciable et a largement eclaire l'ex6cution du projet. L'assistance technique a ete fournie a chacune des
composantes, toutefois un suivi un peu plus rapproche de la performance des consultants aurait et mieux apprecie.
L'ouverture d'esprit du personnel de la Banque jumele a la meilleure structuration des strategies de la reforme du secteur
de la sante ont constitue les facteurs essentiels a la realisation des resultats positifs du projet durant les 3 demieres annees.
5. PERSPECTIVES
Un nouveau Credit a ete conclu entre le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque et la Rdpublique de Madagascar le 03
Fevrier 2000, pour la periode de 2000 a 2006; les lecons tirdes et l'experience du premier projet seront capitalisees et
constitueront des bases solides pour son execution. Il doit apporter une consolidation des acquis dans la refonne du
secteur, au benefice de la population.
-41 -






IBRD 20035R1
,  A tsirarfana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                             i'+
_    PaOvd trowis                                                                   
'fPavtors gowvdrones                                                                         f)   ]     -      h
E        Roafrrts                                                                f   Q  J h/vf o
-~  tttfvves trfvtsxrs                                     hg 'gflv    '<o ANTSIRANA
Aifroport'                                                                                        AI   Scrt9
m  Nati-tno  apitof                                                            
W  Cepi ehs dl,Ftorat                                                                              mw3olooo  ~
0  Fohrlroh) ccpitrxsASQOF                                                                  /  ^        \-n,F        
__F-itr;to bo00ndorias........ ,   rfK__E rAtaXlT
tIrreeses Gtw5 ForittWrly                f    g      fJ  ~~~~~~+'Befandriono:a     
_ _ Ints'nethrnot fxwuodoriras                               /                  !9 X
I im'tes dts etots                     arj,na                 f                                           fr Mon'T
IG'          f                        _                           $,,   \S9A\On8,I8,OrO \l    ,+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-
yo51t    m{t    ,                        i l~~~~~~~~~~or
J   oJ  M A H    A  J        GA.6..                             i      f          2
-eoo   Pr MAHAJoon NGA4srhnoo {rA A1N25VIA                                                                  ,
X  vi4 t W ~~~~~~~~~~~d...e. 4                              W                       iOzdoaimw   1X 
M-1-6.aC   odd                                ;       m          br in a 
Mb;.i                                          ooiodroo< fifo-n:                              4gYor-onr 
   .  oelokTsiribih,            )              tsihW    nbotolXspy r                         Tno"sina
,  +    T    9-0  e   Ys                  ... _.in.
^,    \  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~' 6 Finarn, o                                           S t4
t    2         ~~~OAnk-zob.        FIANARNTO                 _ 
E  v   2            ,                     X  sMonchro                           5~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 To  10    7&0
OBehoky-Sud   f/    T   >       AtsMe dn                            . ,sTANZANIA                INOIANPA
mtrwtios orarorty  \AmoBhti.ky -                                  At-Z.ABE    O                                             wAtnonrv 
torirs~~~~~~~~~~Bkl rJ on40%tr.           K~Aeoonb.    
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~DCME ZAMBIA



