Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2251 MAG
                   Development Credit Agreement
                (Health Sector Improvement Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 12, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2251 MAG
                                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated April
29, 1991, its program of policies and objectives designed to improve
the efficiency of the health sector (the Health Sector Policy) and
prepared a five year program of actions in support of the health
sector (Health Sector Program) of an estimated cost equivalent to
about $100 million;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association,  dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (b)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee to be
maintained pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "PMU" means the Borrower's Projects Monitoring Unit, to
be maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (d)   "DLMT" means the Directorate of Communicable Disease
Control within MOH;
      (e)   "DMP" means the Directorate for Preventive Medicine
within MOH;
      (f)   "DEPP" means the Directorate of Studies, Planning and
Programming within MOH;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated December 15, 1989, December
28, 1989, May 2, 1991 and May 7, 1991 between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "MCH" means maternal and child health;
      (j)   "FP" means family planning; and
      (k)   "PHC" means Primary Health Care.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services as identified in annual work programs
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
The purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2011 shall be one percent (l%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
Page  4
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of making
available its contribution, open and maintain a separate account,
make an initial contribution of the equivalent of $100,000 into such
account and replenish such account up to the amount of the initial
contribution on a monthly basis.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
Page  5
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit AgreeMent
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established PSC within MOH;
      (b)   the Borrower has appointed (i) an administrative officer
within PMU, with the specific task of Project administration, whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) a physician, two midwives and one public information specialist
within the family planning unit of DMP; and (iii) a training
coordinator for each province;
      (c)   the Borrower has submitted an annual work program for
1992, acceptable to the Association; and
      (d)   the Borrower has made an initial deposit of the
equivalent of $100,000 into the account referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  6
            Ministere des Finances et du Budget
            B.P. 61
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                   224 89-MG
                  Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                  By /s/ Pierrot J. Rajaonarivelo
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(l) Civil works                2,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Equipment,                 4,500,000        100%
    material, and
    vehicles
Page  7
(3) Consultants'               2,700,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training
4)  Drugs, medical             4,000,000        100%
    supplies, and
    insecticides under
    Parts A, B and C.l
    of the Project
(5) Drugs under Part C.3       1,600,000        100%
    of the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Incremental                                 85% of local
    operating costs            2,800,000        expenditures
(7) Refunding of               1,110,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                3,490,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                22,900,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating cost" means expenditures
relating to the maintenance and operation of vehicles and equipment,
training and travel allowances.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
      (b)   payment made, or to be made, for expenditures under
Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
unless the Borrower has introduced a cost recovery mechanism for the
distribution of essential drugs prescribed by health agents
authorized by MOH, satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower in
the execution of the Health Sector Program in order to reduce
mortality, morbidity and fertility levels, increase the efficiency
of public health service delivery on the primary, intermediate and
national levels and improve the responsiveness of the health sector
policy framework to the needs and conditions prevailing in
Madagascar.
Page  8
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Communicable Disease Control Program
1.    Rehabilitation of DLMT facilities, including the specialized
disease control laboratories, to standards required for the
improvement of their performance.
2.    Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies required for
disease control programs, including vector control campaigns,
monitoring the disease vectors and supervision of field activities.
3.    Studies on control methodologies, disease patterns and
vectors, including program evaluations and applied research, in
order to adapt the strategy and the design of the control programs
for greater efficiency and effectiveness.
4.    Training of DLMT staff and MOH personnel of referral health
facilities in specialized diagnostic and treatment techniques, and
of village agents for malaria diagnosis, treatment and referrals and
cost recovery.
5.    Public information activities, including use of media to
broadcast public health messages.
Part B:     Maternal and Child Health Care and Family Planning
            Programs
1.    Rehabilitation or upgrading of about 115 health facilities to
minimum standards for the delivery of adequate primary health care
services, including family planning and attended child deliveries
and, in the case of about 20 of such facilities, to standards which
shall, also, allow them to serve as training centers in family
planning matters for MOH staff.
2.    Provision of equipment, contraceptives and supplies for about
550 MOH health facilities in which family planning services are to
be undertaken or upgraded.
3.    Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies for the family
planning unit of DMP, including equipment for public information
activities, in order to monitor, supervise and evaluate imple-
mentation of the family planning program and to adapt program design
and scope.
4.    Studies on: (i) direct and indirect determinants of fertility
and reproductive behaviors; (ii) acceptability and effectiveness of
family planning methods and delivery systems; and (iii) infant,
child and maternal mortality rates for program evaluation.
5.    Development, testing and provision of training materials in
family planning for MOH personnel and for training of trainers;
training of medical practitioners and paramedics in family planning
techniques; training of DMP staff in specialized family planning and
public information techniques.
6.    Public information activities, including use of media to
broadcast MCH and FP messages.
Part C:     Primary Health Care Program
1.    Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies for carrying out
the minimum package of primary health care activities, including
immunizations and diarrheal disease control, respiratory infections,
pre-, peri- and post-natal health care, health education and
nutritional monitoring activities.
2.    Rehabilitation of facilities and provision of vehicles,
equipment and supplies necessary for the improvement of the referral
activities of the intermediate and national medical referral
Page  9
centers.
3.    Provision of an initial stock of essential drugs to be offered
for sale through MOH as part of the treatment prescribed by the
health agents authorized by MOH.
Part D:     Institutional Development of Health District Management
            and of MOH Planning and Programming Capabilities
1.    Provision of vehicles, equipment and supplies to strengthen
MOH and in particular DEPP's capacity, to supervise and evaluate a
revised system of managing health care delivery based on the health
district concept. I
2.    Training and operational support of central, provincial and
district MOH officers to provide staff in MOH's PHC facilities basic
training and regular in-service training programs.
3.    Studies to develop proposals and evaluate projects/programs
relating to the major sectoral issues, including studies on or for:
(i) cost and financing of health services, (ii) cost recovery
mechanisms, (iii) the national pharmaceutical policy, (iv) hospital
management and rehabilitation, (v) strengthening the role of
providers other than MOH, including placement of health profes-
sionals, and (vi) adaptation of health manpower training programs.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for supply of drugs required under the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines and
drugs will be specified in the bidding documents under the
international non-proprietary name.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
l.    Contracts for civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less, up to an aggregate of the equivalent of $1.2
million, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three local
contractors in conformity with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Contracts for furniture and equipment and other items that
cannot be grouped in larger packages estimated to cost the
Page  10
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by the
Borrower estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, as
well as items or groups of items, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equi-
valent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three local or international suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
l.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part (A) (2) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and with respect to each
contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management. Coordination and Supervision
Page  11
1.    The General Director of Health within MOH will be responsible
for overall coordination and supervision of Project activities.
2.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
the Projects Monitoring Unit (PMU) with adequate staff and to be
headed at all times by an administrative officer whose qualifi-
cations and experience are satisfactory to the Association.
3.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
the Project Steering Committee (PSC) for the purpose of assisting
the General Director of Health in the supervision of Project
activities, and to recommend, if needed, actions to resolve issues
and improve performance under the Project.
4.    The PSC shall include the Secretary General of MOH, the
General Director of Health, Inspector General of MOH, the directors
of the departments of MOH, and at least two chiefs of provincial
services of MOH.
5.    The General Director of Health within MOH will be in charge of
the secretariate of PSC.
Annual Work Program
6.    During each year of execution of the Project the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare an annual work program, which shall be
consistent with Health Sector Policy, in order to include:
            (i)   all the activities to be carried out for the
                  execution of the Health Sector Program during the
                  following year and a budget therefor;
            (ii)  all the activities to be carried out under the
                  Project, a detailed list of items to be financed
                  under the Credit during the following year and a
                  budget therefor;
            (iii) training work programs with training schedules by
                  province, all training activities to be
                  undertaken by the central training unit within
                  MOH and the six provincial core training teams;
            (iv)  evidence that the facilities proposed to obtain
                  equipment under Part B of the Project have been
                  previously rehabilitated to minimum operating
                  standards;
            (v)   a detailed financing plan for the activities
                  referred to under sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii)
                  above; and.
            (vi)  a report on the implementation of last year's
                  annual work programs which shall include a
                  detailed report on the implementation of the
                  institutional reform program with a critical
                  assessment of the measures taken and a proposal
                  for adjustment of any such measures, if needed;
      (b)   arrange a meeting of donors interested in financing
activities in the health sector in Madagascar to review the draft
annual work program for the next year and to finalize the financing
plan therefor;
      (c)   submit to the Association the final annual work program
for the next year and shall be in such scope and in such detail as
shall be satisfactory to the Association not later than September 30
of each year; and
      (d)   present a public expenditure program for the health
Page  12
sector for the next following year, satisfactory to the Association
not later than September 30 of each year; any such program to
provide for a minimum of FMG 1.5 million per health district to
provide for maintenance of facilities, including those upgraded for
the delivery of MCH/FP services.
Mid-term Review
7.    By June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   undertake a mid-term review of the Project execution,
including:
            (i)   an assessment as to whether the strategies being
                  followed are producing the expected results,
            (ii)  a proposal for the pharmaceutical policy of the
                  Borrower, and
            (iii) the development of the non-public  sector
                  activities in the health sector;
      (b)   furnish the Association a report on such mid-term
review;
      (c)   exchange views with the Association on such report; and
      (d)   take all necessary measures to remedy any problem that
has been identified during such mid-term review.
Cost Recovery of Drugs
8.    By March 31, 1992, the Borrower shall present to the
Association for comment a proposal for the introduction of a cost
recovery mechanisms for the distribution of drugs prescribed by
health agents authorized by MOH.
Leprosy and Tuberculosis Technical Committee
9.    By January 31, 1992, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to open the technical committees for tuberculosis and
leprosy to all institutions active in those fields and, thereafter,
to ensure that such technical committees meet regularly.
Provincial Training
10.   By March 31, 1992, the Borrower shall appoint at least three
qualified personnel in each province to form a core training team
responsible for training of health personnel and, thereafter,
maintain such teams.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
l.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (l)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $1
million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
Page  13
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
Page  14
expenditure or in an amount eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
subparagraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
