Report No. PID6222
Project Name                     Colombia-Magdalena Medio Regional...
Development Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sector
Project ID                       COPE46031
Borrower                         Government of Colombia
Implementing Agency              National Planning Department
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Bogota, Colombia
Telephone:       341-9868, 336-1600
Fax:            281-3348
Date PID Prepared                May 28, 1998
Project Appraisal                March 16, 1998
Projected RVP Decision           June 30, 1998
1.  Country and Sector Background.   The proposed project will contribute to
the promotion of peace and development which has been identified by Government
authorities and civil society representatives as Colombia's number one
development priority. The project is one of the first lending operations in
this new area of Bank assistance to Colombia which address the socio-economic
determinants of violence. The multi-sectoral, 10 year program for which the
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is paving the way addresses the following
country issues: the increasing economic and social toll of violence; the
predominance of poverty in rural areas (70w of the population with incomes
below subsistence live in rural areas); poverty and violence in rural areas
are interrelated in complex ways which reflect historical and social roots;
and much remains to be done to transform the important process of
decentralization and citizen participation mandated by the 1991 Constitution
into a reality.
2. Project Objectives. This project is a follow-up to the diagnostic and
participatory planning first phase of the Program for Development and Peace of
the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM) which has been underway for two years under
the Consortium for PDPMM, with financing from the national oil company. The
project development objective of this LIL is to develop the operational
capacity of the Consortium, the citizens network and other partners to work
together towards collectively defined objectives to reduce poverty and
increase peaceful coexistence in the Magdalena Medio Region which includes 29
municipalities located in 4 departments. The two-year LIL would thus
establish a solid basis for the detailed design and implementation of an
ambitious 10 year community-led, multi-sectoral development program which
could be supported by the Bank through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). It
would be part of a phased approach with the LIL supporting the phase of
building operational capacity and testing approaches, followed by an APL to
support two to three subsequent phases in which the scope and size of
investments and emphasis on economic activities would increase in line with
the growing implementation capacity of communities and local authorities, and
the improving security situation which would improve the investment climate.



3. Project Description. The two-year project would have two components:
Component 1. Capacity Building of Program Management. The objective of this
component is to build the capacity of the Consortium and Citizen's Network to
implement the PDPMM.
Sub-Component 1.1 Consortium as Change Agent and Program Manager. The
objective of this sub-component is to develop the Consortium's capacity to
move from a participatory planning mode to an operational mode. To achieve
this, the project would finance the Consortium's activities as change agent
(strategy development; mobilization and technical support to citizen's
network, communities and municipalities), program manager (design and
implementation of new organizational, administrative and financial management
systems; annual financial audit) and learning organization (internal
monitoring, evaluation, and learning system; external evaluation).
Expenditures would be for incremental operating costs of the Consortium
(including full-time staff), consulting services, learning events, and goods.
Sub-Component 1.2 Citizen's Network. The objective of this sub-component is
to strengthen the citizen's network--a voluntary association of citizens and
community organizations which is independent of the Consortium--so that it is
capable of influencing public affairs and implementing development projects
based on local initiatives. The project will fund learning events (workshops,
training, study tours and exchanges within and outside the region),
communications activities such as newsletters, and provide small grants for
the municipal level of the network (nucleo) to carry out work plans.
Component 2. Sub-Projects. The objective of this component is to develop,
test and document approaches which bring together community processes and
resources around specific development initiatives agreed upon by citizens and
authorities of selected municipalities or sub-regions of Magdalena Medio.
Sub-Component 2.1 Technical Assistance for Sub-Project Preparation. Under
this sub-component, technical support will be provided to a community to
develop a specific development initiative or sub-project. The loan will
finance activities such as: technical advice, feasibility and design studies,
building of management capacity, and establishing links with potential
partners and financiers
Sub-Component 2.2 Sub-Projects. The project will finance a proportion of
the costs (services of consultants and NGOs, local operating costs, equipment
and minor civil works) of specific sub-projects. It would have a phased
approach (a "LIL within a LIL"):    financing would begin in strategic areas
such as education, health and environment which are well defined, and new
areas such as economic development-employment generation would be phased in
based on two criteria: the strategy is ready, and the implementation capacity
of the Consortium and communities is judged sufficient to expand the
component's scope. For each strategic area, a specific set of questions and
lessons to be learned will be identified prior to financing any sub-projects,
and subsequently will be monitored and evaluated.
4. Financing. The project would be financed by the IBRD (US$5.0 million)
with counterpart financing provided by the national oil company and the
central government. In addition, communities and local governments will
contribute to financing of the sub-projects.
-2 -



5. Project Implementation. The PDPMM is underway and receiving support from
various sources; the project which fits within the framework of the Program is
to be implemented in two years. The National Planning Department (DNP) has
been designated as the Government agency responsible for the project. The
Consortium CINEP-SEAP (two well-respected, Colombian NGOs which joined
together for the specific purpose of preparing the program) has been
designated as the project's implementing agency. The Consortium's role is
largely that of a facilitator which promotes a process. Inherent in the
participatory and partnership approach adopted by the program is the fact that
the citizen's network, communities, and other partners such as local
authorities, NGOs, central government agencies are the key actors when it
comes to doing things.
6.      In view of the learning nature of the project which requires flexibility
and adaptation as it proceeds, semi-annual operating plans will be a key
implementation mechanism. The plans will serve as a reference point for
agreeing on activities to be undertaken, the budget, disbursement estimates,
and performance indicators. The project will support the establishment and
operation of a monitoring, evaluation and learning system consisting of an
internal system woven into the Consortium's structure and the participatory
process itself, and an external evaluation undertaken at eight-month
intervals.
7. Sustainability. The ownership of the program is broad-based reflecting
its origins (initiative of the Catholic church, national oil company, and oil
workers union) and the participatory process carried out in the first phase
which involved individuals, communities, NGOs, universities, municipal and
departmental authorities, and the private sector. If the LIL successfully
achieves its objectives then it should be sustainable and allow the program to
move to the next phase which will have a much heavier emphasis on investment.
The key risk is that armed groups may not respect the process, but so far this
has been successfully handled.
8. Poverty Category. This project is part of the Program of Targeted
Interventions since the incidence of poverty in the region is estimated to be
high in both absolute and relative terms: 709 of the region's population have
incomes below the poverty line and 53t have Unmet Basic Needs, compared to the
national average of 19t below the poverty line, and the national averages for
rural areas of 31- below the poverty line and 44t with Unmet Basic Needs.
9. Environmental and Social Aspects. The project has been rated category
"B" due to environmental issues in the region. No adverse environmental
impact of the project is expected. Positive environmental initiatives are to
be undertaken under the third component such as: introduction of cleaner
methods of gold processing which reduce mercury pollution of water, and
integrated approaches to micro-watershed management. National norms
concerning environmental licensing will be respected and the Consortium will
define a screening mechanism for sub-projects. As part of the LIL, the
Consortium will develop an adequate environmental assessment-review process
for the next phase of the Program of increased investment activity. The PDPMM
has put social issues at the heart of its approach and an explicit objective
of the program is to build social capital. No negative social consequences of
the program are foreseen. The program has been built using a participatory
methodology which is a continuous process of social analysis with communities
playing a central role.
-3-



10. Program Objective Categories: Poverty Reduction (PA), Environmentally
Sustainable Development (EN).
Contact Point:                    Elsie Garfield, TM
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 4 -



