Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22452
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43710; PPFB-P3130)
ONA
LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 27, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso
2184 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.0 = 0.000458
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CDPMM               Consortium for Development and Peace Magdalena Medio
CINEP               Center for Research and Popular Education
(Centro de Investigacion y Educacion Popular)
CMDR                Municipal Council for Rural Development
(Consejo Municipal de Desarrollo Rural)
CMP                 Municipal Planning Council (Consejo Municipal de Planeacion)
DNP                 National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion)
ECOPETROL           National Oil Company (Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo)
ELN                 National Liberation Army (Ejercito Nacional de Liberacion)
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
NDP                 National Development Plan
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PDPMM               Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region
(Programa de Desarrollo y Paz para el Magdalena Medio)
PNR                 National Rehabilitation Program (Program Nacional de Rehabilitacion)
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
TA                  Technical Assistance
U JNDP              United Nations Development Program
IJNPF               United Nations Population Fund
(Q)AG               Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:   John Redwood
Sector Manager:   Shelton Davis
Sector Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:   Elsie Garfield



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting hnplementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                           33
Annex 9. ECOPETROL's Contribution to the ICR                                          39
Map IBRD 29517
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P046031                                       Project Name: MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   _
Team Leader: Elsie B. Garfield                            TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL                       L/C/ITFNumber: SCL-43710;
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           PPFB-P3130
CountryIDepartment: COLOMBIA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: MC - Community Action Program; MY -
Non-Sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/10/98                                Effective:  10/13/98           10/09/98
Appraisal:  03/10/98                                  MTR:
Approval:  06/30/98                                Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/ImplementingAgency:  REPUBLIC OF COLOMBLA/NATIONAL PLANNING
DEPARTMENT/CONSORTIUM FOR DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE
MAGDALENA MEDIO
Other Partners: ECOPETROL, UNDP
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal        __
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                         Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                               Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:   Elsie Garfield                            Elsie Garfield
ICR Primary Author:   Elsie B. Garfield; Natalia
Gomez; Jairo A. Arboleda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HTJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM) was initiated in 1995
by the Consortium for Development and Peace Magdalena Medio (CDPMM) with support from the
national petroleum company (ECOPETROL) and the Catholic church. The Magdalena Medio region does
not correspond to a single political-administrative unit. It is composed of 29 municipalities located in 4
Departments (Antioquia, Santander, Bolivar and Cesar) which share the following characteristics:
proximity to the Magdalena River and its culture, influence of the petroleum industry and importance of
ECOPETROL, recent settlement (major influx in the 1950s), inattention (at least until recently) of the
Departments in which the municipalities are located, and a high level of armed conflict and violence. A
majority of the population of around 810,724 live in rural areas or secondary towns, while 36% of the
people live in two cities, Barrancabermeja and Aguachica.
The project development objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan is to develop the operational
capacity of the Consortium, citizen's network and other partners to work together towards collectively
defined objectives to reduce poverty and increase peaceful coexistence in the Magdalena Medio region.
The two-year LIL would thus establish a solid basis for the detailed design and implementation of an
ambitious ten-year community-led, multi-sectoral development program.
The project's development objective was clear. The objective focused on learning and capacity building
which was realistic given the pioneering nature of the project for both the Bank and the Government of
Colombia: promotion of a community-based participatory approach to development and peace in one of the
most conflictive regions of the country. The associated learning objectives were well defined, as well as the
monitoring and evaluating system for ensuring a continuous learning mode and assessment of results.
This project was of critical importance to Colombia. It was one of the first lending operations in the new
area of Bank assistance to Colombia, peace and development, identified by government authorities and civil
society representatives as Colombia's number one development priority and incorporated as such in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in late 1997 (Rpt. 17107-CO). As noted in the
CAS Progress Report presented to the Board two years later (R99-201, November 1999), the importance
of this project and Bank assistance in this area increased when a new presidential administration took office
in August 1998 with peace as its central objective. Its National Development Plan (NDP) for 1998-2002,
established a two track approach to the peace process: (i) at the national level, negotiations for peace with
various armed groups; and (ii) at the regional and local level, promotion of initiatives to build social capital
and address the root causes of violence. The PDPMM had defined a community development approach,
being tested under the project, which was the key source of the new government's thinking about how to
promote development in conflictive regions.
The LIL was chosen as the appropriate lending instrument and the project objective was shaped to reflect
the need to build capacity and test the feasibility of the participatory approach and promotion of a
long-term development program in the complex conditions of the Magdalena Medio region. In this respect,
the objective was appropriate to the situation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had two components which are described below:
Component 1. Capacity Building for Program Management (US$3.12 excluding PPF refinancing). The
objective of this component is to build the capacity of the Consortium and Citizen's Network to implement
the PDPMM.
Sub-Component 1.1: Consortium as Change Agent and Program manager.  The objective of this
sub-component is to develop the Consortium's capacity to move from a participatory planning mode to an
operational mode characterized by: (i) acting as a catalyst (promoter, intermediary, advisor and financier)
among relevant beneficiaries and stakeholders; (ii) translating local initiatives into viable action plans and
investments; (iii) promoting the establishment of effective partnerships with other organizations to support
development initiatives; and (iv) dealing effectively with the diverse interests of key stakeholders in the
region.
Sub-Component 1.2: Citizen's Network The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the Citizen's
Network so that it is capable of influencing public affairs and implementing development projects based on
local initiatives. The network is a voluntary association of citizens and organizations which has its base in a
nucleo in each municipality, representatives of each nucleo in the nodo at the subregional level and
representatives of each nodo at the regional level. It has a central role in program implementation and is
considered by the Consortium as a vehicle for building social capital in the region.
Component 2. Sub-Projects (US$2.75 million). The objective of this component is to develop, test and
document approaches which bring together community processes and resources around specific
development initiatives agreed upon by citizens and authorities of selected municipalities or sub-regions of
Magdalena Medio. Strategies and sub-projects are at various stages of development in the following areas
identified as priorities by communities: education, health, environment, economic development, peaceful
coexistence and institutional development.
Sub-Component 2.1: Technical Assistance for Sub-Proiect Preparation. Technical support (technical
advice, feasibility and design studies, building of management capacity and establishing links with potential
partners and financiers) will be provided to a community to develop a specific development initiative or
sub-project.
Sub-Component 2.2: Sub-Projects. The project will finance a proportion of the costs of specific
sub-projects which are expected to cost less than US$50,000. This sub-component will have a phased
approach (a LIL within a LIL): financing would begin in strategic areas such as education, health and
environment which are well defined, and new areas would be phased in based on two criteria i.e. the
strategy is ready and the implementation capacity of the Consortium and communities is judged sufficient
to expand the component's scope.
The project components were well designed, with clear results linked coherently to the project's
development objective and a well-designed monitoring and evaluation system for assessing impact and
results. Capacity building through a "learning by doing" approach was an explicit objective of the project's
two components in order to pave the way to realize the long-term regional development program. Thus, the
project design explicitly took capacity into account with some special efforts related to increasing the
administrative and financial management capacities of the Consortium, and during this process to rely on
UNDP to support certain project management functions.
- 3 -



This project drew on lessons from various sources. The Bank team brought to the project design lessons
from: (i) the Bank's evolving approach for integrating concern for conflict into development operations; (ii)
the positive experiences in promoting rural development in Brazil; as well as (iii) the Bank's experiences in
Colombia particularly with the Rural Development Investment Program (ICR Report No. 16721, June
1997) which it supported for 20 years. By far, the most important lessons which shaped the approach to be
tested under the LIL were brought to the project design by the Consortium team in particular those who had
worked in CINEP (one of the founding members of the Consortium) which had a long history of carrying
out participatory-action research, and promoting informal education. CINEP had also worked in
conflictive areas under Colombia's National Rehabilitation Program (PNR) which promoted community
development and participation in conflictive regions from 1984-1994. In addition, a member of the
Consortium team participated in a Bank-sponsored study tour of Social Funds in Latin America which
allowed the CDPMM to draw on relevant aspects of this experience for design of the project's second
component.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QAG FY99 Quality at Entry review rated the operation satisfactory. The in-depth assessment panel
indicated that the project was a high priority for the Government and CAS; that in its narrow formulation,
the objective of the LIL is clear and realistic; that it considered the LIL the most appropriate instrument for
Bank support; that there is sufficient clarity in the project's design regarding what is to be learned and the
indicators to measure the learning experience are well developed; and that there was a high level of
borrower and partner commitment. The panel raised some concerns about financial management; readiness
for implementation since the operational manual for the sub-projects had not yet been approved; and
broader concerns about the feasibility and risks of scaling up after the LIL to carry out the ambitious
objectives of the PDPMM.
The ICR assessment of quality of entry is highly satisfactory which is consistent with the project's results
on the ground, the findings of the QAG, and the fact that the QAG's specific concerns were effectively dealt
with during implementation. The project's financial management was adequate as indicated by the external
auditors, and it was completed on time. The project is regarded by some in the Bank as an exemplary use of
the LIL instrument in terms of the design and manner in which it was carried out; it has been examined and
highlighted as an appropriate example of a LIL in the two reviews of adaptable lending. The project was
highly consistent with the CAS and Government priorities. Bank safeguard policies were adequately
treated. The project squarely addressed the main risk factor which was external to the project, the evolution
of the armed conflict in the region and Colombia. One of the fundamental purposes of undertaking the LIL
was to explore the potential and limitations of a strongly participatory, community development approach
within a context of conflict. The situation of armed conflict and insecurity in the region worsened during the
course of the project, due mainly to factors related to the national peace process (see section 5.1). The
ability of the Consortium to successfully work in this environment, and the effectiveness of its approach to
promoting development in the midst of conflict were demonstrated. The mechanisms for carrying out the
project (semi-annual plans, operating manual, quarterly M&E reports) worked well in this difficult and
quickly changing environment, and proved effective as learning tools though they were difficult for the
Consortium to master initially. Thus, the project design achieved the right balance between planning and
flexibility.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is highly satisfactory despite worsening security conditions in parts of the region due
to external factors during the two and a half year implementation period. The participatory, community
oriented methodology for promoting development in the midst of conflict piloted under this project has
proven effective at creating a longer term vision of a better future for the region, strengthening the region's
human and social capital, mobilizing resources and attention for the region, and starting a community-led
process of improving basic services and investment which can be scaled up as the PDPMM progresses.
The project's development objective of increasing the operational capacity of the Consortium, citizen's
network and other partners to work towards collectively defined objectives was achieved. There is ample
evidence in the two external evaluations (carried out by a reputable university research institute), the
project's quarterly monitoring and evaluation reports, and other reports prepared for the ICR (Annex 7) of
a positive assessment of all 4 of the key impact indicators (Annex 1 of this report).
The two external evaluations which relied on significant field work in a sample of five municipalities
provided strong evidence of the perception at various levels that the PDPMM has made a positive and
important contribution. The second external evaluation completed in late November 2000 reinforced the
first evaluation's conclusions that: the program's philosophy and objectives have been internalized by the
participants, that involvement in the program has increased self-esteem of both individuals and groups, and
that capacities have been increased. Thus, the most striking achievement is the increase in human and social
capital: the citizens network now includes 23 nucleos and 147 organizations involving 8,625 persons who
have internalized the vision and goals of the program. The capacity of the Consortium has been
substantially increased, as evidenced by its ability to operate in the increasingly complex situation in the
region, to mobilize and effectively use US$7.0 million (amount directly managed by CDPMM) during the
period of the LIL, and to assist communities with 67 sub-projects with tangible results in terms of increased
capacity of the organizations promoting them.
The project's impact goes beyond its development objective and achievements in the Magdalena Medio
region. It has contributed to: (i) the Government's thinking and strategic approach to development in
conflictive regions, including the concept of delegating implementation to a respected third party (see
Annex 8); (ii) Colombia's image and the ability to raise funds to support the peace process (the PDPMM's
achievements have been showcased in international forums such as the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland in January 2001, and in donors meetings in London, Madrid and Bogota); (iii) inspire and
provide technical support for the initiation of regional development programs based on similar principles in
9 other regions of Colombia; and (iv) a new way of working for the Bank, Government, and other key
participants including communities characterized by a learning mode and partnerships which could serve as
an example for other projects in Colombia.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As indicated in Section 3.3, the design of the project components was appropriate for achieving the defined
outputs, and a combination of qualitative and quantitative performance indicators were defined in the PAD
and assessed during implementation (see Annex 1 of ICR).
Component 1. Capacity Building for Program Management (US$3.12 million PAD, US$4.81 actual).
Sub-Component 1.1: Consortium as Change Agent and Program Manager (US$2.62 million PAD,
US$4.11 actual).
The performance under this sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The Consortium achieved
recognition in the region as a serious entity, operating in a transparent manner, efficient in the management
and use of resources, and respectful of citizens' initiatives. The perceptions of direct beneficiaries, partners
- 5 -



(such as municipal authorities), the general public as well as national authorities were positive about the
PDPMM, and the Consortium's contributions were recognized. The Consortium's capacity to work with
diverse stakeholders within the complex and deteriorating security situation in the region was also
demonstrated.
During the project, the Consortium consolidated its operating and administrative structure which had
previously been located in Bogota and quite informal. It subsequently took steps in 2000 to adjust this
structure, and to initiate a further decentralization in response to concerns of participants and its staff who
indicated the need for a more integrated operating structure closer to beneficiaries with more differentiation
in accord with the conditions in the 8 sub-regions. The Consortium progressively improved the content and
implementation of each of the five semi-annual plans. It completed the two and a half year project on time
with the total loan and counterpart fund amount fully disbursed by the closing date. It proved highly
effective in promoting partnerships with other organizations and bringing new actors into the region to
support priority development initiatives, as well as in raising additional funds. After some problems in the
first year of the project, the Consortium developed effective methods for assisting organizations and their
members to develop the capacity and knowledge to prepare sub-projects. It creatively adapted the
methodology of "rapid results initiatives" (see articles cited in Annex 7) to develop initiatives in a phased
process whereby a community organization defines a series of short term results/goals which build capacity
and knowledge in an iterative fashion as it prepares an initiative for the investment phase.
While putting in place the monitoring, evaluation and learning system proved more challenging and
time-consuming than expected, the M&E unit provided important feedback and analysis which served as a
basis for making adjustments in concepts, methodologies and operations. Critical outputs of the M&E work
included: eight quarterly M&E reports; a preliminary set of baseline data for the PDPMM; checklists used
by Consortium managers and staff to evaluate progress under the semi-annual plans; key methodologies,
instruments and training tools for formative evaluation to be carried out by members of the nucleos and
organizations managing initiatives; initial training on formative evaluation; two external evaluation reports;
and special reports on the results of the LIL.
Sub-Component 1.2: Citizen's Network (US$0.50 million PAD, US$0.70 actual).
The performance under this component is rated highly satisfactory, even though there are variations across
municipalities. The Consortium conceived of the citizen's network as a vehicle for building social capital in
the region. Under the LIL, the Consortium promoted, tested and refined a participatory methodology
(focused on the nucleo) for arriving at agreement among key stakeholders in each municipality around
long-term development priorities (municipal proposal) and specific activities and investments to begin to
address long-term priorities (initiatives and sub-projects). The LIL supported the work of the nucleos in
developing the municipal proposals through grant funding of six month plans of action; 24 nucleos carried
out at least one plan. In many cases, the nucleo members became increasingly involved in municipal
decisions including in some cases formal or informal involvement in the legally mandated mechanisms for
community involvement in planning (CMDR, CMP); in addition, the project supported the strengthening of
these mechanisms. The 23 regularly operating nucleos are at various stages in developing the municipal
proposals. In at least two cases, the municipal proposals developed by the nucleo influenced the
development programs of mayors newly elected in October 2000. Another important achievement was the
establishment, with support from the National Planning Council (a civilian body mandated by the 1991
Constitution to oversee the national development plan) of a Regional Participatory Planning System for
Magdalena Medio which brought together members of the nucleos, municipal planning authorities, and
participatory planning bodies.
The actions of the PDPMM through the participatory methodology developed by Consortium, created a set
of relations between people and communities that established a sense of common purpose and identification
with the program's philosophy and objectives-with guiding principles of respect for life, sustainability
- 6 -



and inclusion. A considerable number of citizens incorporated in their manner of thinking and acting the
principles and methodology of the program. The methodology proved effective, as confirmed by the second
external evaluation, in:  increasing the capacity of persons to participate in managing their own
development through nucleos and organizations, creating and strengthening social values (such as
tolerance, civic-mindedness) and trust, developing a consensus on the role of nucleos, and maintaining the
willingness of people to continue to work together on a collective vision of development for their
municipality and the region.
The concept of the citizen's network evolved during the course of the project. The original concept was of a
network with a pyramidal, somewhat fixed structure. With time and the dynamic of the project's
implementation, the concept became more flexible and horizontal: the network consists of a series of
networks of organizations and persons who join together to pursue common interests and objectives; the
members of these networks have a common set of principles, values and participatory work methodologies
transferred to them by the PDPMM. There are currently 10 such networks operating including community
radio stations, youth, and producer associations for fishermen, palm oil and cacao. This process has
expanded the social base of program.
Component 2. Sub-Projects (US$2.75 million PAD, US$6.67 actual).
Performance under this component is rated satisfactory relative to initial expectations which proved overly
ambitious, and highly satisfactory in terms of overall achievements. Certain aspects of the component were
adjusted during implementation. Stemming from the Bank's concerns to avoid over-stretching the
Consortium's capacity, the concept of this component in the PAD was to phase in financing of specific
strategic areas (defined in sectoral terms) when a well-defined strategy and sufficient capacity of the
Consortium and communities existed. This proved unworkable as the Consortium faced pent-up demand
for investment funding, and it proved hard for them to severely limit the geographic coverage of the
initiatives. In addition, the demand was particularly strong for productive projects though this was the area
in which they were least experienced. Fortunately, as part of LIL preparation, they had prepared strategies
for each of the sectoral areas which provided sufficient direction. The Operating Manual provided a basic
decision making framework and guidance for the preparation and implementation of sub-projects,
representing a big step forward for the Consortium which had handled these matters in a more subjective
and informal way previously.
During the LIL, the PDPMM promoted and supported the identification, preparation and start-up of 67
initiatives or sub-projects, led and implemented by community and producer/social organizations with
support from the Consortium. This was a larger number than expected and the dynamic of the participatory
process led to a majority of initiatives supported being productive: of the 67 initiatives supported 60 were
of a productive character (20 classified as rural production including agro-industrial projects, 8 as
marketing, 14 as urban production, and 18 related to fishing and the environment). The remainder were
classified as education (2) and institutional development and peace/conflict resolution (5). In addition, with
financing from the Ministry of Health and the United Nations Population Fund (UNPF), an ambitious
program for the health sector was carried out. Based on the Consortium's assessment at the end of the LIL,
51 of these initiatives (76%) accounting for 94% of the total funding for sub-projects either have good
prospects and are worth pursuing (33), or should be considered for continuation if certain conditions are
met (18). Thus, the project successfully contributed to identifying and developing productive initiatives
with good potential to improve the incomes and living standards of beneficiaries. While most productive
initiatives never fully entered the investment phase during the LIL, a solid basis for investment was
established and will be supported in the next phase of the PDPMM. In addition, the education projects and
program in the health sector have demonstrated good results (see Annex 1, Table 3). The specific lessons
learned in each strategic area are discussed in the documents cited in Annex 7.
- 7 -



During implementation of this component, the Consortium recognized that the process of helping
communities to transform initiatives into investment projects in a way that is empowering was more
time-consuming and difficult than expected. During the first year of the project, the Consortium worked to
identify effective processes for helping organizations develop productive initiatives into investment projects;
it realized in early 1999 that it had focused efforts mostly on the capacity building aspects (referred to as
endogenous factors) with insufficient attention to the other aspects of a project's feasibility (technology,
financing, marketing etc., referred to as exogenous factors). It also recognized that a different skill mix in
the Consortium team and more specialized technical support from outside were required. The CDPMM
was able to take these lessons into account and make notable achievements. By the end of the project, the
Consortium decided to move to a more decentralized structure which would put technical staff in the
sub-regions as part of integrated teams so that they could provide support and follow-up to communities on
a regular basis; this would be combined with greater reliance on specialized technical assistance for specific
tasks.
Another important development during the project was the Consortium's decision to move toward
supporting larger, somewhat more complex productive projects covering more than one municipality
(referred to as "meso" projects) which they believed would have a greater regional development impact and
also serve to bring several organizations together thus reinforcing the process of creating and strengthening
social capital in the region. This increased the challenges as these projects tended to be more risky due to
their higher investment cost and complexity. The approach to productive projects gradually became more
programmatic like the approaches in the health, and to a lesser extent, education sectors.
By the end of the project, the Consortium had developed effective methods for assisting organizations and
their members to develop capacity and knowledge. An important result of the project, to some extent
attributable to trial and error, was that the Consortium became more aware of what knowledge and
experience it was unable to provide directly to support initiatives, and it developed a format for provision
of external technical assistance that empowered and improved the capacity of organizations and producers.
It used several innovative methods and tools to support the development of productive projects including
benchmarking ("referencia competitiva") and analysis of economic circuits. The benchmarking
methodology compared the production processes of individual producers/firms with each other, with other
regions in Magdalena Medio, and with other parts of Colombia, and in some cases internationally. This
helped producers to: (i) better understand the context in which their initiative was being developed
(production chain, accounting and competitiveness issues at local, regional, national and international
level), and the technical options, profitability, sustainability and competitiveness of alternative development
approaches. To identify productive opportunities in urban areas, analyses of economic circuits (economic
transactions in a particular locality, backward and forward linkages of each economic activity, production
costs and efficiency of each activity) were undertaken.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable for this LIL, though during the project NPV and financial rate of return were calculated as
part of the feasibility studies for some of the larger productive projects such as cacao and palm oil.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for this LIL; see point 4.3.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The PDPMM promotes partnerships based on shared goals between communities and their organizations,
and public and private institutions. The institutional development impact of this project is considered to be
substantial in the following respects:
-8 -



* it pioneered a new arrangement provided for in the 1991 Constitution, whereby the Government can
delegate to an NGO or third party responsibility for carrying out actions on its behalf. As indicated in
its assessment of the project in Annex 8, DNP became convinced that this could be an efficient and
effective way for the government to support development in difficult areas of the country;
* the Consortium was strengthened and refined its role as the program moved into the operational phase.
It demonstrated in practice a new way of working, as a facilitator of alliances and partnerships,
mediator, and strong promoter of community development. During the course of the project, it became
more selective about what it needed to do directly and which funds it should manage directly. Its
credibility was critical for bringing other actors into the region and for working with the communities
and organizations;
* under the project, an approach to building more responsive local institutions was tested which focused
on increasing citizen and community knowledge and capacity--building informed demand--to create a
constituency for better government and local institutions; this contrasts with the usual approach of
focusing on the institutions themselves and providing training and other resources with the assumption
that they want to be more responsive but simply lack the means. Simultaneously, the Consortium
worked with local governments and institutions which showed motivation to develop in ways consistent
with the program's objectives. Notable accomplishments are: the strengthening of participatory
planning bodies at the municipal level, creation of the Regional Planning System, and the translation
into practice of reforms in the education and health sectors (see Annex 1, Table 3).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The key factor outside the control of the government and implementing agency which partially affected the
project outcome was the evolution of the armed conflict and deterioration of the security situation in parts
of the region. This was due largely to external factors related to the Pastrana Government's attempts to
negotiate peace starting in mid-1998, and the military and political strategies of the various armed actors
vis-a-vis this process. A series of key events made the situation complex:
v in October 1998, the conquering by the paramilitaries of municipalities in the south of the Bolivar
department which had for many years been controlled by the National Liberation Army (ELN) and the
resulting exodus of 20,000 peasant farmers to occupy schools and other public buildings in
Barrancabermeja for 3 months;
* the drawn out and still inconclusive attempt to initiate peace talks with the ELN through the creation of
a meeting zone ('zona de encuentro") in two municipalities in the south of Bolivar department in the
areas which the paramilitaries now dominate, and the reaction of the civilian population and
paramilitaries against this proposal resulting in a road blockade for more than a month and disruptions
throughout much of 2000; and
*   the launching of a military campaign by the paramilitaries at the end of 2000 to control the poorer
neighborhoods in Barrancabermeja which had been dominated for many years by various guerrilla
movements.
In addition, the Government's announcement of Plan Colombia generated negative reactions from diverse
sources including the guerrilla groups, politicians, UN officials, and leaders of civil society organizations
especially those concerned with human rights. This also affected the environment in which the project was
carried out.
The armed conflict was recognized as a key factor going into the project, and the Consortium was able to
-9-



manage these risks effectively and successfully in order to achieve the project's objectives. However, the
project could have achieved a lot more if it had not had to deal with a situation which became much more
complex than imagined: requiring a lot of time and attention to manage, resulting in the Consortium being
asked to take on new roles by the Government and others, resulting in fear and intimidation of citizens
which presented obstacles in certain parts of the region at certain times to the participatory approach, and
resulting in setbacks and loss of positive achievements in some cases.
Another key factor affecting implementation which was acknowledged in the PAD, but whose operational
implications were not fully understood is the heterogeneity of the region. The diversity of conditions in the
region (geo-logistical, political, economic, and particularly human and social capital endowments)
combined with the dynamic of the armed conflict resulted in great variation in the rhythm, timetable and
costs of development activities among municipalities, sub-regions, and organizations. During the course of
the project, the Consortium adjusted its methodologies and expectations for developing municipal proposals
and initiatives to make them more flexible to take into account these differences. In addition, it realized that
the expectations for the accomplishments under the second component of the LIL were too ambitious.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main factor affecting implementation which was subject to the government control but had a minor
impact on project outcome was a rupture of project funding in the second quarter of 2000. An unfortunate
combination of inattention by the Consortium which led to submitting a disbursement application late when
funds in the UNDP project account were low, and the lack of mastery in DNP and the Ministry of Finance
of a new integrated computer system for managing public finances (the project was the first World Bank
financed project to have a disbursement application processed through the new system) led to a several
month delay in processing the application and a period when the Consortium had no money. This disrupted
the flow of funds for nucleo plans and sub-projects, but fortunately the Consortium's credibility was
sufficiently high that it did not cause serious damage to the PDPMM or the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Throughout the implementation period, there was a frank dialogue between the Bank and Consortium about
what was perceived to be working and not working well. While there were a number of factors subject to
the Consortium's control which arose, none had a major impact on the project's outcome. However, more
timely and decisive action to hire an experienced financial and administrative manager would have
substantially improved implementation. This delay was costly in terms of getting in place effective
management systems, and in the time spent by other staff (without the requisite level of experience)
temporarily assigned responsibility for these functions at the cost of their technical work. When this
problem was resolved  in late 1999, a rapid and remarkable improvement was achieved which was
maintained for the remainder of the project.
The participatory planning process of the PDPMM prior to the LIL generated high expectations among
many organizations which had identified initiatives some of which were already receiving support from the
Consortium. Unfortunately, the Consortium's lack of a clear definition of entry and exit criteria for
supporting initiatives (the screening criteria in the Operating Manual were very general), and of the type
and limits of the Consortium's support led to: (i) frustration when initiatives were not supported, and (ii)
support by the Consortium of initiatives which did not necessarily have good prospects. The need for clear
and transparent criteria was one of the project's lessons which will be addressed in the follow-up project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The cost estimates in the PAD were approximate given the iterative nature of project implementation
through the use of semi-annual operating plans, and uncertainties about additional funding (not quantified
- 1 0 -



at appraisal) which the Consortium and community organizations would raise from other sources during
the course of the project. They were successful in fund-raising which resulted in more activities being
undertaken and greater achievements being realized. No significant disbursement or implementation delays
occurred.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Normally not applicable for a LIL.
Since there is much skepticism about whether it would be possible to make progress toward sustainable
development in the difficult circumstances of the Magdalena Medio region, it seems important to address
this matter. Any achievements in the midst of the current circumstances in the region are fragile, and the
ability to achieve the ambitious objectives of the PDPMM are subject ultimately to the broader process
towards peace and security in Colombia. However, the Government believes that the project has
contributed to this broader process. The ICR assessment is that the lessons of the project about an effective
community development methodology for a conflictive region, and the capacities that the PDPMM has
helped develop in the people and organizations of Magdalena Medio will live on and be put to good use in
the region or elsewhere, irrespective of the reversals which may be experienced due to a worsening of the
armed conflict. The PDPMM was conceived as a long-term development program which has a high degree
of commitment and ownership within and outside the region; therefore, the process is unlikely to be deterred
by short-term reversals. This type of project does not resolve the armed conflict, but it creates conditions to
facilitate dialogue among contending parties, it sets in motion a process for addressing some of the
underlying reasons for the conflict, and it prepares the way for a post-conflict intervention.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has consistently indicated to the Bank the importance it places on continuing support to
the PDPMM which is central to its peace and development agenda. In July 2000, the Bank agreed to the
Government's request to initiate preparation of a follow-up project as part of continued Bank support for
the program; the other key partners (ECOPETROL and UNDP) also indicated their continued support. In
order for the Consortium to continue its work after the loan funding was exhausted, the Government
provided interim funding of roughly US$500,000 from its 2000 investment budget and ECOPETROL's
Board agreed to provide US$1.3 million (to start disbursing in early 2001) as counterpart funding for the
new project.
The proposed follow-up project will be a second LIL which builds on the lessons and successes of the first
project, and extends the learning into challenging new areas:
*   develop and test new organizational and operational mechanisms for managing the PDPMM which
increase the role of community organizations, take into account the diverse conditions in the region
particularly the armed conflict, and gradually decrease dependence on the Consortium;
* further develop and test approaches for strengthening local institutions, both private and public, to
make them more responsive to citizens needs and priorities, and capable of resolving conflicts
peacefully; and
* test approaches for implementing productive projects which increase the probability of their success
(for example, methodologies to help small producers and the poor develop sound market approaches
for an array of enterprises) and contribution to the economic and social development of the region.
The second project will focus on the three new learning areas within the larger set of objectives, activities
and funding defined in the Consortium's three-year plan (2001-2003) of support for the next phase of the
- I 1 -



Program of Development and Peace for Magdalena Medio. It will pave the way for a subsequent phase of
the PDPMM which will be more ambitious in terms of the poverty and peace objectives, amount of
funding, and the leadership role of communities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project are considered highly
satisfactory. The Bank was approached by the Government and Consortium in April 1996, and asked if it
was interested in joining the PDPMM as a partner. Convinced that this was an excellent opportunity to put
in practice its desire to work more closely with civil society, and improve the poverty impact of Bank
lending through an integrated approach in a region, Bank management was courageous in agreeing to
prepare an innovative project in a challenging region of Colombia.
The Bank team worked closely with the Consortium team to prepare a regular investment project, and then
shifted to a LIL when this option became available in mid-1997. The degree of Bank team involvement in
preparation was high and the quality of inputs was good, though at times there was frustration on both
sides as it took time for the two teams to develop a common vocabulary, concept of development, and
understanding of the practical steps required to get the project approved. The Bank team remained flexible
and open to new ideas, and made a significant contribution to the design in the following respects:
encouraging the Consortium to adjust its focus from individual sub-projects to a more strategic approach,
defining the learning areas and incorporating them into the design of the M&E system, and bringing
practicality and realism in terms of what could be achieved in a short time in the complex conditions of the
region. As indicated in section 3.3, the ICR assessment is that the resulting design was good, the lending
instrument was appropriate, and an effective partnership was built.
Some concerns were raised by the QAG about the time and money spent on preparation considering the
operation was a LIL. This stenmmed from several factors: (i) the LIL was not an option until September
1997, thus time and money were spent trying to comply with requirements of a regular loan which was not
really suitable for this operation; (ii) the newness of the LIL meant that start-up costs were incurred while
the team clarified what was required; (iii) the innovative nature of the project and the way it was to be
carried out; and (iv) the time required to build a partnership. As indicated by the QAG panel's assessment
of client commitment and the quality of the participatory process, the investment of staff time and money
led to a very high degree of ownership, trust and partnership with both the Consortium and the
Government. The ICR assessment is that this was a worthwhile investment.
7.2 Supervision:
One of the main concerns of management in approving this project was whether the Bank would be able to
adequately supervise the project due to the difficult security conditions in the project area. Despite
worsening conditions in various parts of the region throughout the life of the project, good supervision was
possible and a "continuous" supervision mode was adopted. The measures defined in the PAD for ensuring
adequate supervision were effective: (i) working with a highly reputable NGO, fully responsible for
carrying out the project, which has shown the capacity to manage the difficult conditions in the region; (ii)
regular feedback in the form of the semi-annual plans and quarterly M&E reports; and (iii) independent,
professional assessments of the project's implementation and results/impact by Colombian experts (annual
financial audits including field visits, and two external evaluations). Fortunately, it was also possible for
Bank staff to go the region for short visits and a major supervision mission in March 2000.
The ICR rating of the Bank's supervision effort is highly satisfactory which is consistent with the QAG
- 12 -



assessment that supervision in FY00 was at the high end of satisfactory with a highly satisfactory rating for
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes. The QAG noted: the proactive style of supervision in a
challenging environment; quick response to issues as they arise; attention to social dimensions and
community participation as well as M&E; excellent team composition and continuity; and close
management interest and oversight. The Bank team was persistent in getting problems solved, while
respectful of the Consortium's autonomy. It provided on-going support with a high level of technical inputs
for the proposed palm oil projects, and the monitoring and evaluation system; it also shared new tools such
as the Rapid Results Framework which came out of the Bank's staff training program. The only area where
a bit more attention was warranted was procurement, although only minor issues have been identified.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank was courageous to support this
operation, and provided the project team the resources and support they needed. The team adopted a
constructive and open-minded attitude which helped build an effective partnership with the Government,
Consortium, ECOPETROL and UTNDP, and provided technical support which contributed to the project's
successful outcome. One area identified by the Government and Consortium where the Bank needs to
devote more thought is whether further flexibility is warranted in the application of its policies and
procedures to LILs to ensure consistency with the rationale for this lending instrument and to reduce
transaction costs.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The ICR's rating of the Borrower's performance in preparation is satisfactory. The Government and
ECOPETROL (as the original sponsor of the PDPMM and provider of counterpart funds for the LIL) were
courageous in supporting the PDPMM, and in being willing to try an innovative institutional arrangement
which delegated project implementation responsibility to an independent NGO. During the preparation
process, the National Planning Department adopted a low profile and relied on the Consortium to work
directly with the Bank to define the project's design. While their trust in the Consortium was laudable, in
hindsight it would have been useful if they had been more involved in preparation as a means of building
the partnership with the Consortium and Bank, and acquiring a more in-depth understanding of the
PDPMM and project. However, this did not have any important negative consequences, and DNP carried
out satisfactorily its responsibility for overseeing the project's design and approval. An important positive
factor which sped up project processing was the Government's approval of streamlined procedures for
approving LILs.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The ICR rates the Government's implementation performance as highly satisfactory. DNP exercised its
oversight responsibilities and managed the National Technical Committee effectively; it provided adequate
guidance while according the Consortium the independence and flexibility required for it to effectively carry
out the PDPMM in the complex conditions of the region. DNP's involvement and knowledge of the
PDPMM increased substantially during implementation when they assigned a person full-time to supervise
the project including regular field visits. While there were certain weaknesses in terms of administrative
procedures, mainly processing of disbursement applications in 2000, DNP and the Ministry of Finance
worked actively to solve the problems. Various Government agencies worked closely with the Consortium
and provided support for the PDPMM, including the Ministries of Health, Education, and Agriculture. The
Government also played an active role in identifying additional funding sources for the PDPMM. DNP and
ECOPETROL participated actively in the ICR process to distill the lessons learned during the LIL and
share them more widely in Colombia.
- 13-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The ICR rates the Consortium's performance as highly satisfactory. A key project objective was to
strengthen the Consortium's capacity, and during implementation it became clear that its strengths and
weaknesses had been accurately identified. The Consortium proved itself to be a learning organization,
willing to evaluate and improve its own performance, and to have an open dialogue with others (e.g.
communities, external evaluator and donors) about its strengths and areas for improvement. Its major
strengths demonstrated during project implementation include: the high level of integrity, commitment and
professionalism of the staff; ingenuity in adapting new tools and developing new approaches for work in the
region; effective communication of the fundamental principles of the PDPMM and ability to mobilize
support; ability to design and implement a participatory community development strategy; and ability to
manage the risks related to the conflictive environment in which the project was carried out.
Concerning the areas where initial capacity was weak, the Consortium made outstanding progress during
the course of the project. Major improvements were made in the financial and administrative area
particularly in the last year of the project, including capacity building and oversight of the 8 sub-regional
offices, nucleos and organizations carrying out initiatives. The Consortium was able to learn and
adequately handle the difficult and at times unclear aspects of managing public funds and a loan from the
World Bank, although Bank procurement norms were not fully mastered. The quality of M&E is
considered highly satisfactory and concerns raised in the first external evaluation about slow
implementation of the formative evaluation methodology to be used by beneficiaries was addressed in the
remaining 9 months of the project. Midway through the project, the Consortium recognized that the effort
to convert initiatives into sub-projects, particularly for agro-industrial projects involving more than one
municipality, was much more complicated than originally foreseen, requiring a different skill mix in the
Consortium team and more specialized technical support from outside. In particular, it took awhile for it to
recognize the need for a thorough preparation process for more complex, regional projects. Bank support
concentrated on this area, and the Consortium was eventually able to make notable achievements. After
concern was raised that the procedures for environmental screening of initiatives included in the Operating
Manual had not been fully internalized and applied early enough in the project cycle, the Consortium team
made a considerable effort in 2000 to review each initiative's environmental aspects and to handle these
matters in a more timely and effective way. In conclusion, the Consortium brought to the project strong
capacity in critical areas and improved its performance substantially in areas where weaknesses were
identified during the course of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory, with particular recognition for the
Consortium's dedication, commitment and contributions in the face of many difficulties. The Government
of Colombia demonstrated a very high level of commitment to this project and the PDPMM. It was
proactive in seeking Bank and other support for a follow-up project, and obtaining "bridge financing" to
ensure continuation of the PDPMM until new loan funds are available. During project implementation,
DNP was active in recognizing and resolving problems, and made important contributions to the ICR
process. The Government was respectful of the Consortium's autonomy and point of view, and they
managed to work well together despite different views on certain Government policies.
8. Lessons Learned
An ICR workshop was held on December 6, 2000 with active participation of the project's key
stakeholders including the World Bank, National Planning Department, UNDP, ECOPETROL and some
community representatives to assess what had been learned during the LIL. The methodology and results of
the workshop are presented in the "Memorias del Taller" (attached to the ICR mission's aide memoire
- 14 -



which is in the project file). The principal lessons identified in the workshop and by the ICR team's analysis
are described below.
Operational model for community-based, participatory approach to development in a conilictive
region of Colombia. The participatory, operational model for promoting development piloted under the
project functioned well in the complex, conflictive environment of the region. The model is characterized by
the following basic elements:
*   it is sustained by a change agent (the Consortium) which enjoys high credibility among all the
stakeholders;
*   it is based on community and individual participation in the making of decisions about the community's
development, and establishes specific mechanisms for this participation (e.g. the nucleos of the
citizen's network, municipal proposals, and project initiatives);
*   it is based on a methodology that takes into account the capacity and 'initial state' of the citizens, and
from this base initiates the learning and capacity building of community organizations so that they are
able to take charge of their own development.  Further, it recognizes and supports existing
organizations and previous experiences in these communities;
*   it encourages communities to define a long-term  development strategy for their community,
municipality and region, while supporting "learning by doing" around more concrete and immediate
goals and actions;
*   the change agent (Consortium) operates in a decentralized manner;
v  the change agent's staff (Consortium) act consistently in accord with defined values of respect,
transparency, autonomy, and defense of the public interest.
This operational model is not a cookie-cutter approach that can simply be copied elsewhere. There are a
number of critical ingredients in the way the project and larger program of which it is a part are carried out
such as the commitment and dedication of the Consortium's staff which are not easy to reproduce. This
does not reduce the project or program's importance and impact in the Magdalena Medio region, nor in
Colombia as a whole.
Requirements: flexibility and continuous learning. The project demonstrated the need for flexibility and
continuous learning when promoting a participatory approach in such a complex environment, and to
expect a substantial variation in the rate of implementation and development depending on the varied
conditions in different parts of the region. A continuous monitoring and analysis of the evolution of the
socio-political situation at the local, sub-regional, regional and national level is an absolute requirement for
working in the complex and quickly changing environment of conflictive regions in Colombia.
Scaling up. One of the lessons in applying the approach described above was that increasing the capacity
of individuals and communities to take charge of their own development takes more time than originally
expected, particularly to develop their ability to prepare and implement productive investment projects
which translate into increased incomes and better standards of living. Consequently, the original idea that it
would be possible to move directly from the first LIL to a detailed definition and implementation of the full
ten-year investment program (with funding from a traditional loan or adjustable program loan) proved
overly optimistic and ambitious. It should be noted that this is also due to the evolution of the armed
conflict at the regional and national levels which has increased the complexity and risks of scaling up the
program rapidly.
Tensions between the participatory process and technical requirements of preparing and
implementing investment projects. The first external evaluation identified a tension and lack of sufficient
- 15 -



integration between the Consortium's efforts to promote the participatory process of developing a long-term
vision of development led by the nucleos, and the development of investment sub-projects by specific
organizations. While this is likely to remain a continuing tension in a program of this nature, the
Consortium decided to modify its structure to combine in one structure, at the regional and sub-regional
level, the functions of promoting participation/community development and developing specific investment
projects. In this way, these tensions will be recognized and addressed more directly.
Provision of technical assistance in a way that empowers organizations and producers. The
Consortium learned that provision of technical assistance by external experts was effective in building
capacity and empowering organizations when through the process of developing an initiative the
organizations themselves: identified what assistance was required, participated in formulating the terms of
reference for the TA, and were involved in all stages of the study as the counterpart of the entity providing
the technical assistance. The organization and its members thus became the owner of the process and fully
appropriated the results. A good example is the feasibility study for the improvement of cacao production
and marketing which was carried out with producer organizations in 3 municipalities. The Consortium's
role in this process was to identify TA providers with the right capacity and a willingness to work in this
manner, and to accompany the process with its staff. It learned to apply a similar process when it was
providing technical assistance directly. In addition, it developed and used some innovative methods and
tools which proved effective in this regard: the rapid results framework, benchmarking of productive
pTocesses ("referencia competitiva"), and analysis of economic circuits (see Section 4.2).
Productive projects: need for greater rigor and more up-front analysis for more complex projects.
Initially, it was expected that the project would support relatively small and simple investment projects,
with a focus on the social sectors. When the Consortium decided to support the development of more
complex agro-industrial projects which involved producers in more than one municipality, it did not
initially recognize that the development of such projects required a somewhat different process and level of
attention than the smaller projects. However, the Consortium learned that more complex productive
projects such as palm oil, with higher technical requirements, investment cost and risk, required in-depth
and complete feasibility studies prior to embarking on the investment phase. In addition, the Consortium
needed to establish clearer criteria for deciding which projects merit its support in the feasibility stage, and
for determining its role in supporting those projects at the investment stage.
Monitoring and Evaluation in support of continuous learning and empowerment of communities. The
project experience gave a preliminary indication of the appropriateness of the basic concept of the
monitoring, evaluation and learning system for a program like the PDPMM which aims at building social
capital and is being carried out in a highly uncertain environment. However, it proved more challenging
and time consuming than expected to implement the system due to tensions between the "technical" aspects
of the work (quarterly M&E reporting, development of baseline, design of questionnaires etc.) and the
"pedagogical" aspects of the work related to promoting participatory M&E by communities. In hindsight,
to operationalize a M&E system of this kind it is critical to:
* ensure that the M&E and learning system is the responsibility of the entire organization (Consortium in
this case) and woven into the regular business, by defining clearly the M&E responsibilities and roles
of each unit/group in the organizational structure;
*   ensure that the design of the system is understood and endorsed by various units and staff in the
organization and that there is agreement on basic concepts and tools to be used; and
*   monitoring, evaluation and learning should have been made an integral part of the PDPMM's
participatory methodology for developing municipal proposals and initiatives as it is a key tool for
building social capital and empowerment.
- 16-



Project evaluation by a reputable external entity is useful in a conflictive and insecure environment.
The two external evaluations made a useful contribution to this project. While much of what the evaluator
concluded built on or validated observations and findings of the Consortium's M&E unit and team, the
external evaluation was extremely useful particularly because of the strains on the Consortium team due to
their heavy work load and stressful conditions in the region. The external evaluations provided a more
objective perspective; offered a structured moment for the Consortium team, communities and donors to
reflect on and assess how things were going; and provided donors and the Government with an independent
evaluation of progress and achievements.
Sharing of lessons. The Consortium has not been able to fully document and disseminate the wealth of
accomplishments and lessons of the PDPMM, due to the enormous pressures of every day work and
constant crises in the region, and the desire to move the PDPMM forward to generate more benefits. It is
important for the Bank, DNP and the Consortium to explore more deeply, systematize and disseminate the
lessons of this project which are valuable for others in Colombia and the development community at large.
Non-written forms of documenting and communicating these lessons might capture more effectively the
richness of the experience as the most notable achievements relate to the development of human and social
capital. Resources for these activities should be included in the follow-up project.
Partnership: a new way of working. Each of the key financier's of the project--the Bank, DNP,
ECOPETROL, and UNDP--indicated that they have learned to work in a different way both in terms of
their respective institution, and in the relationship of their institution and team with the other partners in the
project. This new way of working was characterized by a shared objective (the PDPMM's long-term goals
and vision), complementarity of contributions, sharing of risks, and recognition and respect for the different
perspectives and objectives of each partner (including dimensions of each partner's work outside the
partnership). The result of the open attitude of each team and investment of time to build this partnership
was a high degree of commitment and ownership of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A translated version of the Borrower's contribution is contained in Annex 8. The National Planning
Department indicated its letter of June 26, 2001 that it agrees with the report. The implementing agency
prepared a series of write-ups on various aspects of the project and lessons learned which are listed in
Annex 7. In his letter of June 25, 2001, the Director of the CDPMM provided the following comments on
the ICR report (translation):
"After having carefully analyzed the ICR, we would like to express to the World Bank our agreement with
the content of the report. We are pleased that the evaluation of implementation, in particular the
performance ratings, is very positive. We consider that this is the result of serious team work of the
citizens of the region, staff of the CDPMM, staff of DNP, Ecopetrol and UNDP, in which all learned and
in which we had the support of an excellent group of professionals from the World Bank.
To complement the report, I would like to emphasize the following points:
* the importance of the project which in function of the lessons learned has motivated the initiation of
other experiences. In effect, with the support of several of the partners of this project (DNP and
UNDP) and inspired by the methodologies of the PDPMM, 9 projects have been started in other parts
of Colombia (Meta, Northeast Antioquia, Southwest Antioquia, North Santander, Cauca Valley,
Cauca, Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Montes de Maria, and Uraba);
*  the constitution of a highly valued team (CDPMM) with a great level of commitment, engagement,
professionalism, and a willingness to assume the risks of working in the midst of the on-going conflict
- 17 -



in the region while taking great care not to put at risk the lives of others involved in the program or the
social sustainability of the process;
*   the synergy achieved by the program in which diverse actors are participating, by overcoming
traditional obstacles for these kinds of actions. That is to say, the methodological approach facilitated
the development of working arrangements at the local, regional and national levels which involved
discussion, consultation and implementation of projects that resolve in practice problems linked to
markets, central planning, political and cultural differences etc.
The ICR report is written in the spirit of the LIL, learning and innovation, and carefully reflects the rich
experiences, increased capacities, achievements and weaknesses. The ICR is not simply a document for
completing the project, it serves as a contribution to the new tasks we must undertake in the near future as
we embark on a new stage of this continuous learning process.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project's key cofinanciers and partners are: (i) UJNDP which in addition to administering the project
funds under a Cost-Sharing Project also provided parallel financing for the project; and (ii) ECOPETROL
the original sponsor of the PDPMM which provided the counterpart funding for the LIL on behalf of the
Government of Colombia. Both prepared written inputs and participated in the ICR Workshop. UNDP
indicated on June 22, 2001 that it did not have any comments on the report. The Director of External
Relations of ECOPETROL in her letter of June 26, 2001 indicates that (translation):
"We have analyzed the content of the document and the evaluation by the Bank team of the components of
the PDPMM, in the context of the first LIL, and we are very satisfied with the report's scope, content and
assessment of the project. We would like to give special emphasis to two points raised in the document: (i)
the issue of the project's sustainability in the face of the armed conflict (last sentence of section 6.1 of
ICR); and (ii) the focus of the project on paving the way for the next phase of the PDPMM."
Annex 9 includes ECOPETROL's contribution to the ICR.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
While other partnerships were formed during the project's implementation, the new partners' comments on
the ICR report have not been requested as their involvement was less direct than those cited above.
10. Additional Information
-18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1. Outcome/Impact Indicators
INDICATOR            ASSESSMENT                            SOURCE
Perception of        Strong confirmation in second external  Two External Evaluation Reports (Feb. 28,
beneficiaries and    evaluation: perception of beneficiaries, and  2000; November 2000), CIDER,
stakeholders that the    others interested in and external to  Universidad de los Andes. Five
program, of which LIL  PDPMIM is that it is functioning well and    municipalities selected for intensive study
is second phase, is  producing results; citizens and authorities   based on criterion of diversity.*
operating satisfactorily  have high level recognition, satisfaction
and that benefits are    and acceptance of PDPMM.
being realized.
No. of partnerships  42 agreements signed with other private  Balance S&E LIL.**
established and      and public entities to develop and finance
resources contributed.  initiatives, resulting in cofinancing of
approximately US$4.1 million.
Financial and human    *  Total of approximately US$6.7 million  Balance S&E LIL.
resources contributed    during LIL to develop and implement
by municipalities and    initiatives/sub-projects, 38% was financed
others to support     by the Consortium and 62% was
subprojects.          cofmanced by other private and public
entities.
*  Cofinancing sources (by % of total
financing for initiatives) were: 23% by
producer associations/communities, 18%
by public sector institutions
(decentralized), 3% by municipalities, 1%
by UNDP, and 9% by others including
several private companies, and NGOs. In
addition, producers obtained credit to
finance the palm oil projects.
Social organization  Far exceeded this goal.                Two External Evaluation Reports.
increased and        *  Extemal Evaluation documents (5     Balance S&E LIL.
strengthened in a least   municipalities studied) important though
5 of the 29           varied achievements in each.
municipalities       *  Creation of new organizations and
strengthening of others particularly
noteworthy in 4 of 8 sub-regions.
*  See results below for citizens network.
* The methodological approach included quantitative and qualitative methods of data gathering such as questionnaires,
group and individual interviews with key informants involved in, related to, or affected by the project, and a thorough
review of key documents.
**The Consortium's M&E of the semi-annual plans included a system of self-evaluation by the unit chiefs and field
staff; and independent assessments in the quarterly M&E reports of the project's evolution in 10 municipalities and for
specific initiatives.
- 19-



Table 2. Output Indicators
COMPONENT/           INDICATOR                ASSESSMENT                       SOURCE
OUTPUT
Component 1.1        Budget implementation    *        Completion of project on   Balance S&E LIL.
Consortium Change   rate vs. planned          time.                            5 Semi-Annual Plans.
Agent                                         *        Progressive improvement
for each Plan, with increase in
expenditures from around
US$235,000 (abbreviated 1st plan),
US$815,440 (2nd plan) to US$1.7
million (5th plan).
Perception of Consortium    Consortium staff and donors   External Evaluation
staff and donors.        recognize significant increase in  Reports.
Consortium's capacity, and its  Quarterly M&E reports.
translation of learning into actions.  Results of ICR Workshop.
Perception of beneficiaries, See impact indicators.      Second External
partners (particularly  * External Evaluations provide strong Evaluation Report.
municipal authorities), and evidence of positive perceptions and  Balance S&E LIL.
general public in the   results.
region: knowledge and   * Given socio-political realities of the
opinion about program,    region, the relations with and
program's image, and    perception of municipal authorities
examples of successes   are varied.
and/or failures.
Component 1.2        Size/composition of the  * Network includes 23 nucleos    Balance S&E LIL.
Citizen's Network    network.                 (operating), 1 organization similar to Second External
a nucleo, 146 organizations and a    Evaluation.
total of 8,625 persons involved and   8th Quarterly M&E
benefiting from PDPMM.          Report.
* 60% of the most influential social
organizations in the municipality are
represented in the nucleo; nearly all
such organizations have cooperative
relations with nucleo (Ext. Eval.).
* Rapid expansion of network in 4 of
the 5 municipalities (Ext.Eval.).
* 10 networks of organizations with
common interests formed of which 7
are considered strong including:
* network of community radios (14
organizations in 14 municipalities,
350 persons),
* regional fisherman council (43
organizations, 14 municipalities, 87
representatives), and
* cacao producers (3 organizations, 5
municipalities, 100 members).
- 20 -



Representation of network  * In 22 municipalities, these  Second External
members in formal citizens participatory forums reactivated and  Evaluation.
forums (such as Municipal operating more effectively with  Balance S&E LIL.
Councils for Rural     support of PDPMM.               Mejoras Practicas.
Development, Municipal   * 16 of the 78 members of the
Planning Councils).    Municipal Planning Councils in 5
municipalities studied are members
of nucleo; however, in one
municipality there are none (Ext.
Eval.).
* Establishment of Regional Planning
System involving 25 municipalities
(later expanded to 33 due to interest
of other municipalities outside
PDPMM) with a board and operating
rules established; first Congress in
May 2000; and participation in
National Planning Conference June
2000.
* Consortium's assessment is that
very significant gains in at least 2
municipalities in terms of impact on
_municipal plans and policy.
Nucleos established and    . 23 of the 29 municipalities have    Balance S&E LIL.
functioning in majority of  nucleos formed and operating
municipalities (number of  regularly with core membership of
nucleos regularly operating 541 persons.
with a nucleo plan).    * all 24 nucleos (one later dissolved)
carried out at least one 6 month plan,
9 carried out 2 plans, and 8 have
done 3; level of satisfaction with
achievements under plans is
correlated with no. carried out.
* 23 monographs on municipal
proposals prepared.
* advances in formulating municipal
proposals qualified as: 0 are very
advanced stage (content converted
into projects in municipal
development plan); 7 municipalities
are advanced (projects have been
defined in plan); 13 are somewhat
advanced (monograph prepared); and
6 are not advanced (no monograph
prepared).
Documented lessons on   See table below.                Quarterly M&E reports.
how to strengthen                                       Mejoras practicas.
community capacity in a                                 Results of ICR Workshop.
context of intense conflict.
- 21 -



Component 2.           % of sub-projects           Total of 67 initiatives financed:  Balance S&E LIL.
Subprojects            implemented with positive   * 33 (49%) judged to have good     Reports project unit.
results.                   prospects and be worth pursuing at
end of LIL; account for 63% of total
funding for subprojects (42% of
Consortium funding for subprojects).
a 18 (27%) should be considered for
continuation if certain conditions met
(build capacity, identify funding,
demonstrate feasability and
sustainability, more TA, armed
conflict); account for 31% of total
funding for subprojects (47% of
Consortium funding for subprojects).
* 16 (24%) with poor prospects for
various reasons (poor technical
viability, conflicts in organization,
armed conflict, or no longer a
priority) of which 2 were cancelled;
accounting for 5% of total funding
for subprojects (11% of Consortium
funding for subprojects.)
Findings concerning         Documented in reports cited; see    Mejoras praticas.
effectiveness of strategies    table below.
and approaches in various
areas such as primary
health and basic education
_____________________  tested under the LIL.    _      _
- 22 -



Table 3. Effectiveness of Strategies and Approaches in Health and Education Sectors
Sector                Quantitative Indicators                 Qualitative Assessment
Health                .  Establishment of 17 user associations.   In the context of a major reform in sector
*  Formulation with community          which had not been translated into action in
During the period        participation of 21 Basic Health Plans   the region, the strategy focused on creating
September 1998-          (PAB) in 21 municipalities.          an informed demand by citizens and
November 1999, the    *  Identification and training of 61    communities for services, and a response by
Ministry of Health       community groups.                    service providers which increases coverage
financed this sector  *  Creation of quality improvement teams  and quality.
strategy; during 2000,   in hospitals in 21 municipalities.
it was financed by the   *  Formulation of institutional      Important achievements realized in areas:
LIL. In addition at the  development plans for 15 local       social control over public health (PAB, local
end of 1998, the         hospitals.                           health plans), and health promotion and
UNPF approved a       *  Training in tools to improve         disease prevention initiatives. Efforts less
project for              management of 23 public health       dynamic for hospital user associations and
reproductive and         providers (IPS).                     oversight of development plans.
sexual health in the  *  Vision health program served 14,000
region which was         children reaching 80/ of the region's   Building on achievements and practical
managed by the           targt      I                         experience during first year, as well as
Consortium.              taget population.fouestde    t.nrvgpblchah
Consortium.     *  Networks created: citizen oversight of   focused studies carried out in 2000, a
health sector (members in 12        regional strategy for improving public health
municipalities), and community  was developed and presented in a document
municipalties), and community      (July 2000) which will guide future actions
initiatives for peaceful coexistence (10 of PDPMM.
women and youth groups concerned
with family violence).       .      Important progress in promoting greater
*  Sexual and reproductive health project:  participation in nucleos of citizens and
groups concerned with these issues  organizations concemed with health
formed and trained in 20            (          .     .  
municipalities, and training of 31             1              .
doctors and 225 health workers,
trainers and community leaders.
Education             *  Promotion of Integrated Basic Schools   Major reforms in the education sector giving
(IBS) concept with an important and  a more important role and responsibilities to
intense process of support in 3 rural  municipalities and educational institutions
municipalities results in creation of 8    had been adopted at the national level but not
working groups, training of 300     translated into action in the region. In
teachers, and 3 projects in various  addition, the PDPMM conceives of
stages of development (see below).  education in a very broad sense and as a
*  Municipality of El Carmen:           force for social development in the region.
Institutional Education Plans (PEI)
prepared for its 77 rural schools; 410  Outstanding achievements in El Carmen with
persons including teachers, parents and  the teachers coming together with the rest of
students develop new curriculum for    the community, and using the schools and
the IBS, contributing to the definition    focus on education as focus for dynamizing
of a Municipal Education Plan which    broader development actions in the
was adopted by municipal authorities.   municipality such as the cacao project. Clear
*  Expansion of education coverage in  impact on municipal development plan.
rural areas of 2 municipalities: 150
students (6th-7.th grade) Landazuri, and    Construction with the communities of an
600 students (6h_,1 Ith grade) El   educational method of learning by doing,
Carmen, with 79 graduates with     instead of classic classroom training
"bachilleres" in 2001.              methods, which can be used in many other
areas for development of the community.
Source: Las Mejores Priticas del Programa de Desarrollo y Paz durante la primera fase PAI, Febrero 2001.
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million                 l
1. Capacity Building for Program Management
1.1 C onsortium as Change Agent and Program Manager   2.62           4.11             157
1.2 Citizen's Network                                 0.50           0.70             140.
2. Sub-Projects
2.1 Technical Assistance for Sub-Project Preparation  0.50            1.02            204
2.2 Sub-Projects                                      2.25            5.65            251
PPF Refinancing                                       0.38            0.40            105
Total Baseline Cost                                   6.25           11.88
Total Project Costs              6.25           11.88
__Total Financing Required                6.25           11.88    __
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
j:                                       Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
2. Goo(0.0ds)     (0.00) ---    0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00         0.05          0.00         0.05
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.05)        (0.00)       (0.05)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          2.84          0.00         2.84
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.84)        (0.00)       (2.84)
4. Miscellaneous:             0.00          0.00         1.90    I    0.00          1.90
Transfers for Nucleo Plans
and Sub-Projects
I______________________ Z (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.90)        (0.00)   (10.90)
5. Miscellaneous:             0.00    I    0.00          0.83          0.00         0.83
Operating Costs              (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.83)        (0.00)       (0.83)
6. PPF Repayment              0.00          0.00         0.38          0.00         0.38
____________________    l (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.38)        (0.00)       (0.38)
Total                      0.00          0.00          6.00         0.00         6.00
(0.00)    j   (0.00)       (5.00)        (0.00)       (5.00)
See explanation of footnotes 1 and 2 below in next table. Additional note: This table only includes the loan and
counterpart funds.
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCBe          thr            N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.07           0.00           0.07
(0.00)         (0.00)                        (0.00)        (0.05)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           2.47           0.00           2.47
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.07)         (0.00)        (2.07)
4. Miscellaneous:                0.00           0.00           1.84           0.00           1.84
Transfers for Nucleo Plans
and Sub-Projects
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.50)         (0.00)        (1.50)
5. Miscellaneous:                0.00           0.00           1.23           0.00           1.23
Operating Costs                 (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.99)        (0.00)         (0.99)
6. PPF Repayment                 0.00           0.00           0.39           0.00           0.39
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.39)         (0.00)        (0.39)
Total                         0.00           0.00           6.00           0.00           6.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)        (5.00)
Additional note: This table only includes the loan and counterpart funds.
Figures in parenthesis are the amnounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Applicable "Other" Procurement Methods specified in loan agreement for this project are: Expenditure Category 2
Goods-Shopping procedures; Consultant Services-Category 2 in accord with Consultant Guidelines; and Category
4-Transfers in accord with procedures in Operating Manual.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Capacity Building for
Program Management
1.1 Consortium as Change  2.32      0.30                 2.75       0.83      0.53    118.5  276.7
Agent and Program
Manager
1.2 Citizen's Network     0.30      0.20                 0.32       0.12      0.26    106.7   60.0
Sub-Total                 2.62      0.50                 3.07       0.95      0.79    117.2  190.0
2. Sub-Projects
2.1 Technical Assistance  0.25      0.25                 0.18       0.29      0.54     72.0   116.0
for Sub-Project
Preparation
2.2 Sub-Projects          1.75      0.50                 1.35       0.70      3.60     77.1   140.0
Sub-Total                 2.00      0.75                 1.53       0.99      4.14     76.5   132.0
PPF Refinancing           0.38      0.00                 0.40       0.00      0.00    105.3   0.0
TOTAL                     5.00       1.25                5.00   li.95         4.93    100.0  156.0
This table includes additional funds raised during the course of the project amounting to US$4.93 million which
were impossible to estimate at appraisal. Most was for cofinancing of sub-projects by diverse sources including
comrnunities, municipal and departmental governments, central government agencies, the private sector etc.
Excluded is credit obtained by producer organizations.
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this LIL.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc)  -   Imlementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Ojective
Identificatfon/Preparation
August 1996                  6   Agricultural Economist
Lawyer (Res Rep, CO)
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sector specialist (CO)
Sociologist
January 1997                 9   Agricultural Economist
Lawyer (Res Rep, CO)
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Livestock specialist
2 Sociologists
Agronomist
April 1997                   1   Sociologist/M&E Expert
May 1997                     5   Lawyer (Res Rep, CO)
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Livestock specialist
September/1997               5   Agricultural Economist
Sociologist/M&E Expert
Lawyer (CO)
NGO/social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Project Officer (CO)
October 1997                 5   Agricultural Economist
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Project Officer (CO)
November 1997                1   Sociologist/M&E Expert
December 1997                1   Agricultural Economist
- 27 -



Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1998                    7   Agricultural Economist
Financial Mgt Specialist
Procurement Analyst
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Project Officer (CO)
Supervision
January 1999                  2   Natural Res. Mgt. specialist          S             S
(CO)
Livestock Expert
May 1999                      2   Sociologist/M&E Expert                S              S
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
April/May 1999                1   Project officer/rural dev (CO)        S             S
June 1999                     1   Financial Mgt Specialist              S              S
July 1999                     2   Economist/MBA                         S             S
Project officer/rural dev (CO)
September 1999                2   Economist/MBA                         S             S
Project officer/rural dev (CO)
November 1999                 2   Economist/MBA                         S              S
Project officer/rural dev (CO)
January 2000                  2   Economist/MBA                         S              S
Project officer/rural dev (CO)
March 2000                    8   Agricultural Economist               HS              S
NGO/ Social development
specialist (CO)
Economist/MBA
Infrastructure specialist (CO)
Social sectors specialist (CO)
Project Officer/rural dev (CO)
Natural Res. Mgt. (CO)
October 2000                  4   Agricultural Economist               HS              S
Economist/MBA
Project Officer/rural dev (CO)
NGO/ Social development
specialist (CO)
ICR
December 2000                 5    Agricultural Economist              HS              S
NGO/Social development
specialist (CO)
Project Officer/rural dev
(CO)
Sociologist/M&E expert
Operations-New Lending
Instnunents specialist
The project team was primarily composed of staff from the Colombia office (CO).
- 28 -



Project supervision was characterized by regular contacts with the Consortium and a high involvement of staff
based in Colombia.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               66.0                        167.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                    16.0                         47.5
Supervision                              62.0                        167.5
ICR                                      12.0                         39.0
Total                                   156.0                       421.9
- 29-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
C Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0Physical                                  OH OSUOM ON *NA
0 Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
M Other (Please specify)            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social CapitaUCommunity Driven
Development
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0] Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                   * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Learning Objectives
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
B Lending                                            *HS OS OU OHU
I Supervision                                        *HS OS   OU  OHU
 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U  O HU
I Government implementation performance              * HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
1 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Centro Interdisciplinario de Estudios Regionales (CIDER), Universidad de los Andes, Evaluaci6n
Intermedia Extema Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio," 2 volumes, February 28, 2000.
Centro Interdisciplinario de Estudios Regionales (CIDER), Universidad de los Andes, "Segunda Fase de la
Evaluaci6n Intermedia Extema," 3 volumes, November 2000.
Consorcio Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, Equipo S&E, "Octavo Informe Trimestral" (8th
Quarterly M&E Report), Periodo Enero-Junio de 2000.
Consorcio Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, Equipo de S&E, "La Construcci6n de un Sistema de
Seguimiento, Evaluacion y Aprendizaje," November 2000.
Consorcio Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, 0. Gutierrez Lemus, "Balance General Seguimiento y
Evaluaci6n Etapa de Aprendizaje e Innovaci6n LIL 1998-2000," February 2001.
Consorcio Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, "Las Mejores Practicas del Programa de Desarrollo y
Paz Durante la Primera Fase PAI," February 2001.
Consorcio Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, Unidad de Proyectos, "Informe Final de Iniciativas,"
February 2001.
Robert H. Schaffer, "Beginning with results: the key to success," The Journal for Ouality and Participation
; September 1997.
Robert H. Schaffer and Harvey A. Thomson, "Successful Change Programs Begin with Results," Harvard
Business Review. January-February 1992.
World Bank, Lina Maria Garcia, "El Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio: Elementos
constitutivos para la elaboraci6n de una propuesta en otras regiones," November 2000.
World Bank, Arturo Garcia Duran, Ivan Dario Chain, and Jose Nelson Camelo, "Notas de una Viaje: La
Aventura del Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalana Medio, vista desde algunas de sus initiativas
productivas," November 2000.
World Bank, E. Garfield, Back-to-Office Report on ICR Mission dated December 14, 2000 with
Attachment 1 "Aide Memoire Misi6n de Terminaci6n del Proyecto" and Attachment 2 "Memorias del
Taller de Evaluacion de Aprendizajes-Proyecto de Desarrollo Regional del Magdalena Medio (Prestamo
4371-CO)."
World Bank, A. Rudqvist, Back-to-Office Report on ICR Mission-Monitoring and Evaluation System
dated December 17, 2001.
World Bank, L. Sontheimer (OCKOS), Back to Office Report on LIL ICR Mission dated January 1, 2001.
World Bank, Anders Rudqvist, "Monitoring and Evaluation in the Context of Learning and Innovation,
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project in Colombia," February 2001.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Presented by the National Planning Department
(translated from Spanish)
1.  Introduction
The Magdalena Medio Development and Peace Program (PDPMM), funded during the 1998 - 2000
period through a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) from the World Bank to the Nation, has operated
with a novel plan through which various entities have participated by contributing their technical and
financial resources to start up a social process of regional development and peaceful co-existence in the
Magdalena Medio region. In this arrangement, the National Planning Department (DNP), is the
institution responsible for the loan that the Nation has taken out; the Consortium for Development and
Peace Magdalena Medio (CDPMM), made up of the association between the Catholic Diocese of
Barrancabermeja and the Center for Research and Popular Education (CINEP), is the regional body to
whom DNP delegated the implementation of the Project; ECOPETROL is the State agency that assumed
the financial commitment for the Nation to provide counterpart funds; and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) is the organization responsible for management of the project funds.
For the DNP, in reality this Program summarizes in merely one experience the elements that, in the
National Development Plan, the Government has considered elements which make it possible to generate
conditions of peaceful co-existence in the process of building real conditions for peace:
     Promotion of Strategic Alliances: This Program exemplifies the strategic alliance approach in
which, upon reaching a consensus on an objective, different actors such as the civil society, the Church,
and the Government are convened. Under this scheme, the State is involved as merely one of several actors
within the whole process; it plays the role of facilitator among this broader group of actors in which the
functions of using and managing the project resources, and implementing the strategy is delegated to other
organizations. Moreover, through productive initiatives that become investment projects, the PDPMM in
fact encourages making alliances that involve all of the sectors that form part of the production chain.
     Strengthening social capital is an indispensable requirement for creating conditions for peace in
the regions, and that is precisely what the PDPMM has been promoting. The Consortium is an entity that
generates trust both through putting resources to work, and through creating spaces for interchange of
resources, knowledge, capacity building and other support to communities. Along the same lines, the
promotion of spaces for community participation and the effort made to involve the communities in issues
relating to municipal planning are fundamental elements for achieving real institutional development, and
thus building social capital.
     Decentralization. From the point of view of decentralization which is a Government priority, this
Program is an example of civilian society's participation in public management, because the way the
program is carried out promotes strengthening the effective power of citizens and the sharing of
responsibility with public and private entities for social, economic, and environmental development. In
addition, the PDPMM exemplifies the efficient management of public resources by a regional organization
made up of a consortium of non-public entities that assume responsibility for building responsive public
institutions and civic values in the region (lo publico), by helping citizens change their attitude towards the
public sector to one of actors whose activities contribute to the common good and who are responsible for
rebuilding the social fabric, based on trust in and cooperation with the public administration.
- 33 -



2.  Institutional Aspects
The National Technical Committee is responsible for coordinating the entities involved in the
implementation of the project (the Consortium, DNP, UTNDP and ECOPETROL) and for orienting and
overseeing the project's implementation in accord with the project's guidelines and methodology. It meets
twice a year to evaluate the project's performance based on monitoring and evaluation reports, external
audits, the external evaluation reports, and regular field visits made by the DNP. In addition, the
Committee discusses and approves the semi-annual plans submitted by the Consortium which served as a
budgeting and planning tool which took into account the particular difficulties of the regional context.
In regard to the project and PDPMM, DNP has played a technical role as well as a broader strategic role
regarding policy-making, as described below.
(i) Regarding technical support, as representative of the Borrower, the DNP has processed with the
Ministry of Finance the project disbursement requests based on the submission by the Consortium and
UNDP of justification for expenses made, in order to ensure permanent liquidity of funds for the Project.
In this regard, DNP has worked in constant coordination with the Consortium, verifying the Project
expense statements and implementation performance. Because this is a Project agreement in which various
entities participate, many formalities and steps are required to process disbursements, and that has meant
constant coordination between the Consortium and the DNP.
As can be expected, we have had to overcome some difficulties in coordination especially between the
technical unit and the unit in charge of budget inside the DNP, and among those same two units and the
systems unit of the Ministry of Finance, and also the different units in the World Bank. In spite of all of
this, upon ending this Project, we can say that communications and information problems, which at first
caused delay in processing steps, have been overcome. However, for the follow-up project, we need to
create an even more effective strategy for circulating information.
The DNP has participated more actively than just supervising the performance reports in the meetings of
the National Technical Committee. Its participation in the meetings of the Consortium's Steering
Committee (Equipo de Conduccion) in Barrancabermeja has enabled DNP to follow more closely the
evolution of the Project, facilitating a better understanding of the complex process in the region. The
initiative to involve the project's partners in field visits is a good way to materialize the commnitment of
these entities to use a common language and to give them the possibility of creating synergy to act and
make decisions together when faced with situations that require a timely reaction.
(ii) Regarding policy-making, the DNP's relation with the process resulting from the Program in the region
has had a much greater scope than the one initially contemplated. The National Development Plan
acknowledges the PDPMM as an experience that contributes some lessons for policy-making in the area of
regional peaceful co-existence experiences and in the area of regional development in the midst of conflict.
Thus, within the priority area of building conditions for peace, priority is given to programs and projects
that are born from regional initiatives that count on the broad participation of the civilian society and whose
main objectives are rebuilding the weakened social fabric in conflict zones, strengthening local and regional
institutions proposed by the communities, and obtaining the consensus of various sectors on some minimum
set of collective objectives. In addition, based on the PDPMM experience, priority would be given to
implementation strategies in which alliances are made among the public sector, the Church, and NGOs,
depending on their representativeness and on the particular conditions of each region.
In addition, DNP has worked on making the productive projects identified in the Program and by the
- 34 -



communities viable and presented them to donor meetings of representatives of the international community
who are interesting in supporting the peace process in Colombia. Thus, thanks to the prior work of
coordinating the identification and start-up of these projects in the region, the Government has given them
priority for funding with resources from the Fund for Investments in Peace; the Consortium is the
implementing agency in the best position to serve as mediator between the Central Government, the
organizations, and the local governments.
3. Meeting Objectives
From DNP's perspective, the process initiated in this learning and innovation phase of the PDPMM has
been correctly focused on meeting the objectives agreed upon when the Project was being formulated. We
must keep in mind that this project follows the logic of generating learning and that the broader program
objectives with broad regional coverage are seen as a ten year endeavor. In this sense, the PDPMM has
generated more learning than what was initially foreseen, because the behavior of the Project in the field
has been widely accepted by the communities and the organizations which in the region's conflictive
environment has been a fundamental aspect for ensuring its viability. Based on this fact, it has become
evident that the PDPMM has been able to develop an innovative strategy and methodology that have
enabled it to maintain its autonomy and legitimacy in the scenario of conflict that pervades this region.
So, if we take into account the main objective "Develop the operational capacity of the Consortium, of the
Citizen's Network, and of other partners to work together towards jointly defined objectives, seeking to
reduce poverty and increase peaceful co-existence in the Magdalena Medio region", then we have met the
objective, from the perspective of the real capacity that the Consortium has acquired as an entity that
manages the PDPMM and empowers the communities. The start-up of projects that are productive, that are
education- and health-oriented, that can co-exist successfully in some municipalities and communities
indicates that each process perceived as "successful" must be documented, so that its methodology can be
used in the second phase of the process to expand the scope and achieve more widespread impacts.
Furthermore, for the DNP it is clear that the Consortium's capacity to manage resources transparently and
efficiently has been more than proven during the two years that the Project has been in operation, because it
was able to use all of the loan resources in the allotted timeframe (see Chart #1). In addition, the
Consortium has been able to mobilize additional resources for the region in an amount similar to the
amount mobilized by the Learning and Innovation Project. A demonstration of confidence in the
transparent management of the resources by the organizations in the region occurred in 1998 when the
Government and rural leaders signed the agreements that ended the peasant exodus, during which the
Government committed to fund the creation of an integrated plan for the S. Bolivar region. There was
mutual agreement to let the Consortium manage the resources.
- 35 -



Chartl
Eecucion Programa de Desarrollo y Paz de
Magdalena Medlo
::                                                       X
Source: Official documents confirming disbursements against resources authenticated by the
IBRD.
As to developing the Citizen's Network, we need to continue learning because, even though in some
municipalities there is a nucleo of inhabitants that is representative and has generated planning processes
which are contributing to citizenry and participation in the municipality, in other rnunicipalities the process
is barely beginning and there is much to be done.
For DNP as well as for the other partners in this process, it is clear that the proof of the Consortium's
transfer of its capacity to the region must be expressed in municipal life i.e. the active presence and
participation of the communities that make up the civil society who exercise their role as citizens in the
municipal scenario. Using that measuring stick, although we acknowledge that important progress has been
made in this field, it is clear that much learning is still needed to convene groups and build up civic life (lo
publico) in municipal scenarios and especially in those where the presence of conflict and the resulting
polarization reduces the inhabitants' capacity to exercise their role as citizens and willingness to become
involved in the municipality as the arena for attending to collective interests.
I# of Initiatives/ Ongoing Sub-Projects        I        62
# of Operating Nuclei of Inhabitants                   23
Lessons Learned
Territoriality / Integrality
One of the advantages that the PDPMM has, as compared to other intervention strategies or programs
promoted by the Central Government, is that this is a process conceived and implemented from the region
itself by a group of legitimate actors to lead a process of social mobilization and construction. When the
learning and innovation stage started up, ample work in participatory diagnosis and analysis had already
been done which meant that the inhabitants already had good knowledge of the Program. But even more
importantly, the Program that is being created is the result of what was discussed and gathered from
consulting with the communities. That is why, the components, strategies, objectives, and tools are the
result of a phase of consensus-building with many of the inhabitants in the region. Therefore, the Program
- 36 -



is not perceived as something alien to the organizations, but rather as something that was based on their
reality and in which they were involved.
On this point, we also wish to highlight how important it is that those who led the implementation of this
process should be leaders who have previously worked on this type of project and who have a good track
record with the social organizations in the region.
Moreover, the PDPMM considers the problem of sustainable human development and of building public
awareness/civic values from an integrated, holistic point of view in which both during the diagnostic stage
and the implementation, the transversal nature and not the sectoral nature of development is considered.
That is why the Program promotes and encourages reflection in the communities with an integrated
perspective of how the inhabitants perceive their reality, discouraging lists of investment projects and
motivating a broader reflection regarding "processes" among the communities.
Flexibility of the Implementing Organization / Transitory Nature
One of the most significant things that the DNP has learned is that promoting regional development and
building conditions for peace in a region may be led by a regional entity using public funds. This
arrangement permits great flexibility for both effective resource management and a more fluid interlocution
with communities. The Consortium's work is a good example of this. Not only was the program created in
the region, but also the inhabitants feel that they are working with an entity that they do not identify as
antagonistic or easily stigmatized by some of the parties to the conflict.
This organization expresses its flexibility by incorporating into its planning the results of the
self-evaluation that the Consortium constantly makes and this enables it to reformulate its actions and
restructure itself based on the requirements of the processes and projects in the region. That is how we have
clearly gone from a centralized strategy in which decisions are made in Barrancabermeja to a strategy that
allows more decentralization and more participation by the sub-regional actors and leaders in
decision-making, with a more territorial and complete vision. The Consortium operates with a horizontal
decision-making strategy that enables the communities' concerns regarding the everyday workings of the
projects to become issues that are incorporated into the planning and the direction of the Program's
implementation in the field.
We also see flexibility in the Consortium's work to accompany communities in the development process.
This task is carried out based on the communities reality and on their degree of organization. In this
manner, initiatives are born based on the actual capabilities of the organizations and the share of resources
set aside for these initiatives adjusts to this fact.
4.  Evaluation of Bank's Performance
Project Preparation Stage:
During the Project preparation stage, the Bank's role was important as it illustrated other Learning and
Innovation Project experiences that had been implemented in other parts of the world. The Bank transferred
its knowledge of the lessons learned in other experiences and this provided enough material to evaluate the
relevancy of choosing the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) mode. As of the preparation stage, with the
Bank team, the implementing agency and the Consortium, created a joint work team with a permanent and
collective work style.
Project Supervision Stage:
The Bank constantly supervised the Project, periodically emphasizing the sectors and issues that are
relevant, such as Education, Health, Economy, Monitoring, and Evaluation, etc. Along these lines, this
supervision made important contributions to the implementation of the Program and at the same time
- 37 -



broadened the knowledge that the Bank officials had of the Program. Some of the Bank officials'
supervision visits were made directly in the field and there we had proof that this kind of direct follow-up
with the communities that benefit from the Program definitely improves the perception that the officials
have of the Program compared to when they only read documents. That is why it is important to emphasize
the relevancy and effectiveness of the supervision that the Bank does directly in the field.
The Bank's Overall Performance:
The Bank performed positively during the development of the whole operation. From a technical point of
view, we were able to make up a work team with the participation of all of the partners and Bank officials
in an atmosphere of trust and of permanent building, in the general spirit of learning that the Project always
has had. Since this is a learning and innovation process, it would be fruitful for the Bank to continue
adopting norms and administration mechanisms that are increasingly flexible, for a project with these
characteristics.
5.  Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
Implementation:
From the point of view of the Government's project implementation strategy, this Project was considered a
priority, given the importance of this Program in building an experience that can be replicated to generate
favorable conditions for peace in this region and in others that have high levels of conflict. That is why, the
National Development Plan incorporates the criteria and the progress made while preparing the learning
and innovation phase of the Magdalena Medio Development and Peace Program.
Borrower's Overall Performance:
The National Planning Department's performance as the party responsible to the Nation for the loan was
positive, taking into account that the Learning and Innovation mode was new for our country and for this
agency. The execution of the loan was delegated to the Consortium for Development and Peace Magdalena
Medio who performed positively within the framework of the Learning and Innovation (LIL) Project,
acquiring a growing capacity both administratively and technically to develop the Project in the Magdalena
Medio territory. The coordination between DNP and the CDPMM of the project's implementation was
done using a work strategy of permanent communication and of collaborative work; this made it possible to
carry out the work required for processing disbursements with the Ministry of Finance and with the Bank in
a timely fashion most of the time.
Perfornance of the Partners Who Participated in Project Implementation and Execution:
The United Nations Development Program played a role that went beyond resource management. This
organization contributed added value to the Project by being present in the region; it installed an office in
Barrancabermeja. Moreover, it contributed resources to the Project that represented an additional 15% to
the loan resources and this helping make some of the sub-projects in the field a reality. The UNDP
contribution was very significant in a region with a high degree of armed conflict such as this one. Working
jointly with this United Nations agency gave the Project support and a sense of neutrality as far as the
armed actors are concerned.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 9. ECOPETROL's Contribution to the ICR
Lessons Learned by ECOPETROL regarding the LIL-PDPMM
This learning relates to the achievements obtained by the PDPMM which largely corroborate the results
expected from the hypotheses proposed for the general objectives of the LIL. Assessment of the project has led
ECOPETROL to propose, for the second phase, the need to disseminate this learning among ECOPETROL's
directors and operating units in all areas of influence, as well as the need to transfer the methodology to the
management and policies for the company's external relations.
Analyzing the hypotheses and achievements of the PDPMM-LIL, the lessons learned were as follows:
HYPOTHESIS-THE CONSORTIUM AS CHANGE AGENT: A CHANGE AGENT ACTING AS A
CATALYST, UNDERSTOOD AS A PROMOTER, MANAGER OF PARTNERSHIPS, PROVIDER OF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WHO SELECTIVELY PARTICIPATES IN THE FINANCING OF
INITIATIVES, HAS A GREATER IMPACT ON PARTICIPATORY DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES
THAN DOES AN AGENT THAT MERELY EXECUTES PROGRAMS.
ACHIEVEMENT. Greater regional management capacity of both the Consorcio de Desarrollo y Paz del
Magdalena Medio and the citizens network. The achievement in this area is considered to be HIGH and the
following impact assessment has been offered:
*   Greater number of citizens and community organizations mobilized around program objectives as
well as planning and executing development initiatives. The program has worked with communities
based on their expectations and interests, and has defined collectively 83 initiatives which seek to reduce
poverty and increase peaceffil coexistence. It has also raised the credibility of the program and its possible
results among the communities.
*   More public and private entities are committed to the region. This is reflected in the participation of
government agencies and programs (National Planning Council, the ministries of defense, mines and
energy, and the interior, the National Planning Department, Plan Colombia, Incora, Plante, Finagro,
Ferrovias, Banco Agrario); as well as that of private entities (Coca-Cola, Compafiia Nacional de
Chocolates, National Federation of Coffee Growers, palm oil companies, palm grower associations, the "
Antioquia Syndicate," Diocese of Sons6n, ISA, Medellin Public Utility Companies), universities, volunteer
technical personnel from ECOPETROL, and international agencies (UNDP, CEPAL, United States
Embassy, British Embassy).
*   More public and private funding for the program. The program has been able to generate 2.5 times the
resources it started out with, as the current amount invested reaches 27 billion pesos.
*   General acceptance of the Consortium by all actors. With some exceptions, in general terms the leaders
of the arned parties or those outside the law respect the initiatives, the communities participating in the
projects, the projects themselves, and some have committed to facilitating the development of the program.
The origin of this result and its achievement represents for ECOPETROL a learning experience for
regarding the following:
(1) Recognition of the program as a mechanism useful in: facilitating the participation of a greater number of
citizens in leadership and regional development processes, accompaniment and participation by other
- 39 -



institutions, construction of shared objectives, channeling of international cooperation resources, supplementing
and accompanying regional development programs, identifying the real- problems communities have and their
ability to propose their own initiatives and/or development projects to improve their quality of life, making
technology and knowledge available to the communities for their development;
(2) Acknowledgment of new methodologies and new ways of relating, understanding and working with
communities, and (3) Recognition of the capacity of the community to become involved in a positive manner in
the formulation of alternatives for its own development.
Based on this experience, in the immediate future ECOPETROL may implement new ways of:
(1) Accompanying the formulation and development of regional programs;
(2) Building common objectives with the surrounding environment;
(3) Facilitating participation by a greater number of citizens in leadership and regional development processes
and leveraging and generating resources;
(4) Channeling international cooperation resources towards the regions;
(5) Seeking the accompaniment and synergy with other institutions;
(6) Facilitating the participation of ECOPETROL's workers (with the support of Equipo de Conduccion del
CDPMM), in providing assistance to development projects and programs focused on overcoming poverty and
improving the quality of life of inhabitants in their areas of influence, as part of the fulfillment of the their
social responsibility;
(7) Implementing this methodology through formal participation mechanisms, thus making it possible for the
community to develop improved leadership skills, increase its participation in the construction of the region and
generate a propositional comnnunity culture;
(8) Further involving community participation, not only in terms of submitting proposals for projects but also
regarding prior stages (initiatives and maturation) pursued by the program on the basis of the step by step
methodology.
HYPOTHESIS-THE CITIZEN'S NETWORK AS THE BASIS FOR PROGRAM'S
PARTICIPATORY PLANNING AND AS A VEHICLE FOR INTERNAL COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN INHABITANTS: THE CREATION AND THE ACTIVITIES OF THE CITIZEN'S
NETWORK BECOMES THE PRINCIPAL INSTRUMENT USED TO STRENGTHEN CIVIL SOCIETY
AND PROMOTE CLOSER TIES BETWEEN IT AND INSTITUTIONS, THEREBY INCREASING THE
INFLUENCE OF CITIZENS IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS.
This increase is reflected in the following:
*   Greater number of individuals, grassroots and non-governmental organizations and/or informal
groups linked to the nucleos. More than 1,000 inhabitants participate in the nucleos in 26 municipalities.
The young, women, men, peasant associations, shopkeepers, bakers, fishermen, potters, miners, coffee
growers, milk producers, sugar cane and rice growers, lumber producers, and educational community
organizations participate in the formulation of initiatives, and over 10,000 individuals will participate in
training programs.
*   Greater influence by organized citizens on public affairs. Among all initiatives currently underway,
45% (38 of 83) are related to: the construction of public life (15), education (7) and fishing and the
environment (19).
*   The planning system is strengthened by means of citizen participation. All initiatives are collectively
created. Advice and accompaniment have been provided for the process of formulating, discussing and
approving of municipal land use plans, emphasizing participatory construction. Local planning councils
- 40 -



have been strengthened, ensuring citizen participation in the POT (Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial - Land
Use Plans) and the community participates in monitoring development plans.
* Greater flow and use of public and private resources. The resources sought and approved for
development of initiatives (sub-projects) jointly with public, private and international cooperation
institutions reach 27.4 billion pesos.
*   Respect for the PDPMM by the parties in conflict. The defense of the right to life and the gains made
concerning work conducted by and for the poorest inhabitants of the region have led the CDPMM staff and
community members who are participating in the initiatives to be viewed with respect in the majority of
cases, except for instances where statements made regarding the different armed players have failed to
maintain a balance.
*   Greater satisfaction and optimism on the part of citizens. Empowerment of the community by way of
its initiatives, which become life projects and which have allowed them to shift from neutrality towards
autonomy vis-a-vis the armed players.
* Greater trust among alliance partners.
HYPOTHESIS-ON THE CITIZEN'S NETWORK AS AGENT IN CHARGE OF IMPLEMENTING
INITIATIVES: A DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM BASED ON LOCAL INITIATIVES WITH A HIGH
DEGREE OF PARTICIPATION BY ORGANIZED CITIZENS STRENGTHENS THE SKILLS OF THE
CITIZENS AND PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF SOCIAL CAPITAL.
ACHIEVEMENT. Increase in the number of economic and social initiatives directed by the inhabitants. This
is rated as HIGH and the impact has been assessed according to the following elements described below.
The program has facilitated dissemination of information in the communities for the development of each
initiative. It has also worked on the technical dimensions of the initiatives and work of the nucleos, in addition
to strengthening the capacity to accomplish the following:
i  Identify and formulate new productive projects that generate employment not only in the oil-related sector
but also in other sectors of the economy as well.
*  Identify and initiate development of new businesses.
*   Acknowledge deficiencies in capacity so as to generate an entrepreneurial spirit and culture.
*   Identify the potential inherent in the region's wealth.
*   Generate its own occupations and new sources of work.
*   Prioritize initiatives and transform them into viable projects based on the agreements reached in the
nucleos.
*   Channeling its own contributions as well as those of the authorities and public and private organizations.
The origins of these results and the results themselves represent a learning experience for ECOPETROL
in the following areas:
(1) Generating a diverse business culture in the company's areas of influence, not only in terms of the oil
industry but regarding other economic sectors as well. Based on knowledge of the region's potential, this
culture makes it possible to identify and formulate new productive projects that generate employment and
initiate new business development.
(2) Strengthening community training programs on culture, the entrepreneurial spirit and productive projects.
-41 -



(3) Its participation should not consist exclusively of an economic contribution.
(4) Promoting the participation of its workers, with whose knowledge it would be possible to generate major
contributions to the business and industrial development of the regions and their communities.
(5) The participation of territorial entities as part of its participation in the resolution of the unemployment
problem.
Based on this experience, ECOPETROL may in the immediate future implement new ways of achieving
the following:
(1) Supporting the identification and formulation of new productive projects which generate jobs.
(2) Strengthening economic development programs in the regions comprising its area of influence, via the
contribution of the knowledge of its workers in accompanying communities for business and social
development.
(3) Generating a diverse business culture in the company's areas of influence, not only related to the industry
but also to other economic sectors.
(4) Supporting the start of new business developments.
(5) Strengthening awareness of the region's potential.
(6) Promoting a greater degree of participation by territorial entities in accompanying initiatives, inclusion of
initiatives in development plans and in the creation of educational, technical and financial tools for project
development.
ACHIEVEMENT: Increased acceptance of the participatory approach to development and peace promoted
by the program. Its impact is considered to be HIGH and its results originate in the following:
(I) Its work is based on the opinions, interests and priorities of the citizens.
(2) Consensus is arrived at jointly with the community.
(3) Formulation of initiatives is based on community interests.
(4) The support! accompaniment of a team of technical assistance promoters.
(5) The discussion of the initiative with municipalities is based on long term development and peace objectives.
(6) The creation of nucleos which promote community mobilization.
(7) The promotion of this approach among nucleos, grassroots organizations, NGOs, public entities,
businesses, business associations and local leaders, government, academic and business circles, as well as
among specialists in participatory development.
These results and the achievements themselves represent a learning experience for ECOPETROL in the
following areas:
(1) Knowledge of the participatory approach to development and peace.
(2) Joint agreement with municipalities on long term development and peace initiatives. However, we consider
links to the local administration as weak.
(3) Acceptance and promotion of this approach to development and peace by the members of the participating
community organizations, representatives of grassroots organizations, NGOs, public entities and regional
business organizations, associations and union leaders; and at the national level, in government, academic and
business circles.
(4) Strengthening of the ECOPETROL's corporate principle of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, not only in
terms of its application in conflict areas subject, but also as a central element of company policy which
recognizes development needs and elements in its neighboring communities which, jointly worked on without
pretending to supplant the responsibility of the state, significantly alleviates adverse community circumstances
which could otherwise become law and order situations that affect the stability of companies and further
-42 -



negatively affect community development.
In the future, based on this experience ECOPETROL may build its relationship with the surrounding
community.
* ECOPETROL may promote and use this approach with the institutions it has relationships with in its work
with the surrounding community.
* ECOPETROL may use the participatory approach for peace and development, reaching agreements with
municipalities on long-term peace and development initiatives.
SECTOR HYPOTHESES
REGARDING ECONOMIC ISSUES: GENERATING THE BUSINESS CAPABILITIES REQUIRED TO
DESIGN AND IMPLEMENT CROSS-SECTIONAL STRATEGIES (FINANCING, BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY, ACCESS TO
LAND AND IMPROVED LAND USE) MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR THE PROGRAM TO ADVANCE
ECONOMIC PROCESSES CAPABLE OF REMOVING OBSTACLES TO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
This capacity is reflected in: (1) The development of 40 productive initiatives (48% of the total currently
underway) related to marketing, industrial development, rural productive development and urban productive
development that create economic opportunities for the poorest inhabitants; (2) More peasant families with the
financing, technology and business capabilities required to pursue productive initiatives. Nevertheless,
development of the land ownership component is very limited.
REGARDING  EDUCATIONAL  MATTERS:  THE  EDUCATIONAL  COMMUNITIES
PARTICIPATING IN INTEGRATED TRAINING PROCESSES LEARN TO DEVELOP THEIR
PEDAGOGICAL PRACTICES AND THROUGH THEM, THEIR INTELLECTUAL POTENTIAL, IN
ORDER TO ACCESS AND APPROPRIATE KNOWLEDGE AND TRANSFORM IT INTO AN
EFFECTIVE TOOL USED TO TRANSFORM REALITY.
This effectiveness may be seen in the capacity communities developed in the community training, the training
school for the young, comprehensive basic schools for sustainable development, and the education citadel, all of
which seek to build participatory educational communities to enable the reconstruction of new educational
social relationships in the midst of the conflict.
REGARDING HEALTH CARE: COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT,
AS PART OF A PLAN THAT SEEKS TO BUILD THE PUBLIC ENVIRONMENT BY MAKING USE OF
LOCAL POTENTIAL, CONTRIBUTES TO PROGRESSIVELY IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND
EFFICIENCY OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES
This contribution is reflected in:
*   Community participation in the decisions regarding the administration of health care resources.
* Its positive effect on the promotion and preventive health and in a broader subsidized health care coverage.
- 43 -



INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND CULTURE: ADVANCES MADE IN THE CAPACITY
OF THE NUCLEOS TO INVESTIGATE, PRODUCE AND ISSUE THEIR OWN INFORMATION,
VALUES AND ACHIEVEMENTS STRENGTHENS THE CAPACITY OF THE REGION TO IMAGINE
ITSELF, SOCIALIZE ITS OWN MODELS, PROJECT TO THE NATION, INCREASE ITS
PARTICIPATION IN DECISIONS REGARDING ITS OWN DEVELOPMENT AND REACH
DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE OBJECTIVES BY BUILDING A COLLECTIVE MIND-SET OF
BELONGING TO A REGION.
This strengthening is reflected in the following: Greater ability to produce and issue information about the
region in the conventional and local media.
Note: The health, communication and culture sector hypotheses lack strong supporting elements as well as
learning experiences by ECOPETROL. They have been given a low rating during the monitoring conducted by
the external evaluation.
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






r                     ~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA                                                             x  AGRICULTURA               biAGUAS
EL MAGDALENA MEDIO                                                                          _0<  PESCA                      twCARBON
SUS MUNICIPIOS Y SUS RIQUEZAS                                                                        >'GANADO                        ,3CAPITALES
PALMA                      -- CARRETERA PAVIMENTAD
T rp  p. .  6-         0                      40                      80 KILOMETERS               ) ARENAS SILICIAS                   VI9A SIN PAV MENTAR
Tbe b ^nsio res, lol denom r,ulFon. und t In ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOSQUES                                                 FERROCARRIL
-- mpv d-m   16r stTe o fds             B-sd -n,-rimlmp rprd by olnd-d.                                       RO/                          RIOS
acstpy nce oi sucL oundorres   N.-eb., 19,' 1 96 ed I...                                      fiPETROLEO
ANO CREADO 1982                                A ANOCREADO 1996                BR                                                                ANORAO11
HABITANTES  206 1                              ItIFORMAC16N           <          gHABANE                                                                       31
96NBI       88B, 94                            N \INCLUIDA EN                                                                                   %    E B 97
KM2    )       A                RIO VIEJO J01  /k 6
HAIATS136ANO CREADO) 19681)',<t  }::i\=G  *K2827
HABITANTES  13179   <   _>so  =    ;  _,st     s::   Et;t;  3;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABTATES 1 23
ANO CRAD 1 996                                                                      t        7        =.;(OCED
CANTAGALLO > , > w J; =; J t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H6ANBITANTES 47103
ANO CREADO 199536X  }_4~    ,D  M 2
HABITANTES 341 <  o^>i       707
HABITANTES  21004285itJ<  
ANOCREADO 1978)   _.  _~~~~~~~~~~~ \          }   / ,-^                \1    ;8   s1AN //EDO  98
| HABITANTES   15063   <             -  tOI *    /        s r   ffi           .                >1 Wr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HBIANTS  22
SA PUETOBERRO                                                                                                                                   % NB IAi9   ,3]       kh268 J
|ANO CREADO  18981  |                                         ,7~                          
HABITANTES   346709 .\g \  ~  rJrE ANE
|% NBI        79,281   ,                                                             , ,                                                           N   RAO18 
Khl2          I184 J                                         , *                    V  tHBTNE                                                                   15
'   _' '._  |ANO CREADO 18946 
HABIANTE   8 B-i\s                                                                   ,\w                                z}                  AIATS 87 
tI HABITANTES  21843| OAOIA NTS 60                  AIATS 279|               |HBTNE             131|HBTNE               91                      J Mn!---t
1 | % NB   52 65  | % NBI  7 47  |  |    NBI  63 4  |    I  .NBI  5237| | SS NI      60 98     1 1     .           ANO CREL
2      OKM2 66                                                                                                                                      NBM  5    K226    kK213JkK221       ||/          ,   Y 4
A2 0CED    9 



