Document of
The 'World Bank
Report No.: 18148 CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNIG AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FORA
MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 19, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 1368 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CINEP                Center for Research and Popular Education (Centro de
Investigaci6n y Educaci6n Popular)
CMDR                 Municipal Council for Rural Development (Consejo Municipal de
Desarrollo Rural)
CSP                  Nationally Executed Cost Sharing Project
DNP                  National Planning Departnent (Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n)
ECOPETROL            National Oil Company (Empresa Colombiana de Petr6leo)
EDI                  Economic Development Institute
EU                   European Union
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
PDPMM                Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio
Region (Programa de Desarrollo y Paz para el Magdalena Medio)
PHRD                 Project and Human Resources Development Grant (Japanese Grant)
PLANTE               National Plan for Altemative Development (Plan de Desarrollo
Alternativo)
PNR                  National Rehabilitation Program (Programa Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n)
SEAP                 Economic Society of Friends of the Country (Sociedad Econ6mica de
Amigos del Pais)
SOE                  Statement of Expenses
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency of International Development
Vice President                       Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit    Andres Solimano
Director, Sector Management Unit    Maritta Koch-Weser
Sector Leader                        Jonathan Parker
Task Team Leader/Task Manager        Elsie Garfield



Colombia
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Goverrament strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reionns supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed. by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.      Social Assessment
Annex 6.      Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning System
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Colombia
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Enviromnentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Date: June 19, 1998                                 Task Team Leaderifask Manager: Elsie Garfield
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano           Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: CO-        Sector: Multi-sector         Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
PA46031
Lending Instrument: LIL                             Program of Targeted Intervention:   [x] Yes  [   No
Project Financing Data               [xl Loan       [I Credit      [I] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$5.0 million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [x ] Single currency, specify: US dollar
Grace period (years): 3          [    Standard Variable  [xl Fixed           [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 12
Commitrnent fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source
Governnent & ECOPETROL               1.25
Cofinanciers
IBRD            5.00
Total           6.25
Borrower: Republic of Colombia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): National Planning Department
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000       2001
Annual      1.75       2.50        0.75
Cumulative      1.75       4.25       5.00
For Guarantees: NA                             [ ]   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 2 years Expected effectiveness date: July 30, 1998
Expected closing date: December 31, 2000
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
This project is a follow-up to the diagnostic and participatory planning, first phase of the Program
for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM) which has been underway for two
years under the leadership of the Consortium for PDPMM, with financing from the national oil company
(ECOPETROL) and, during the last year, a Japanese Grant and PPF from the Bank. The project
development objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to develop the operational capacity
of the Consortium, the citizens network and other partners to work together towards collectively defined
objectives to reduce poverty and increase peaceful coexistence in the Magdalena Medio Region (see
Annex 1-B) which includes 29 municipalities located in 4 departments.
The two-year LIL would thus establish a solid basis for the detailed design and implementation of
an ambitious ten year community-led, multi-sectoral development program which could be supported by
the Bank through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL, see Annex 1-A). It would be part of a phased
approach with the LIL supporting the second phase of building operational capacity and testing
approaches, followed by an APL to support two to three subsequent phases in which the scope and size of
investments and emphasis on economic activities would increase in line with the growing implementation
capacity of communities and local authorities, and the improving security situation which would improve
the investment climate. A monitoring and evaluation system is being established as an integral part of the
program and its management to support the process of learning by doing.
Key output indicators for the project would include: budget implementation rate vs. planned;
perception of Consortium staff and donors; size and composition of citizen's network; number of nucleos
regularly operating with a nucleo plan; documented lessons on how to strengthen community capacity in a
context of intense conflict; % of sub-projects implemented with positive results.
Key impact/outcome indicators for the project would include: perception of beneficiaries and
stakeholders that the program (of which the LIL is second phase) is operating satisfactorily and that
benefits are being realized; number of partnerships and resources contributed; financial and human
resources contributed by municipalities and others to support sub-projects (as a proxy for commitment to
the program); social organization increased and strengthened in at least 5 of the 29 municipalities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107-CO   Date of latest CAS discussion: November 6, 1997
The proposed project will contribute to the CAS objective of promoting peace and development
which was identified by government authorities and civil society representatives as Colombia's number
one development priority. The project is one of the first lending operations in this new area of Bank
assistance to Colombia. Due to the multi-sectoral nature of the ten year Program for which the LIL is
paving the way, it will also contribute to the five other areas of strategic importance supported by the
CAS: rural development, developing human capital, attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency,
improving infrastructure services, and ensuring sustainable development (excluding the macro-economic
dimension).
The Magdalena Medio Region has a number of attributes which mean that a successful program
there will have enormous significance and impact on the whole country, including: (i) its reputation as one
of the most violent areas of the country and the fact that it presents a microcosm of the complex dynamics
of violence and armed conflict in Colombia; (ii) its strategic location in the heart of the country, serving



Page 3
as a key transportation corridor to the Atlantic coast (river, road and rail); and (iii) its economic
importance as the oil company's industrial headquarters with the largest industrial complex in Colombia
located in Barrancabermeja. A successful program in the Magdalena Medio Region would contribute to
the formulation of a national peace and development strategy, and generate useful lessons for programs in
other parts of the country.
2. Main issues and Government strategy:
Issues: The main issues addressed by the Program, for which the LIL is the second phase, are as follows.
Violence is exacting an increasing economic and social toll: While Colombia is a country with
a long history of political violence, since the late 1980s the problem appears to have become more
widespread, particularly in rural areas, and t:o be exacting an increasing economic and social toll. The
homicide rate doubled in ten years from 36 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1981 to 80 in 1990 which is triple
the rate in Brazil and Mexico. Insecurity in rural areas increased substantially from 1987 to 1994: with
an increase from 24% to 32% of the rural population in areas under pressure from insurgent/guerrilla
movements, and guerrilla presence increased. from 17% to 56% of the municipalities. Certain areas of the
country, such as Magdalena Medio, are subject to active dispute between guerrilla and right-wing armed
groups (referred to as paramilitaries), with very limited presence of the State. This has resulted in a
growing number of internally displaced persons, estimated to be around a million. Studies by Colombian
experts estimate that the previous decade of violence resulted in a 2 percent reduction in the average
annual growth rate of the economy.
Poverty is increasingly a rural phenomenon: Colombia has a good record of economic growth,
including growth of the agriculture sector, over the last 20-30 years and has made important strides in
reducing poverty (from 50% of the population in 1964 to 19% in 1992) and improving social indicators.
Yet there is still a considerable unfinished agenda. Sharp disparities in income, wealth and living
standards between urban and rural areas and between regions of the country remain. Poverty is
increasingly a rural phenomenon: 70% of the, people with incomes below subsistence live in rural areas
and 31 percent of the rural population are defined as extremely poor. There is more poverty in rural areas
than would be expected in a country of Colombia's level of development. The incidence of rural poverty
exceeds the incidence of urban poverty by a ifactor of 3.6, much higher than for most other countries in
Latin America and the Caribbean.
Links between poverty and violence in rural areas: Poverty (particularly high levels of
inequality) and violence in rural areas are related, but there is no simple causal relationship between the
two, historical and social factors are important. Limited access to land and employment raises the
propensity for violence, and violence has a negative feedback on investment and employment. Rural
insecurity reduces the incentive to invest in agriculture and, more importantly causes a skew in the pattern
of investment towards activities that are relatively nonintensive in the use of labor which may encourage
landowners in arable areas to invest in livestock rather than crops. With the growth of the paramilitary
movement and. increased buying up of land in rural areas by drug traffickers, the problem has become
increasingly complex. Rural families account for the majority of displaced persons. Armed conflict in
Colombia has very important local dimensions related to the structure of land tenure and social relations
which, according to experts, are partially concealed by the focus of attention at the national level on the
conflict between guerrilla movements and the State.
Decentralization and citizen participation: While an important process of decentralization and
citizen participation was mandated by the 1991 Constitution, there is still much resistance by central
government agencies and politicians, and much capacity-building needed to help local governments and
citizens assume their new rights and responsibilities. Major reformns in most of the sectors have moved the
locus of responsibility to departmental and municipal governments and created mechanisms for citizen



Page 4
participation and oversight. However, in much of Colombia, these reforms have not been translated into
reality. Progress has been particularly limited in places like Magdalena Medio where local govermnents
are weak and often controlled by a dominant group (guerrilla movement, paramilitary, drug traffickers,
traditional landholding elites) which is usually not interested in the welfare of the population as a whole.
Citizens are often uninformed about their rights and may fear exercising them. The seriousness of these
problems became evident last year when armed groups disrupted local government elections in about 16
percent of Colombia's municipalities and in several departments.
Government Strategy: Colombia is in the process of developing a strategy for reducing
violence/promoting peace which is a tall order given the magnitude and complexity of the problem. Over
the last decade, the Government's strategy has vacillated between two opposing approaches: a military
solution and peace negotiations. The rise in the drug trade has made the identification of a viable solution
more difficult. Over the last year, civil society has become increasingly vocal and active in pursuing
solutions, and the need for international support has for the first time become part of the debate. The
current Government has undertaken, with IDB assistance, important analytical work under the banner La
Paz es Rentable to provide a better understanding of the characteristics and impact of violence with the
objective of handing this work over to the next administration (assuming office in August 1998) which
could use it to develop a peace and development strategy. It has also supported initiatives and programs
which address the socio-economic determinants of violence (land reform, peasant enterprise zones, youth
development), while in parallel trying to make progress at the national level to initiate peace negotiations
and explore alternative solutions to political violence. Over the last few years, a number of local
governments, most notably the Department of Antioquia and administrations in Cali and Bogota, have
undertaken successful initiatives to promote peaceful conflict resolution and have achieved a substantial
reduction in the homicide rate.
The Government's strategy for reducing rural poverty is reasonably well formulated and a
number of programs are underway. As in many of the other sectors, an adequate policy framework and
some innovative programs have been defined, translating them into action remains the key issue. Over the
last two years, Government's thinking about poverty reduction in rural areas has evolved and the
reduction of the urban-rural gap in living standards has been defined as a key strategic objective. A
consultation process led in June 1996 to the signing of a "social pact" between the Government and
farmers which emphasizes an integrated approach to rural development including the social aspects,
identifies violence as a central problem, and land reform as the centerpiece of the rural development
program. In order to give greater prominence and visibility to rural sector issues, the Government has
appointed a "Rural Mission" to look at the sector's needs from a long-term perspective and, on this
basis, refine the Government's strategy.
The decentralization process is currently subject to much internal debate in Colombia,
particularly in light of the fiscal situation and impact of armed groups on local elections. The Government
continues to push forward the reform process in the various sectors and introduce measures to promote
greater financial transparency and accountability. However, the central government has not developed
very effective ways of supporting increased citizen participation and good government in municipalities
dominated by particular interest groups, in part due to the sensitive and difficult nature of the issue.
3. Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
For many years, Magdalena Medio has been considered one of the most violent areas of the
country. Despite the region's rich natural resource base including US$2 billion/year in oil revenues, the
majority of the population live in rural areas and are extremely poor. The project aims to test methods and
build capacity in the region to address the main issues cited above.



Page 5
Three strategic choices have been made by the Government and Bank concerning this operation:
(i) to start small, with a LIL, in order to build capacity and manage risks (by testing approaches) in order
to pave the way for the next, more ambitious phases of the Program;
(ii) to support and pursue this development-peace initiative, despite the current, limited progress being
made at the national level on peace negotiations and the heightened tensions surrounding the elections;
(iii) to support the decision of the initiators of the program (ECOPETROL, oil workers union, and
Catholic church) to rely on an independent, non-governmental organization (the Consortium) to design and
implement the program; and
(iv) to support the Consortium's approach of tackling the objectives of reducing violence and poverty
simultaneously because the causes and possible solutions are intertwined in Magdalena Medio (this does
rule out a phased approach which gives greal:er emphasis to one or the other objective at a particular point
in time).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
_(US$M)             (US$M)   financing
1. Capacity Building for Program  Proj Man.
Management                          Irnstit. Bld     3.50*    56        3.00*     60
2. Sub-Projects                    Olher            2.75      44        2.50      40
Total                                  6.25    100         5.00      100
*Includes 380, 000for refinancing of PPF.
Project Component 1. Capacitv Building of Program Management. The objective of this component is to
build the capacity of the Consortium and Citizen's Network to implement the Program for Development
and Peace. This capacity building is for purposes of carrying out the Program, therefore, if by the end of
the LIL a new, regional entity has been established to take the place of the Consortium, the assets and
knowledge gained during the LIL will be passed on to the new entity.
Sub-Component 1.1 Consortium as Change Agent and Program Manager. The objective of this
sub-component is to develop the Consortium's capacity to move from a participatory planning mode to an
operational mode characterized by: (i) acting as a catalyst (promoter, intermediary, advisor and financier)
among relevant beneficiaries and stakeholders; (ii) translating local initiatives into viable action plans and
investments; (iii) promoting the establishment of effective partnerships with other organizations to support
development initiatives; and (iv) dealing effectively with the diverse interests of key stakeholders in the
region. To achieve this objective, the project would finance the Consortium's activities as change agent
(strategy development; mobilization and technical support to citizen's network, communities and
municipalities), program manager (design and implementation of new organizational, administrative and
financial management systems; annual financial audit) and learning organization (internal monitoring,
evaluation, and learning system; external evaluation). Expenditures would be for incremental operating
costs of the Consortium (including full-time s taff), consulting services, learning events, and goods.



Page 6
Sub-Component 1.2. Citizen's Network. The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the
Citizen's Network so that it is capable of influencing public affairs and implementing development
projects based on local initiatives. The network is a voluntary association of citizens and organizations
which has its base in nucleos in each municipality, representatives of nucleos in the nodo at the sub-
regional level, and representatives of nodos at the regional level. It has a central role in program
implementation and is considered by the Consortium as a vehicle for building social capital in the region
The project will fund learning events (workshops, training, study tours and exchanges within and outside
the region), communications activities such as newsletters, and small grants for municipal nucleos to
cover the costs of carrying out six month work plans (nucleo plans).
Project Component 2. Sub-Projects. The objective of this component is to develop, test and document
approaches which bring together community processes and resources around specific development
initiatives agreed upon by citizens and authorities of selected municipalities or sub-regions of Magdalena
Medio. Strategies and sub-projects are at various stages of development in the following areas identified
as priorities by communities: education, health, environment, economic development (including road
maintenance), peaceful coexistence (including community justice), and institutional development
(municipalities, forums for citizen participation).
Sub-Component 2.1 Technical Assistance for Sub-Project Preparation. Under this sub-
component, technical support will be provided to a community to develop a specific development initiative
or sub-project. It will finance activities such as: technical advice, feasibility and design studies (mainly
for economic and infrastructure projects), building of management capacity, and establishing links with
potential partners and financiers. This would not include technical support by Consortium personnel
(included under sub-component 1.1 above), but rather specific support provided by tlird parties which is
requested by the nucleo or community proposing the initiative. The aim is to identify workable
mechanisms for keeping the community in control of the project design process, while ensuring good
technical design and adequate supervision of consultants.
Sub-Component 2.2 Sub-Projects. The project will finance a proportion of the costs (services of
consultants and NGOs, local operating costs, equipment and minor civil works) of specific sub-projects.
The sub-component will have a phased approach (a "LIL within a LIL"): financing would begin in
strategic areas such as education, health and environment which are well defined, and new areas would be
phased in based on two criteria: the strategy is ready, and the implementation capacity of the Consortium
and communities is judged sufficient to expand the component's scope. For each strategic area, a specific
set of questions and lessons to be learned will be identified prior to financing any sub-projects, and
subsequently will be monitored and evaluated. As a condition for disbursements under this sub-
component, basic guidelines for eligibility, cost sharing and accountability for the sub-projects as well as
the decision rules for phasing in new strategic areas will be prepared in the forrn of an Operating Manual
acceptable to the Bank. The Manual will be adjusted during the project to incorporate the lessons learned.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Program would support implementation of the major policy and institutional reforms adopted
by the national government since 1991 in the 29 municipalities of the region. The LIL will test strategies
for doing so through pilot initiatives in key sectors, such as health, education and road maintenance, in
selected municipalities where communities have identified the initiative as a development priority. In
support of the decentralization process, the LIL would help municipalities interested in improving core
functions such as participatory planning and financial management, and in activating decision-making
forums mandated by law but not yet functioning such as the Municipal Councils for Rural Development.



Page 7
3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
Project benefits are expected at three levels:
Central: Through the experience under the LIL, key partners at the central level--DNP, Ministry of
Finance, ECOPETROL, the Bank and UND1P--will have tested and refined institutional arrangements for
supporting a regional program managed by a Consortium of NGOs. The experience will contribute to
national thinking about how to promote peace and development in a region, as well as to the development
of approaches for transforming the various sector reforms and decentralization into a reality at the
municipal level. It will also contribute to ECOPETROL's process of redefining its community
relations/outreach approach.
Regional and Sub-Regional level: A key benefit will be the improved operational capacity of the
Consortium and Citizen's Network. By the end of the LIL, the Consortium (or the regional entity
which eventually replaces it) will have in place a fully adequate organizational and administrative
structure to manage the program as it grows and to meet requirements for use of public funds including
loans and grants from international organizations and bilateral donors. The sector-specific strategies and
interventions which have been tested and adapted during the LIL will provide the basis for scaling up the
Program. A monitoring, evaluation and learning system will be in place which provides feedback to the
Consortium on its performance, evaluates the program as a whole and is an integral part of capacity
building of comnmunities at the municipal level. As a result, the LIL will have increased the Consortium's
capacity to absorb and mobilize new financ:ing, and to establish relationships with new partners.
An important benefit of the LIL is the consolidation of the Citizen's Network as part of a long-term
process of building social capital in the region. Through support under the LIL, the network will help
improve communication and understanding among citizens from diverse communities and backgrounds
thus contributing to a sense of conmmon purpose, and give voice to the concerns of citizens and strengthen
their capacity to influence policy and action at both the regional and municipal level.
An intangible benefit of the LIL will be an increase in the Program's credibility with comrnunities, local
authorities and other potential partners. It is critical for the Program to show concrete accomplishments in
order to combat pessimism and a feeling of powerlessness in the face of the violence which pervades the
region. The central Government's support for the Program would initiate a long-term process of
improving the image of the State in the region, by evidencing its commitment to support a program built
from the bottom-up.
Municipal and Community Level: The program focuses on communities as the driving force for peace
and development. An important benefit of the LIL will be behavioral changes at the community and
municipal level which emerge from the process of bringing together local authorities, communities and
other stakeholders around commonly defined development priorities. Although the process will be
supported by the LIL in all 29 municipalities, progress is expected to vary substantially depending on the
particular circumstances in each municipalily. One manifestation of this changed behavior will be greater
participation of citizens and community orgamizations in municipal forurns such as the CMDR and parents
associations, and incorporation of their priorities into the municipal development plan.
In the selected municipalities where pilot initiatives and sub-projects are supported by the LIL, citizens
will have a better understanding of conditions in their municipality, and their rights and responsibilities
under sector reforms adopted since 1991, as well as improved capacity to define priorities, implement
projects, resolve conflicts, monitor and evaluate, and influence public policy. There should be concrete
benefits and measurable impact of the successful sub-projects, even though the two-year time frame for
the LIL is short. These benefits will be specified for each sub-project and at the aggregate level for each



Page 8
strategic area. By the end of the LIL, a process to improve municipal capacity to respond to citizens needs
and concerns will be underway. The 29 municipalities should have greater visibility and be better placed
to demand and receive attention and resources from departmental and national programs.
Target Population. While the Program will have broad benefits for all living in the region, it is
specifically targeted to the 70% of the region's population, roughly 500,000 out of an estimated total
population of 715,862, whose income falls below the poverty line. It is considered part of the Program
for Targeted Interventions since the incidence of poverty in the region is estimated to be high in both
absolute and relative terms. Seventy percent of the region's population have incomes below the poverty
line (conservative definition-subsistence food needs estimated at US$360 per capita in 1992) and 53%
have Unmet Basic Needs, compared to the national average of 19% below the poverty line, and the
national averages for rural areas of 31% below the poverty line and 44% with Unmet Basic Needs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM) is
underway and has received support from various sources, primarily ECOPETROL and several ministries.
The project which fits within the framework of the Program is to be implemented in two years and will
be fully financed by the loan, ECOPETROL and, in the second year, the Government. UNDP is providing
and directly managing a US$400,000 grant to support the PDPMM in 1998. The implementation
arrangements for the LIL are described below.
Roles of National Planning Department, Implementing Agency and UNDP. The National Planning
Department (DNP) has been designated by the Government to be responsible for the project. The
Consortium' which was established for the specific purpose of preparing and implementing the PDPMM
has been designated by the Government as the implementing agency. Two committees have been created to
oversee the project. The National Technical Committee (Comite Tecnico Nacional) presided by the
Deputy Director of DNP and composed of the President of the Board of Directors of the Consortium, and
a representative of ECOPETROL and of UNDP will meet every six months and have functions such as
approving the semi-annual plans, and reviewing reports of the Revisor Fiscal and independent auditors.
The National Consultative Comnmittee (Comite Consultativo Nacional) which will have a somewhat
broader membership will meet quarterly and advise on matters such as the general policies of the
PDPMM. The Consortium will act as the Technical Secretariat for the two committees.
DNP with the agreement of the Consortium would like to continue arrangements established for
the PPF whereby UNDP, under a Nationally Executed Cost Sharing Project (CSP), would handle certain
procurement, administrative, and financial management functions for the project. ECOPETROL has made
financing of the project conditional on UNDP management of its contribution. Thus, all project funds
from the loan, ECOPETROL and, if the case arises, an eventual Govermnent counterpart contribution
would be administered by UNDP. However, as is the characteristic of Cost Sharing Projects, the national
implementing agency--in this case the Consortium--retains project management authority under the
guidance of DNP and the National Technical Committee. UNDP's administrative role (at least in regard
to the loan) is considered a transitional arrangement, while the Consortium (or the regional entity which
eventually replaces it) strengthens its capacity so that it can take over fully program management after
completion of the LIL.
' The Consortium was originally composed of CINEP (Centro de Investigaci6n y Educaci6n Popular) and SEAP
(Sociedad Econ6mica de Amigos del Pais). In May 1998 when the Consortium's contract with ECOPETROL
expired, SEAP decided to withdraw from the Consortium. CINEP and the Diocese of Barrancabermeja have
formed a new Consortium to implement the LIL. This has not disrupted the Program since the same staff and
office facilities/systems continue to work on the Program. Furthermore, the Diocese was one of the original
initiators of the Program, so its membership in the Consortium provides continuity.



Page 9
There are substantial benefits of UNDP's role: (i) it has an institutional commitment to the
project's objectives and experience supporting development-peace initiatives in Colombia (key donor for
the National Rehabilitation Program, PNR in the late 1980s) and in other parts of the world; (ii) it is
committed to the PDPMM and is in the process of approving parallel financing of $400,000 for selected
activities which support the LIL's objectives; (iii) project funding mechanisms among the key cofinanciers
would be harmonized; and (iv) funds should be available on a more timely basis due to a simpler
disbursement process (advances made from the Bank loan into UNDP's New York account in accord with
the terms of the CSP and with the approval of the Ministry of Finance); the latter is critical given the short
implementation period of the LIL and the need for the Program to establish credibility with communities
and local authorities.
The legal instrument for defining the rights and responsibilities of DNP, the Consortium and
UNDP, and a detailed set of operating rules for the LIL would be the CSP Document (a CSP acceptable
to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness). Based on the Bank's evaluation of the Consortium's
capacity and the LIL's objective of strengthening the Consortium's capacity so that it can take over full
responsibility for management of the Program as it grows, we recommend that the Consortium be
responsible for the key project management functions: preparing and implementing the semi-annual
operating plans, monitoring and evaluation, project reports, and financial management functions including
the project accounts, financial statements, and hiring the external auditor. ECOPETROL, DNP and
UNDP will negotiate a contract compatible with the loan agreement to cover ECOPETROL's funding of
the project; during negotiations, ECOPETROL indicated that it preferred to include its contribution under
the CSP Document cited above, making it a quartripartite agreement.
Citizen's Network, Communities, Municipalities and Other Partners. The Consortium's role is largely
that of a facilitator which promotes a process. Inherent in the participatory and partnership approach
adopted by the Program is the fact that the citizen's network, communities, and other partners such as
municipalities, NGOs, central government agencies are the key actors when it comes to doing things. The
citizen's network is a vehicle for the Consortium support to build social capital in the region, but it is also
independent of the Consortium. The Consortium's sub-regional delegates are the key intermediaries and
promoters of the program at the sub-regional and municipal level. The network at the municipal level
(nucleos) has a critical role to play in the de velopment of municipal proposals and sub-projects in
consultation with key stakeholders. The LII, will support the process of learning how to work out various
arrangements between the multiple partners. Under Component 2, the communities and other partners will
be able to propose and implement sub-projects. The municipality is a key partner, and its role and
functions will not be usurped by the prograrm; however, direct municipal involvement (including financial
contributions) will not be a requirement for all sub-projects. An Operating Manual satisfactory to the
Bank will contain the detailed decision-making process and rules for financing sub-projects and nucleo
plans.
Semi-Annual Plans. In view of the learning nature of the project which requires flexibility and adaptation
as it proceeds, semi-annual operating plans will be a key implementation mechanism. The plans will serve
as a reference point for agreeing on activities to be undertaken, the budget, disbursement estimates and
performance indicators. The plans will serve as a monitoring and evaluation tool, withn a performance
evaluation of the previous plan submitted with each new plan. Part of the learning under the LIL will be
to define the appropriate level of detail in the plans that suits the learning mode of the LIL and the difficult
environment in which the project is being carried out which requires flexibility. It has been agreed that the
first plan will cover the period May-December 1998 to coincide with the govenmment's fiscal year.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning System. The design of the system is discussed in Annex 6. The
intemal systern is woven into the Consortium's structure and into the participatory process itself, so that
rather than being a separate function carried out by an isolated group, it will be a part of the program's



Page 10
regular operations and will support continuous learning. A specific set of questions and lessons to be
learned have been identified (including for each strategic area, such as education) and will be monitored
and evaluated during the LIL. Due to the nature of the LIL outputs, the M&E will rely strongly on
qualitative methodologies and assessment of the quality of the participatory process. The external
evaluation will be to some extent a continuation of the process initiated by ECOPETROL which involves
three, highly regarded experts who meet with the Consortium every three months to discuss a report
prepared by a sociologist which provides an insight into what has been occurring from the perspective of
various actors including Consortium staff and communities. During the course of the LIL, the baseline for
the Program as a whole (incorporating quantitative measures of poverty for example) will be established.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing. Under the LIL, the Consortium's accounting, financial
management and administrative systems will be strengthened to handle the increasing volume of funds,
number of funding agencies, and number and type of activities to be financed. Since hiring an external
auditor in early 1997 who found inadequate internal control systems, the Consortium has made good
progress in putting in place adequate financial management systems. The computerized accounting and
budgeting system produces financial statements which are in accord with generally accepted accounting
principles. Currently, Consortium staff manage treasury functions and an external consulting firm does
the accounting, prepares the financial and budget reports, and carries out some internal audit functions.
The Consortium is in the process of procuring a new management information system to be mounted in
Bogota, Barrancabermeja and the 8 sub-regional offices. Currently, most financial functions are
concentrated in Bogota, but this will change over the course of the LIL as the new system is put in place
and the office in Barrancabermeja takes over as the main office of the Consortium.
The Consortium has in place the basic elements for managing the loan funds. The following Plan
of Action for the first year of the LIL has been agreed with the Consortium: (i) increase financial staff
and ensure there is at least one qualified accountant in each of the two key offices--Bogota and
Barrancabermeja; (ii) put in place the new management information system; (iii) extend the contract with
the external consulting firm until: (a) the new management systems have been tested and operated in
parallel with the existing one for several months, and (b) Consortium staff have shown adequate capacity
to carry out the functions without assistance; and (iv) strengthen internal controls through the hiring of a
Revisor Fiscal. An external auditor acceptable to the Bank will be hired to carry out the annual audits of
the project accounts. These measures will be included in the CSP Document.
Procurement. Procurement arrangements take into account the following critical factors: the need for
timely procurement in order to implement the project in two years; the Program's underlying approach of
working in partnerships which entails identifying partners already working in the region or with a unique
experience and set of qualifications; the region's reputation which may discourage interest in working
there; and the need for consultants who have sufficient knowledge of the region and experience working in
areas of conflict to avoid problems. The Bank and Government agree that the Consortium is uniquely
qualified to implement the LIL given its role and acciumulated experience in the region, and its new
contract with ECOPETROL which will be providing counterpart funds. The justification for contracting
UNDP under a Nationally Executed Cost-Sharing Project is discussed above.
The type of procurement to be carried out under the LIL is fairly simple: contracts for goods are expected
to be small and only a few, if any, consulting assignments merit formal concursos. The Consortium's Manual de
procedimientos includes procedures acceptable to the Bank for making small acquisitions of goods and services,
and the Consortium has shown the capacity to carry out this function. In the case of medium-size contracts for
goods and services, over US$10,000, they will receive support from UNDP. As the LIL will finance a fair amount
of small contracts for consulting services, the Consortium will need to add to its Manual procedures for consulting
services and will need to improve its capacity in this area particularly for larger contracts. The provision



Page 1 1
concerning the Manual will be included in the CSP Document. Sub-projects carried out by communities and other
partners under Component 2.2 will be small (total sub-project cost of under US$50,000) and procurement
arrangements will be simple.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternatives had already been ruled out when the Bank joined as a partner of the
program and the reasons for rejection are valid:
Direct government management of the program: It is difficult to envision how a program for
development and peace in Magdalena Medio could be effectively managed by the government: central
govermment presence is weak; the armed conflict has led to mistrust, fear and polarization of the society;
the 4 Departments (with the possible exception of Antioquia which covers 3 of the municipalities)
involved have a long record of low attention to the municipalities covered by the program; and the
municipal governments tend to be weak and controlled by interest groups. Therefore, we strongly support
the alternative developed by the program's initiators of relying on an independent, neutral actor (the
Consortium) to develop the program in partnership with key stakeholders including the central and local
governments. Despite an escalation of violence surrounding the elections late last year, the Consortium
has proved so far that it can operate effectively in this complex environment and maintain a dialogue with
the various actors.
Support for national programs, such as the National Cofinancing System, to reduce poverty vs. an
integrated approach in a specific region: A critical question raised within the Bank during early stages
of preparation was the rationale for Bank support for a regional project which would reach a relatively
limited population versus an approach of making national programs work better (e.g. Colombia's
cofinancing system) which could have a broader impact in terms of the population served. The major
rationale for an integrated approach in a specific region grew out of dissatisfaction with the poverty
impact of the Bank's usual approach of relying on central government agencies and national programs.
The Bank's experience supporting the Cofinancing Fund for Integrated Rural Development (one of the
better performing projects, Ln. 3250) provided the following lessons: (i) the program was not well
grounded in the realities of the people it was to serve, nor sufficiently flexible to respond to the enormous
diversity of regional and local conditions in Colombia; (ii) efforts to "fix" the cofinancing system--one of
the Government's central vehicles for implernenting its poverty agenda--had improved performance, but
there appeared to be insurmountable political obstacles to making it work adequately; and (iii) there was
growing evidence that the cofinancing systern which relies on implementation by municipal and
departmental governments does not reach poor communities in areas like Magdalena Medio where the
political-social system is still clientelistic and civil society is weak. The approach adopted in the PDPMM
is to strengthen communities and municipalities in order to improve their access to investment resources
through the regular national programs which currently do not reach the region, and through direct support
of the program. This approach complements the Bank's on-going support to national programs.
The following alternative was considered during preparation, but rejected:
Bank support in the form of an Adaptable Program Loan/Traditional Investment Loan: The option
of moving directly into a APL or traditional loan was rejected, because it was agreed that operational
capacity needed to be built and the program's many innovative features needed to be tested and fine-tuned
before embarking on a large scale investment program.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                    Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-finance  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Rural Development                    Rural Dev. Investment                          S
(3250, ICR)
Agricultural Technology       S               S
(3871)
Land Reform                 FY99
Sustainable Development              Natural Resource Mgt.         S                S
(Environment)                        (3692)
Urban Environment             S               S
(3973)
Human Capital                        Antioquia Education           S                S
Pasto Education               S               S
Secondaxy Education           U               S
Education Sector (3010)       S               S
Municipal Health (3615)       U               S
Peace and Development                Youth Development         FY98 (LIL)
Peasant Enterprise Zones  FY98 (LIL)
Rural Infrastructure                 Second Rural Roads
Sector (3157, ICR)                            S
Other development aWencies
Poverty-Safety Net                   Social Solidarity Network  underway
(IDB)
Partnerships for Poverty
Reduction (EDI, UNDP,      underway
Inter-American Found.)
Alternative Development (Rural)      PLANTE (IDB)               underway
Regional Development                 Pacific Coast Sustainable  underway
Development Prog. (IDB)
Peace and Development                Support for Peaceful     just approved
Coexistence and Security
of Citizens (IDB)
International Cooperation  just approved
Uraba (UNDP, USAID,
EU, IDB, Netherlands)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from international experience
Conflict situations: The underlying design of this Program, to be tested under the LIL, is
consistent with the Bank's evolving approach for integrating concern for conflict into development
operations: (i) undertake a social assessment which includes explicit recognition and analysis of conflict;
(ii) engage civil society and emphasize building social capital; (iii) increased focus on governance; and (iv)
evaluate the socio-economic costs of violence. The project embodies a pro-active stance which supports
the Colombian government's initiative "to promote activities which ameliorate conditions which may lead



Page 13
to conflict" which is cited as an area for Bank assistance in the framework. (Task Group Report on Social
Development and Results on the Ground; and A Frameworkfor World Bank Involvement in Situations of
Conflict, R97-14). The central role of cormnunities (including implementation) in this project has proved
to be a critical factor for success in recent reconstruction efforts in other countries such as Guatemala.
Integrated rural development programs. The failures of many of the Bank supported integrated
rural development programs of the 1970s and 1980s were in large part attributable to their top-down,
centralized design and implementation which proved to be overly complex, difficult to manage, and
unresponsive to beneficiary needs. The PDPMM's design, being tested under the LIL, is based on a highly
participatory approach and reliance on partnerships rather than creation of a monolithic project unit to
manage and finance all aspects of the program. The recent positive experiences promoting rural
development in Brazil based on giving communities a central role in the definition of priorities, design and
implementation of projects offer support for this approach (Decentralized Rural Development and
Enhanced Community Participation: A Case Study from Northeast Brazil, Policy Research Working
Paper, 1995). In addition, experience in Northeast Brazil suggests that the Consortium should not be
relegated to simply a coordinating role; it needs some resources of its own to move the program forward
(Tendler, New Lessons from Old Projects, OED 1993).
Lessons from the Bank's work in Colombia: overcoming the implementation gap
As indicated in the CAS, a critical problem the Bank has faced in Colombia is the difficulty of
translating the Government's written policies and programs (often very innovative) into practice to achieve
the intended results. This project supports an alternative to the Bank's usual approach of relying on
central government agencies and financing of national programs in each sector. It has the following
features which we believe increase the likelihood of success:
Participatory approach. Stakeholders, particularly communities, are directly involved in
program design and implementation through a bottom-up, participatory process which began with a
diagnosis of the region's problems and is being consolidated with the establishment of a citizen's network
and preparation of municipal development-peace proposals. The importance of promoting community
participation is supported by case studies of successful municipalities which concluded that community
participation has been a key contributor to good municipal government in Colombia (Local Government
Capacity: Beyond Technical Assistance, Report No. 14085-CO, 1995).
Regional and multi-sectoral approach. The Bank has primarily supported sector-specific,
national programs which has led to a partial view of development at the local level and parallel
interventions in different sectors each with its own rules which at times overburden limited local capacity.
In addition, many of the national programs the Bank has supported have not been well-grounded in the
realities of the people they are to serve, nor sufficiently flexible to respond to the enormous diversity of
regional and local conditions in Colombia. This program is being built from the ground up based on a
multidimensional analysis of the dynamics of poverty and violence in the Magdalena Medio region and an
integrated, multi-sectoral response.
Difficulties and dangers of only wrorking directly through local governments. The Bank's
experience working with the national cofinancing system has shown the drawbacks of only working
through local governments, particularly where civil society is weak and local authorities represent specific
interest groups and often ignore the interests of the majority of the population. In the case of the
Magdalena Medio region, the Consortium has more independence and credibility than a government
agency, and works impartially with the entire population and local authorities. It is not, however, trying to
replace the municipal or departmental authorities, rather it promotes agreement among key stakeholders,
including local authorities, about priority development issues and actions including investment.



Page 14
Rigidity of the budget process and probability of budget cuts. The institutional arrangements
and financing mechanisms for the LIL have been designed to minimize the obstacles posed by the
cumbersome budget process, so that the Consortium receives funds in a regular and timely manner. This is
essential in order to establish the program's credibility in the eyes of the communities and to enable the
Consortium to have sufficient flexibility to operate in the region's conflictive environment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The ownership of the program is broad-based reflecting its origins (initiative of the Catholic church,
ECOPETROL, and Oil Workers Union) and the participatory process carried out in the first phase which
involved individuals, communities, NGOs, universities, municipal and departmental authorities, and the
private sector. During the CAS process and subsequent Bank programming mission in late 1997, the
central government indicated its strong commitment to this operation which it considers to be a pioneer in
the peace and development area. The Planning and Finance ministries quickly obtained delegation of
authority from the Congress to approve LILs in October 1997 and, despite tight fiscal constraints, have
included necessary funds for this project in the 1998 budget. A number of central government ministries
have provided technical and financial support to the program over the last year.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank and central Government have joined the PDPMM as partners. The leader of the program is the
Consortium and the major partner, up to now, is ECOPETROL. The Consortium and Government have
indicated that the Bank's value added is both technical and financial. The members of the Consortium
have a good track record in promoting community self-help through participatory processes and the
Consortium has good technical staff, but it has less experience translating the priorities of communities
into technically feasible and financially viable projects and programs. The Bank's multi-sectoral
knowledge and operational experience, both in Colombia and internationally, is contributing to the
technical quality and practicality of the program. The Bank's funding of the Consortium's core activities
is critical and will be a catalyst for other entities, such as local governments and bilateral donors, to fund
the program's investment activities. The Bank's involvement has brought additional credibility and
visibility to the program at both the national and international level. Given the long-term nature of the
Program, the current government expects the Bank's involvement to provide continuity through changes
in Colombian administrations.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: There are compelling economic arguments for investing public resources in promoting
development and peace in Magdalena Medio. The direct and indirect economic cost of violence in
Colombia are enormous. A recent report prepared for DNP calculated the economic cost of violence
(kidnapping, extortion, attacks on oil pipelines, and foregone earnings of those murdered) over the five
year period 1990-94 to be US$ 13.5 billion (about 4% of GDP), of which about 25% was government
security expenditures. The petroleum industry, increasingly central to Colombia's development prospects,
has been struck particularly hard.
Magdalena Medio is one of the areas of the country suffering most from violence and, as indicated earlier,
is a region of enormous economic and strategic importance for the oil industry (refinery, pipeline, gas
production) and as a national transportation corridor. A reduction of violence there will certainty be an
enormous economic gain for the country as a whole that should far surpass the cost of the ten-year
Program which is also contributing to poverty reduction.



Page 15
2. Financial: Not applicable; Fiscal impact: The LIL will have a limited fiscal impact and will initiate a
process which improves transparency and accountability of resource use at the municipal level, thus
improving the use of existing resources. In addition, an eventual reduction of violence would significantly
reduce central and local government expenditures on security, replacement of assets, support for displaced
persons, etc.
3. Technical: During preparation and as part of the LIL, technical analysis is being done to develop
intervention strategies for priority sectors. By the end of the LIL, the Consortium will have evaluated the
suitability of the strategies from a technical, cost effectiveness and social perspective. The technical
feasibility of the sub-projects (component .2 of the LIL) will be analyzed as part of the decision-making
process for awarding funds.
4. Institutional:
The main objective of the LIL is to build the capacity of the Consortium, citizen's network, communities
and local governments.
a. Executing agencies (see below for more on Consortium): Communities (including the citizen's
network) and municipalities have a central role in project implementation particularly for the sub-projects.
Capacity is quite varied among municipalities and sub-regions in Magdalena Medio. The departure point
for the LIL is that capacity building will be most effective if it is learning by doing through concrete
experiences which produce tangible results (i.e. process of preparing municipal proposals, initiatives,
development-peace sub-projects). The LII, will test ways of keeping communities in the drivers seat and
will work out the appropriate role of the Consortium, citizens network, and communities at the municipal
and neighborhood level. Through concrete experience, it will also provide lessons on how to build
partnerships and other methods of working with NGOs, universities, and the private sector. Prominent
Colombian organizations (Fundaci6n Social, Fundaci6n Carvajal, FES, ACTUAR, etc.) have already
demonstrated enormous good-will and interest in supporting the program, and there are also interesting
examples of working with the private sector (Westinghouse).
b. Project management: The Consortium's capacity has been evaluated as: high for participatory
processes and mobilization of support for the program both inside and outside region, high for the
technical qualifications and commitment oi the staff (though an improved skills mix toward staff with
operational experience is needed), medium for strategy formulation, and medium for administrative and
financial management. It is experiencing growing pains as the program's size and complexity increases
and as the Consortium team expands. An organizational structure and decision-making mechanisms for
implementing the LIL have been agreed; their appropriateness and effectiveness will be monitored, and
adjustments made during the course of the LIL. The M&E and learning mechanisms will provide
important feedback, including staff and beneficiaries' assessment of the Consortium's performance.
5. Social (see annex 5):
The PDPMM has put social issues at the heart of its approach and an explicit objective of the program is
to build social capital. The program has been built using a participatory methodology which is a
continuous process of social analysis with communities playing a central role. No negative social
consequences of the project are foreseen.
The social assessment has involved a three step approach. First, a technical diagnosis to assess the overall
situation of the region was done using six areas of interrelated analysis: the economy, the oil industry,
peace and coexistence, culture and social networks, the region and human development. The methods used
were secondary data analysis and qualitative methodologies, including focus groups, individual and group
interviews, panel discussions. Second, a series of local, subregional and regional events with about 1500
participants were held to assess needs, define priorities and identify opportunities. The participants in the



Page 16
events represented a wide range of community organizations, men and women of different age groups,
local and regional NGO's, academic groups, local authorities, staff of public entities, and representatives
of the groups in conflict. The findings of these steps of the social assessment process are summarized in
Annex 5.
The third step will be carried out as part of the process of putting in place the monitoring, evaluation and
learning system and will involve establishment of a baseline at two levels: (i) information (demographic,
socio-economic, service coverage, incidence of violence, poverty index and the like) for each municipality
which is available in public and private data sets, both in the region and at the national level, as well as
information collected during project preparation on living conditions in rural areas of four municipalities;
and (ii) qualitative data on levels of community organization and participation, capacity and influence of
the existing organizations, perception of the program, the status of the core group (nucleos). The
participatory M&E and learning system (see Annex 6) is designed to ensure the involvement of nucleos
and sub-project participants, and the communities at large in data gathering, analysis and dissemination of
findings. Thus, the highly participatory nature of this project as well as its learning dimension should
guarantee that the interests and concerns of citizens, particularly the most disadvantaged, will be taken
into consideration.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A   [x] B   []C
No adverse environmental impact is expected. Under component 2, positive environmental initiatives
(which may be financed partially by UNDP) are to be undertaken such as: introduction of cleaner methods
of gold processing which reduce mercury pollution of water, and integrated approaches to micro-
watershed management. National norms concerning environmental licensing will be respected and the
Consortium will define a screening mechanism for component 2 sub-projects. As part of the LIL, the
Consortium will develop an adequate environmental assessment-review process for the Program's next
phase of increased investment activity. It will draw on the work done by the Bank's Latin America
Region on approaches to environmental management for social investment funds which includes valuable
lessons from the Colombia Rural Development Investment Prograrn (Ln. 3250).
7. Participatory approach (see Annex 5):
The project and PDPMM involve a highly participatory, inclusive approach which is empowering of local
people; the approach will be tested and adapted during the LIL. Broad based participation of stakeholders
is an essential feature of this operation. The starting point is the formation of the core groups (nucleos) to
mobilize the community, and to identify needs, priorities and initiatives following the methodology
described in detail in Annex 5. The six month nucleo plans are an instrument that will contribute to
creating social capital and enhancing community self-management. The initiatives and sub-projects
emerging from the process described in the methodology should reflect a consensus among citizens and
local authorities, and their successful implementation is expected to contribute to overcoming poverty and
increasing peaceful coexistence in the region. The technical assistance and advice provided by the
Consortium and partner organizations will be client-centered. By the end of the LIL, it is expected that a
strong citizen's network will have been established and will be influencing public affairs and implementing
sub-projects based on local initiatives.



Page 17
Primary Beneficiaries and Other Key Stakeholders
The table below summarizes the key beneficiaries and stakeholders of the project and the level of
participation achieved or expected, using four critical dimensions: information sharing (IS), consultation
(CO), joint decision-making (DM), and self-management (SM).
Preparation                   Implementation
IS  CO   DM   SM            IS   CO DM    SM
Primary Beneficiaries
Citizens                    X   X                       X     X  X
Community Organizations     X   X     X*                X     X  X    X
and Sector Associations
Municipal Governments       X   X     X                 X     X  X    X
Staff of Consortium         X   X     X    X            X     X  X    X
Other Stakeholders
ECOPETROL                   X X   X  X                  X  X X  X
Local/ Regional NGO's       X   X                       X    X   X
Program Partners            X  X      X*                X    X   X
Business organizations      X  X                        X    X   X
Churches+                   X  X      X                 X    X   X
Groups in Conflict          X                           X
* Partly, i.e. some organizations in some activities.
+ Particularly the Catholic Church.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: If the LIL successfully achieves its objectives then it should be sustainable and allow
the Program to move to the next phase which will have a much heavier emphasis on investment. The
factors affecting sustainability are those described under point 2 below (critical risks) with the risk
concerning the armed groups being the most important. Regarding financial sustainability, this is not a
major concern given the concentration on development activities of high priority within a municipality and
the low level of investment in assets which require recurrent cost financing. Arrangements for cost
recovery, and norms concerning community and municipal contributions to financing of investments is an
area being explored under the LIL in order to design the next phase of the program.



Page 18
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Objective to Goal"
The armed groups do not respect the process.       S        Consortium maintains a low-key but
continuous dialogue with them. It will
regularly monitor the socio-political
dynamics in each participating
municipality, and adjust and modulate
its approach in accord with evolving
conditions. The systematic involvement
of citizens is another important means
of reducing this risk.
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
The approach is not acceptable to the citizens and  M       Financing of some sub-projects
authorities.                                                considered a priority by citizens and
authorities should increase the
program's credibility and the
acceptability of the approach.
Partnerships are not viable due to lack of trust and        The Consortium is carefully selecting
adverse and/or deteriorating working conditions in  M       its partners in order to ensure that they
the region.                                                 are fully aware of the conditions in the
region and committed to work in a
manner consistent with the program's
philosophy.
The Consortium takes on too many new                       The review of the semi-annual work
commitments (number of activities, donors) relative  S     plans and the quarterly M&E reports
to its operational capacity, thus endangering the           will give early warning signals if the
successful implementation of the LIL.                      Consortium is over-stretching its
capacity.
ECOPETROL's financial support to the program                Continued strong central Government
(counterpart funds) declines due to recent financial  M    support for the program is likely to
strains and/or a re-examination of its role in the          affect ECOPETROL's decisions;
program.                                                    likewise, the program continues to
have strong support within
ECOPETROL. Concrete
accomplishments under the LIL and
improved coordination among
cofinanciers may -reinforce support.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Funds not available when needed.                   S        Involvement of UNDP should speed-up
disbursements.
Municipalities and communities do not commit      M        The high priority attached to the sub-
needed resources to cofinance sub-projects                 projects should ensure willingness to
contribute.
Overall Risk Rating     S       I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
In addition to the risks noted above, another factor which must be taken into account is the
electoral process and change in presidential administration in August 1998. Due to the broad-based
support for the prograrn, the likelihood of a significant decline in support under the new administration is
low.



Page 1 9
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project is being carried out in a situation of on-going conflict which is very unpredictable. It has
raised expectations at the local, regional and national level, and is highly visible particularly as the
national debate on peace in Colombia increases in anticipation of the change of administration in August.
While we believe that the Consortium's role as a neutral actor and its dialogue with all actors is a solid
approach, nonetheless the project may be criticized by those who believe that these matters should not be
dealt with at the local level and/or by those who favor a "hard-line" approach.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Nationally Executed Cost-Sharing Project Document acceptable to the Bank which includes
provisions concerning the respective roles and responsibilities of DNP, UNDP and the Consortium
(including Plan of Action for financial management, and updating of Manual de procedimientos)
*  Arrangement for counterpart funds from ECOPETROL in place
*  Submission of first Semi-Annual Plan I'May-December 1998) acceptable to the Bank
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Conditions for Approval by Regional Vice.-President:
* Promulgation of the new Consortium agreement acceptable to the Bank
Other:
* Disbursement condition for Category 4 Transfers: Adoption of an Operating Manual for sub-
components 1.2 and 2.2, acceptable to the Bank
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[xl The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Elsie Garfield
Country Manager/Director     s Solimano



Annex 1-A
Program Design Summary
Colombia: Program for Development and Peace in the Magdalena Medio Region
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
A successful program in the
Promote peace and                                        National and municipal       Magdalena Medio Region will
development through a focus                              statistics                   contribute to the formulation
on the socio-economic                                                                 of a national peace and
determinants of violence                                 Joint assessments done by    development strategy, and will
National Planning Dept and    generate useful lessons for
the Bank                    programs in other parts of the
country, as well as for the
_    Bank's work in other parts of
the worrld.
Program Development                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                                                            The Govermnent will pursue
-Increase in number of                                  initiatives at the national and
Increased social capital and  households with an income of   Program's M&E system     international levels to reduce
empowered citizens lead to a    at least 2 minimum salaries                           armed conflict and combat the
significant reduction in    --Increased coverage and     Consortium's annual reports   drug trade.
poverty and increase in     quality of basic education and   on the Program
peaceful coexistence in the  health services                                          Other Bank supported
Magdalena Medio Region      --Decrease in homicides                                   programs (e.g. land reform,
--Climate of good will between                          rural education) and projects
citizens and authorities                                 (e.g. youth development, urban
violence) are successful.
Outputs:                    Size and membership of       Program's M&E system        (Outputs to Objective)
citizens network                                         A learning organization
A 10 year, community-led                                 Survey of organizations active   capable of: (i) mobilizing
multisectoral development   Satisfaction of citizens and  in the region               citizens for a participatory
program for Magdalena Medio  authorities with the Program                             development process, (ii)
based on proposals agreed                                Municipal Development Plans  responding to local initiatives
upon by citizens and        Increased amount of                                       by acting as a catalyst among
authorities at the municipal  development resources for the   National Planning       key stakeholders, and (iii)
(29), sub-regional and regional  region                  Department's poverty and     promoting development
level.                                                   human development reports    partnerships between the
Increased number of                                      public sector, private sector
organizations acting in the                              and civil society.
region with their own
resources                                                Continued central Government
support to a program led by a
Poverty index and human                                  Consortium of NGOs.
development index (municipal
level)                                                   The commitment and resource
contributions of citizens,
organized groups and
municipalities are sustained
over time.
The armed groups respect the
_  process



Inputs:                                                                               (Inputs to Outputs)
A scaling up of the Program in  Triggers for scaling utp.  Program's M&E system
two to three phases in which
the scope and size of
investments and emphasis on
economic activities would
increase in line with growing
implementation capacity of
communities and local
authorities and the improving
security situation which would
improve the investment
climate.



Annex 1-B
Project Design Summary
Colombia: Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote peace and                                        (see Annex 1-A)              (see Annex 1-A)
development through a focus
on the socio-economic
determinants of violence
The Government will pursue
Program Development         --Increase in number of      Program's M&E system         initiatives at the national and
Objective:                  households with an income of                              inteCnational levels to reduce
Increased social capital and  at least 2 minimum salaries  Consortium's annual reports   armed conflict and combat the
empowered citizens lead to a    --Increased coverage and  on the Program              drug trade.
significant reduction in    quality of basic education and
poverty and increase in      health services                                          Other Bank supported
peaceful coexistence in the  --Decrease in homicides                                  programs (e.g. land reform,
Magdalena Medio Region      --Climate of good will between                           rural education) and projects
citizens and authorities.                                (e.g. youth development, urban
violence) are successful.
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Perception of beneficiaries and  M&E system: quarterly   The armed groups respect the
Develop the operational     stakeholders that the program,  formative evaluation reports, 3  process.
capacity of the Consortium,  of which LIL is second phase,  external evaluation reports,
citizens network and other  is operating satisfactorily and   and M&E of individual sub-
partners to work together   that benefits are being realized  projects.
towards collectively defined
objectives to reduce poverty  No. of partnerships established  Consortium's annual progress
and increase peaceful       and resources contributed    reports
coexistence in the Magdalena
Medio Region.               Financial and human resources
contributed by municipalities
and others to support sub-
projects
Social organization increased
and strengthened in at least 5
of the 29 municipalities



Outputs:                                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
1. The Consortium develops    Budget implementation       Semi-annual plans             ECOPETROL's financial
its capacity to move from a  rate/vs. planned                                           support to the program does
participatory planning mode to                             Consortium's annual progress   not decline due to recent
an operational mode,         Perception of Consorlium staff  reports                    financial problems and/or a re-
characterized by: (i) acting as   and donors                                            examination of its role in the
a catalyst (promoter,                                                                   program
intermediary, adviser and    Perception of beneficiaries,
financier) among relevant    partners (particularly                                     The Consortium limits its
beneficiaries and stakeholders;  municipal authorities), and                            commitments (number of
(ii) translating local initiatives  general public in the region:                       activities, donors) to a level
into viable action plans and  knowledge and opinion about                               which matches its operational
investments; (iii) promoting    program, program's image,                               capacity so that it can
the establishment of effective    and examples of successes                             successfully implement the
partnerships with other      and/or failures.                                           LE.
organizations to support
development initiatives, and
(iv) dealing effectively with the
diverse interests of key
stakeholders in the region.
2. Citizens network          *  Size/composition of the    M&E Reports                  The approach is acceptable to
established, influencing public  network                                                the citizens and authorities.
affairs and implementing     *  Representation of network   Consortium's annual progress
development sub-projects     members in formal citizens    reports                      Partnerships are viable despite
based on local initiatives.  forums (CMDR, etc.)                                        lack of trust and adverse
*  Nucleos established and                                and/or deteriorating working
functioning in majority of                                conditions in the region.
municipalities (number of
nucleos regularly operating
with a nucleo plan)
* Documented lessons on
how to strengthen community
capacity in a context of intense
conflict
3. Approaches have been      Findings concerning
developed, tested and        effectiveness of strategies and   M&E reports, particularly
documented of how to bring   approaches in various areas   extemal evaluation
together community processes   such as primary health and
and resources around specific   basic education tested under
development initiatives agreed  the LIL.
upon by citizens and
authorities of selected      % of sub-projects implemented
municipalities or sub-regions    with positive results
of the Region.                                  .



Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                                    (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2    component)
for project description)
US$3.0 million to fund      Semi-annual plans and        Timely availability of funds.
1. Capacity Building for    Consortium's core staff,    implementation reviews prior
Program Management          incremental operating costs,   to plan approval
equipment, training,
1.1 Consortium as Change    consulting services; and     Consortium's annual progress
Agent and Program Manager   equipment, training and      reports
technical assistance to
1.2. Citizens Network       strengthen the citizen's
network including grants to
finance the nucleo plans.
2. Sub-Projects
Technical support (component  US$2.0 million to fund     Semi-annual plans and        Municipalities and
2. i) and grants (component    consulting services to prepare  implementation reviews prior   communities commit resources
2.2) for the preparation and  sub-projects and grants for  to plan approval           to cofinance sub-projects
implementation of specific  implementation of sub-projects
sub-projects in selected    by communities with partners   Consortium's annual progress
municipalities and subregions   such as municipalities and  reports
___________________   N GO s.



Annex 2
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Project Description
Project Component 1: Capacity Building for Program Management - US$2.5 million
The objective of the component is to build the capacity of the Consortium and Citizen's Network to
implement the Program for Development and Peace. This capacity building is for purposes of carrying out
the Program, therefore, if by the end of the LIL, a new regional entity has been established to take the place
of the Consortium, the assets and knowledge gained during the LIL will be passed on by the Consortium to
the new entity.
Sub-Component 1.1: Consortium as Change Agent and Program Manager - US$2.7 million
The objective of this sub-component is to develop the Consortium's capacity to move from a participatory
planning mode to an operational mode characterized by: (i) acting as a catalyst (promoter, intermediary,
advisor and financier) among relevant beneficiaries and stakeholders; (ii) translating local initiatives into
viable action plans and investments; (iii) promoting the establishment of effective partnerships with other
organizations to support development initiatives; and (iv) dealing effectively with the diverse interests of
key stakeholders in the region. In order to achieve this, the sub-component would include the following
types of activities:
* Consortium's Functions as Change Agent and Manager. The project will support the Consortium's
change agent functions of mobilization and technical support to the citizen's network, municipalities and
local communities; communications within and outside the region; and outreach to potential partners and
financiers of the program. It will also support the definition and putting in place of an intemal organization
appropriate for the program's characteristics, and adequate administrative and financial management
systems so that the Consortium will be able to gear up its activity for the program's next phase and meet
requirements of the Colombian government, B3ank and other potential donors. It is expected that the design
of the next phase will evolve out of the experitence of the LIL and not involve a study prepared by external
consultants. However, additional preparation activities may be required and will be- identified by the end of
the first year of the LIL. Funds will be provided for the incremental costs of the offices inB-ogota,
Barrancabermeja, and 8 small sub-regional offices including the costs of essential full-time staff, consultant
services (including the annual financial audit and environmental assessment for the next phase) and fees
related to partnerships, training, study tours and workshops, equipment, production costs for videos-radio
spots-newsletters, and operating costs.
* Strategy Development. As part of the Consortium's change agent role and to complement the work of its
technical team, the project would finance consulting services for the development of regional strategies to
guide the program's approach in key areas. For example, work will done to elaborate a regional strategy
for secondary education (grades 10 and 11) for which there is no clearly defined national strategy; the
strategy will emphasize preparing students for adult life including remunerative work.
* Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning System. A critical project activity is the putting in place of the
monitoring, evaluation and leaming system which will include an intemal system integrated into the
program's organization and the participatory process, and an external mechanism based on periodic
assessments by an independent evaluator. The project will also support the collection of a broader set of
baseline data (qualitative and quantitative) than required by the LIL in order to have adequate information to
assess the impact of the full, long-term program. To carry out these activities, the project will finance the
establishment of a specific working group within the Consortium to support M&E (staffing, equipment and



operating costs) as well as the costs of putting in place the system including training of Consortium staff,
nucleo and sub-project participants; learning events; and surveys/data collection. ' It will also finance the
extemal evaluation (consultants and workshops) which will be undertaken every 8 months.
Sub-Component 1.2: Citizen's Network - US$0.3 million
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the Citizen's Network so that it is capable of
influencing public affairs and implementing development projects based on local initiatives. The network is
a voluntary association of citizens and organizations which has its base in nucleos in each municipality,
representatives of nucleos in the nodo at the sub-regional level, and representatives of nodos at the regional
level. It has a central role in program implementation and is considered by the Consortium as a vehicle for
building social capital in the region.
The project will support activities to build capacity of the network, particularly at the municipal level,
through the participatory process for planning, design and implementation of projects, and monitoring,
evaluation and learning. It will also support the network's activities to improve communication within the
region in order to develop a regional identity and vision, and to develop an adequate information base for
decisionmaking and sub-project design. The project will fund various learning events (workshops, training,
study tours and exchanges both within and outside the region); communications activities (radio,
newsletters, equipment, supplies, and minor operating costs); and small grants to municipal nucleos to
cover the cost of carrying out six month work plans (nucleo plans) which is not expected to exceed
US$2,000 per nucleo plan.
Project Component 2: Sub-Projects - US$2.0 million
The objective of this component is to develop, test and document approaches which bring together
community processes and resources around specific development initiatives agreed upon by citizens and
authorities of selected municipalities or sub-regions of Magdalena Medio. The project will provide
technical assistance to transform initiatives into sub-projects (sub-component 2.1) and grants to finance a
proportion of the costs of specific sub-projects (sub-component 2.2). Strategies and sub-projects are at
various stages of development in the following areas identified as priorities by communities: education,
health, environment, economic development (including road maintenance), peaceful coexistence (including
community justice), and institutional development (municipalities, forums for citizen participation).
Sub-Component 2.1: Technical Assistance for Sub-Project Preparation (US$0.5 million)
Under this sub-component, technical support will be provided to a community to develop a specific
development initiative or sub-project. It will finance activities such as: technical advice, feasibility and
design studies (mainly for economic and infrastructure projects), building of management capacity, and
establishing links with potential partners and financiers. This would not include the technical support by
Consortium personnel (included under sub-component 1.1 above), but rather specific support provided by
third parties which is requested by the nucleo or community proposing the initiative. Part of the learning
and innovation will be to explore mechanisms for providing this assistance under various conditions, for
example weak community capacity and sophisticated technical content of the initiative. Different
alternatives will be tried such as: the Consortium contracting directly a third party (on behalf of the
community) to provide the services; and financing the technical assistance as a sub-project through the
'The cost of ME activities carried out in the municipalities by the citizens network or in the context of a specific sub-project would
be incorporated into the cost of the nucleo plan or sub-project. The first would be covered under component 1.2 and the second
under sub-component 2.2



grant mechanism (sub-component 2.2) with direct management by the community. The aim is to identify
workable mechanisms for keeping the community in control of the project design process, while ensuring
good technical design and adequate supervision of consultants.
Sub-Component 2.2: Sub-Projects - US$1L.5 million
The project will finance a proportion of the costs (services of consultants and NGOs, local operating costs,
equipment and minor civil works) of specific sub-projects which are expected to cost less than US$50,000.
The sub-component will have a phased approach (a "LIL within a LIL"): financing would begin in
strategic areas such as education, health and environment which are well defined, and new areas would be
phased in based on two criteria: the strategy is ready, and the implementation capacity of the Consortium
and communities is judged sufficient to expand the component's scope. For each strategic area, a specific
set of questions and lessons to be learned will be identified prior to financing any sub-projects, and
subsequently will be monitored and evaluated. As an initial condition for disbursements for the sub-
component, basic guidelines for eligibility, cost sharing and accountability for the sub-projects as well as
the decision rules for phasing in new strategic areas will be prepared in the form of an Operating Manual
acceptable to the Bank. The Manual will be adjusted during the project to incorporate the lessons learned.



Annex 3
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Proiect Component
Bank       Government*    Total
1. Capacity Building for Program Management
1.1 Consortium as Change Agent and Program Manager          2.32           0.30         2.62
1.2 Citizen's Network                                       0.30           0.20         0.50
Sub-Total                                                   3.62           0.50          3.12
2. Sub-Projects
2.1 Technical Assistance for Sub-Project Preparation        0.25           0.25          0.50
2.2 Sub-Projects                                            1.75           0.75          2.25
Sub-Total                                                   2.00           1.25          2.75
Refinancing of PPF**                                        0.38           0             0.38
Total Proiect Cost                                          5.00           1.25          6.25
* Govermment column includes the financing provided by ECOPETROL.
** PPF refinancing included under Component 1.1 in other tables.



Annex 4
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Procurement ancl Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
GeneraL Procurement of goods, works and consulting services would be carried out in accordance with,
respectively, the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, and the Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. The procurement arrangements for the project components are described below and
summarized in Tables A and B.
An agreement acceptable to the Bank for prov:ision of administrative and procurement services would be
negotiated with UNDP. This would be a transitional arrangement while the Consortium strengthens its
capacity so that it can take over fully program management after completion of the LIL. The UNDP
agreement would be a Nationally Executed Cost Sharing Project that would include the standard annexes
indicating that Bank procurement and financial management requirements would be followed.
Goods. Contracts for goods are expected to be very small; thus ICB is not an option and NCB unlikely;
thus, contracts valued at less than $100,000 would be awarded through national shopping procedures.
Consultants' Services. The project would finance consulting services for preparation of studies, technical
assistance, design of information campaigns to promote community participation and for provision of
training. It would also finance contracts for fixed-term core staff in the Consortium and long-term
technical experts. Considering the unique characteristics of the project, the existing constraints related to
security conditions in the area and the expertise sought that implies knowledge as well as degree of
involvement with the individual communities, the Consortium would seek to form partnerships with and/or
hire experienced experts or entities from the private sector, universities, local institutions and NGOs.
Operating Costs. These expenditures will be clisbursed on the basis of a semi-annual plan acceptable to
the Bank. Goods and services under this category, listed in Table C, will be contracted out or paid by the
Agent or the Consortium, as the case may be, on the basis of actual costs using reasonable rates.
Transfers. There will be two types of transfers: (a) for Nucleo plans, and (b) for Sub-projects. Unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank, the transfers will not exceed $2,000 per Nucleo plan and $50,000 per Sub-
project. Inaividual contracts for goods, works and services financed by the transfers are thus expected to
be small (below $30,000 in the case of the sub-projects). Transfers would be awarded in accordance with
the criteria and procedures outlined in the Operating Manual agreed with the Bank; such procedures would
require in each case that acquisitions be made on the basis of comparison of price quotations allowing for
sole sourcing when shopping is not feasible. Standard agreements acceptable to the Bank would be used to
transfer the funds to implementing community groups under conditions that ensure adequate
implementation; the standard text for the agreements would be contained in the Operating Manual. The
value of contracts under the transfers has not been included in the aggregate limits indicated in Table B.
Prior Review. Table B summarizes the prior EBank review which represents about 30% of the loan amount.
The Consortium would be delegated to conduct prior review of all acquisitions made under the Transfers.
Supervision missions would conduct post-review on the agreed procedures.



Disbursement
A two and one-half year period for loan disbursement is estimated with effectiveness expected in July 1998
and a loan Closing Date of December 31, 2000. However, due to the characteristics of the LIL, it is
possible that disbursements will be somewhat faster or slower. The semi-annual plans will be the
mechanism for making disbursement estimates and measuring disbursement performance. The allocation of
loan proceeds is indicated in Table C of this annex. The Bank loan would 100 percent of all eligible project
expenditures not financed by counterpart funds or co-financiers with the exception of Category 1 Goods
and Category 3 Operating Costs.
A UNDP Cost Sharing Project (CSP) document acceptable to the Bank will include the procedures and respective
responsibilities of DNP, the Ministry of Finance, the Consortium for loan disbursements. Disbursements will be
made on the basis of UNDP's statements of expenditure; an initial advance of up to 6 months expenditures will be
provided to UNDP based on the CSP.



Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$thousand equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Goods
Office Equipment and            -           -          50.0"         -            50.0
Vehicles                                              (50.0)                     (50.0)
2. Consultancy Services
2.1 Consortium Services         -           -         975.0'         -           975.0
(Core Staff in Bogota,                               (975.0)                    (975.0)
Barrancabermeja and
Sub-Regions)
2.2 Studies and Technical       -           -        1,745.03'       -          1,745.0
Assistance                                          (1,745.0)                  (1,745.0)
2.3 UNDP Services               -           -         120.04'        -           120.0
(120.0)                    (120.0)
3. Miscellaneous
3.1 Transfers for Nucleo                                 200.051                    200.0
plans
(200.0)     .              (200.0)
3.2 Transfers for                                      1,700.0"   ~        -      1,700.0
Sub-projects                                            (700.0)                    (700.0)
3.3 Operating Costs                                      830.0                      830.0
( recurrent costs, radio ads,   -           -        (830.0)         -          (830.0)
newsletters, information
campaigns)
4. PPF Repavment                                                                    380.0
Total                                               5,620.0                    6,000.0
(4,620.0)                  (5,000.0)
1. Shopping procedures
2. Individual consultants according to Section V of Consultants' Guidelines
3. Fixed budget, consultant qualifications, and sole sourcing
4. Sole source
5. Transfers awarded to beneficiaries in accord with procedures in Operating Manual acceptable to the Bank.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan



Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                              US $ thousands
1. Works                        >100                NCB                     all/O
<100         National Shopping              None
2. Goods                       >100                 NCB                     allV0
<100          National Shopping             None
3. Services
(a) Consulting               >200                QCBS                    AlVIO
Firrns"
100 to 200  Fixed Budget                all/245
<100        Consultant             all sole source/300
Qualifications/Sole
source
(b) Individuals2'             >40         According to Section V      all/1,000
of Consultants'
Guidelines
<40         According to Section V   Review of TORs only
of Consultants'
Guidelines
4. Transfers                <50,000         Procedures in                 None3'
Operating Manual
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  1,545
"Contracts over US$100,000 are subject to prior review.
21 Contracts for individuals over US$40,000 and those considered of a critical nature are subject to prior review.
3/ Prior review would be carried out by the Consortium.



Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$thousands
1. Goods                                               40.0               90
2. Consultancy Services: Consortium                 2,000.0              100
Services, Technical Assistance & Studies
3. Operating Costs"                                   700.0               90
4. Transfers                                        1,600.0              100 of transfer
5. PPF Repayment                                      380.0
6. Unallocated                                        280.0
'rotal         5,000.0
1/ Includes radio ads, newsletters, information campaigns, office and training supplies (including
foodstuffs for training sessions), rents, utilities, fuel, communications (including telephone and
postal services) , travel expenditures including study tours and training (including transportation and
per diem).



Annex 5
Social Assessment
Origins of the Program for Development and Peace in Magdalena Medio (PDPMM)
The idea for this Program originated from a proposal by the Catholic Diocese of Barrancabermeja
and its network of community workers (Pastoral Social) to the national oil company (ECOPETROL) to
find solutions to the increasing incidence of violence and poverty in the Magdalena Medio region which the
national and local governments had been unable to address. The idea was taken up and supported in mid-
1994 by the Committee on Human Rights of ECOPETROL and the Oil Workers Union (USO) who
proposed the involvement of SEAP (Society of Economists Friends of the Country) and CINEP (Center for
Research and Popular Education) two well-respected and long-established Colombian non-governmental
organizations. Representatives of the four entities worked for six months to formulate the idea and
subsequently in February 1995 the Board of Directors of ECOPETROL approved the allocation of
US$500,000 for the initial, diagnostic phase of program preparation. The prestige, strong convening
powers and technical excellence of the groups that allied themselves to bring about this program convinced
the central Government to endorse this initiative as a pilot partnership between the public and private
sectors and civil society. The National Planning Department formally requested Bank support for the
program in April 1996.1
Characteristics of the Region and Key Stakeholders
Magdalena Medio is the birthplace of the petroleum industry in Colombia, a strategic
transportation corridor, and is considered the second most violent region of the country. The diagnostic
work carried out by the Consortium SEAP-CINEP has identified a number of perverse dynamics
explaining the prevailing poverty and violence in this region which has abundant natural resources
including oil, gas, gold, and water. The region does not correspond to a single political-administrative unit.
It is composed of 29 municipalities located in 4 Departments (Antioquia, Santander, Bolivar and Cesar)
which share the following characteristics: proximity to the Magdalena River and its culture, influence of
the petroleum industry and importance of ECOPETROL, recent settlement (major influx in 195 Os) from
other regions of Colombia, inattention from the Departments in which the municipalities are located, and a
high level of armed conflict and violence (homicide rate double that of Colombia). A majority of the
population of 715, 862 is considered rural, while 34% of the people live in two cities, Barrancabermeja
and Aguachica.
Despite the fact that the oil industry generates about US$ 2 billion annually in the region, 70% of
the population (400,000) fall below the poverty line and 53% have Unmet Basic Needs (NBI). An
extractive economy predominates (oil, gold, livestock) which generates little value added in the region (only
4.5% of the value of petroleum/gas production stays in the region) and which does not generate sufficient
employment and adequate incomes for the most of the population. Severe environmental problems have
resulted in serious declines in productivity of key economic activities such as fishing and peasant
agriculture. ECOPETROL and the national government spend enormous amounts on security, yet violence
increases with conflicts over territory between paramilitary groups, guerrillas and the Army.
A crucial factor at the root of many of these dynamics is the virtual absence of the state as a
regulator and promoter of social and economic processes and guarantor of security and peace for the
region's citizens. The main state presence in the region is ECOPETROL which has played mostly a
marginal and reactive role in its relations with the communities and maintained an enclave approach to the
' Subsequently, when the Consortium SEAP-CINEP's contract with ECOPETROL ended in May 1998, SEAP
withdrew from the Consortium and a new Consortium was formed by CINEP and the Diocese of Barrancabermeja,
one of the initiators of the Program.



location and operation of its oil installations. ECOPETROL's main interest in its community relations
activities has been the security of its installations with a strong focus on military protection; community
relations activities have been limited to the municipalities and communities where its installations are
located. Within ECOPETROL, there are different views about the program. Some managers and staff see
the Magdalena Medio program as a learning exercise which could reorient the company's community
relations and security strategies leading to: savings for the company both in direct security expenditures
and losses due to theft and sabotage, an improved image in the region and better community relations, and a
broader contribution to the society at large. Another line of thinking in ECOPETROL puts less emphasis
on the company's social outreach efforts unless they can be clearly demonstrated to serve business
interests.
Another relevant public actor, the armed forces, has been mainly immersed in the conflict with the
guerrilla movements and has not contributed decisively to improving peace and security in the region. All
the major guerrilla movements in Colombia are active in Magdalena Medio; some groups had indicated
publicly their support for the program's approach in a meeting of the Commission for Peace Magdalena
Medio in September 1996. Paramilitary groups, alleged by human rights organizations to have links to the
military, now dominate certain parts of the region. Experts on violence in Colombia have linked the growth
of paramilitarism with a process of land accumulation and transformation of cultivated land into extensive
livestock operations.
The region has weak territorial administrations. The four Departments that have municipalities in
Magdalena Medio have by and large treated them as second class constituencies and have invested little in
their development. Most of the municipalities including those with extraordinary income derived from oil
revenues (regalias) show weak planning and adlministrative capacity, are overstaffed relative to fiscal
resources, serve a limited clientele and live in chronic fiscal crisis. Although the 1991 Constitution
emphasized participation and citizens rights, few mayors have encouraged citizen participation in
decisionmaking so most of the new forums for citizen participation mandated by law are not really
operational. The civil society is characterized as weak, with very limited capacity to influence the regional
political process and lacking shared values and a vision for the future. However, the diagnosis found that
while fragile, there are over 400 civil organizations in the region with a strong presence of women, human
rights and production-oriented groups. The participatory process which initiated preparation of the program
revealed enormous untapped potential and capacity of the people and organizations in the region.
Philosophy and Objectives of the Program
The underlying philosophy is to create a program that involves and reflects the concerns of all
stakeholders in the region. It is recognized that the problems of Magdalena Medio are complex and that
one can not achieve either poverty reduction or peace objectives without addressing both simultaneously.
The Church, ECOPETROL, and the Consortium would like to create a window of opportunity to resolve
the region's problems through a long-term (10 to 15 year), multi-sectoral program for development and
peace. The imperative for embarking on such a program now is reinforced by the recognition that oil
exploration and oil resources in Magdalena Medio are declining and that the income (regalias) received by
municipalities will decline; alternative revenue sources and sources of economic growth need to be created.
The overall objective of the program is to improve the well-being of the population with priority for
the poorest. In response to the lack of a base of strong institutions and civil society to carry out the
program, the Consortium made a crucial strategic decision: to make the building of civil society the single
most important objective of the program and to subordinate all processes related to the formulation and
implementation of the program to this objective. The two specific program objectives are:
(i) the building-up of civil society, including a citizen's network (red de pobladores) as
the main planner, executor and controller of the program activities; opening a dialogue
between various armed groups and citizens to find ways of resolving problems without



violence, strengthening of education (defined very broadly), and improvement of municipal
administrations; and
(ii) the eradication of poverty (improve the region's productive and social capital),
including strategies for increasing the region's appropriation of its surplus and promoting
"economic circuits" which will generate employment (with particular attention to small
farmers), improving infrastructure such as roads to facilitate economic activity and
communications within and outside the region, and preserving and restoring the
environment (reduce water pollution, restore wetlands reforestation, etc.).
The role of the Consortium in the Program is that of a leader and facilitator who works in partnership with
communities, local governments, NGOs, the private sector and central governnent agencies.
Participatory Methodology
The diagnostic phase combined analytical work by a team of experts with a participatory process
of consultation with communities and key stakeholders which was carried out using the already well-
established network of community workers of the Pastoral Social. During a six month period in late 1995-
early 1996, 1500 citizens participated in workshops in each of the 29 municipalities, 5 sub-regional
workshops and 3 regional seminars. This group of people represented a range of stakeholders, including
leaders of community organizations, men and women, all age groups (particularly youth and adults), staff
of local and regional NGOs and academic institutions, local government authorities, and representatives of
groups in conflict. The content of the program and specific investments to be financed is being defined
through an interactive process between the communities (with the citizen's network constituted from the
1500 people who participated in the diagnostic phase playing a key role) and the Consortium as the
program's implementing agency.
Municipal proposals, initiatives and sub-projects. The Consortium has designed and is currently
applying a methodology for arriving at agreement among key stakeholders in each municipality around
long-term development priorities (municipal proposals) and specific activities and investments to begin to
address the long-term priorities (initiatives and sub-projects). One of the objectives of the LIL is to test and
refine the methodology. The generic steps of the methodology, which is adapted to the specific conditions of
each municipality are as follows:
*  promotion of the program in the communities of each municipality
*  establishment of a core group (nucleo) of citizens and community organizations to mobilize the
community
*  identification of priority needs and ideas of how to approach those needs (initiatives)
*  development of the ideas in work groups (mesas de trabajo) for each initiative, with the participation
of citizens and technical staff
*  selection of the most promising initiatives based on two criteria: consensus around them, and strategic
value in terms of the program's long-term objectives
*  technical assistance to determine the technical, financial and political viability of the initiative and to
transform it into a sub-project
*  consensus and commitments around a municipal proposal composed of several sub-projects.
The nucleos constitute the base, at the municipal level, of the citizens network. Each nucleo will prepare
and manage a six month plan of action for its own development as a group, including learning events on
how to participate and promote participation, how to approach and negotiate with local authorities,
mechanisms for conflict resolution and initiative-specific work sessions. This plan is expected to contribute
to the creation of social capital and to enhance community self-management.



Interaction between citizens and change agents. The technical assistance provided by NGO's,
consultants or Consortium staff will follow a client-centered approach, consistent with recommended
organizational development methods. These change agents will provide: advice on process, technical
assistance to assess the viability of initiatives (can they be transformed into a sustainable sub-project), and
problem-solving guidance on specific sub-project matters. However, consistent with the overall
participatory approach, their interventions will be made in a way that enhances knowledge and
understanding, contributes to project development, and allows the beneficiaries to maintain control of the
community development process. How to achieve this balance between participation-community control
and specialized technical support is one of the central learnings under the LIL.
Participation in Project Design. The participatory process has heavily influenced the design of
the project in various ways. First, the establishment of the core groups (nucleos) as the vehicle for
community mobilization, needs assessment, identification of initiatives, preparation and implementation of
six month plans, determines to a great extent the structure and operation of the project. In effect, these core
groups, which form the citizens network, becorne the counterparts for Consortium staff working in the 8
sub-regions. In turn, the rest of the institutiona]l[ structure has to organize itself to support the regional team.
Second, the local process to prepare a municipal proposal creates a demand-driven approach to which the
Consortium has to respond by designing flexibl[e strategies in key areas to, on the one hand, provide a
strategic direction, and on the other, to deal wilh the diversity of needs and concerns throughout the region.
Third, the complexity of the political conflict in the region requires the development of a careful
communications strategy in the region to keep all the critical stakeholders well informed. This implies,
direct communication by the Consortium team with the armed groups in a variety of informal ways to
guarantee that they all are equally aware of the program activities, as well as general public information to
present the program as a positive yet neutral player in the region. Finally, the participatory process dictates
that the pace of implementation will be determined by the degree of consensus and the readiness of citizens
and local authorities which will vary a lot amonig the 29 municipalities and over time.
Social Viability of the Project
Even though the intense conflict in the region represents the major substantial risk for the project,
the systematic participation and involvement of citizens represents the best shield against this risk. There is
evidence in various regions of Colombia that a concerted, strong and politically neutral citizens movement
to promote peace and self-help is usually, over time, respected by the armed groups. The citizens are
usually considered the constituency of the various groups in conflict which claim to work for their well-
being. If the citizens decide to remain outside of the camps in conflict, those camps have to look for support
elsewhere. This has been the clear lesson of La India, one of the small territories participating in the
Magdalena Medio program. Thus, the prestige of the Consortium, direct information and consultation with
the groups in conflict, the decision of the citizens to remain outside of the conflict and work towards their
own development are factors that reduce the interference of the armed political conflict and increase the
probability of success of the project.



Annex 6
Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning System
Monitoring, evaluation and learning are a central aspect of this project and the Learning and
Innovation loan. These functions will be woven into the Consortium's structure and into the participatory
process itself, so that rather than being a separate activity carried out by an isolated group, it will be a part
of the program's regular operations and will generate continuous learning. Due to the nature of the LIL
outputs, the M&E will rely strongly on qualitative methodologies. The design of the monitoring,
evaluation and learning system itself will also be an object of testing and learning during the course of the
LIL.
Organizational Structure of the System. The system will include an internal component of
formative evaluation carried out by the Consortium and three external assessments carried out at eight-
month intervals by an independent evaluator. The system will operate at three levels during the LIL (see
diagram 1). At the national level, the coordinator will work in the Consortium's planning unit and will
provide overall technical guidance and support. A regional M&E group will be formed in the
Consortium's Barrancabermeja office which will be responsible for operationalizing the system including
developing the instruments, carrying out key activities such as construction of the baseline and the
trimestrial monitoring, and training others in use of the methods. At the local level, communities and
nucleos will be carry out the M&E of specific sub-projects. As the system develops, the role of the
Consortium's sub-regional delegates and the nucleos will expand as the number of sub-projects and
municipalities where sub-projects are being carried out increases.
Components of the System. The monitoring, evaluation and learning system under the LIL will
consist of three components:
*  Formative Evaluation will be carried out by the Consortium and is intended to inform the
Consortium management about implementation so that adjustments can be made during the course of
the project. It will focus on: assessing the state of the project/program and factors which explain it,
identifying problems and difficulties, identifying positive and negative experiences which generate
information on how to strengthen capacity, and examining how different contexts affect
implementation and require adaptations. Initially, formative evaluation will be carried out at three
months intervals by the Regional M&E team.
*  Periodic External Assessments. During the course of LIL, three external assessments by an
independent evaluator will be carried out at eight month intervals. The scope will be a bit broader than
the formative evaluation, including the examination of factors which could facilitate or impede the
Program's impact. The detailed Terms-of-Reference for the assessment will be developed during the
first four months of the LIL and would include basic questions such as: is the LIL generating lessons,
are the activities and methodology being used by the Consortium adequate to have the impact sought
by the long-term program, and is the M&E system adequately contributing to adjustments in the
project.
*  Baseline for Evaluation of Program Impact. The project will also support the collection of a broader
set of baseline data (qualitative and quantitative) than required by the LIL in order to have adequate
information to later assess the impact of the full, long-term program.



DIAGRAM N" 1
I UNIDAD DE PLANEA CION                               COORDINADOR
F                                                             NACIONAL
U                                                          7
N  ||                         Planeaci6n tecnica y operativa
CComunicacion de resultados
I                                          ~~~~~~~~GRUPO REGIONAL
Desarrollo de herramientas
0                              Ajuste del modelo
N                     Capacitacion metodologica
Puesta en marcha
Asistencia  Tecnica-
S.
Monitoreo y evaluaci6n de              SECTORDE LA
subproyectos locales             SECOMUNIDAD
COMUIDA



An important aspect of the first two activities will be the dissemination of findings through learning
events.
Formative Evaluation. The key question to be answered by the formative evaluation is: how is
the program functioning. It focuses on the Consortium's methodology for action, relating the form of
intervention and the results in order to learn about the implementation process. This will be looked at
from two dimensions (see diagram 2):
* the global (see diagram 3): the program is based on a methodology which assumes that through a
participatory process it is possible to develop regional and local capacity in the conflictive environment of
the Magdalena Medio region. The following aspects will examined: (i) the development of the
Consortium as a change agent; (ii) the process of community participation (e.g. what strategies are
successful in different contexts); (iii) the dynamic of social organization (e.g. successful strategies for
building and strengthening social organization and the citizen's network); and (iv) the application of the
Operating Manual.
*  the specific (see diagram 4) which largely relates to the second LIL component which supports sub-
projects in specific strategic areas such as primary education and health where a specific package of
interventions are being tested. The following aspects will be examined: (i) common lessons for areas of
education, health and environment (areas ready for start-up in the first six months of the LIL) as shown in
diagram 4 relating to developing an informed demand by citizens and communities for services, and a
response by the service provider which increases the coverage and quality of the service; (ii) the
Operating Manual; and (ii) M&E by communities of specific development-peace sub-projects.
Indicators. The formative evaluation will look at four aspects of the project/program which
remain in a permanent and dynamic relationship and which are tied to different types of variables, as
follows: (i) the intervention undertaken (activities and actions of the Consortium and others)--exogenous
variables; (ii) the short-term results produced--endogenous variables; (iii)
the unexpected results--lateral variables; and (iv) the situations or factors external to the program (socio-
political context) which can affect it at a moment in time--exogenous and non-manipulable variables.
The detailed indicators fall into the two broad categories and cover the following:
*  the exogenous or intervention variables include the development of the Consortium (covering its
various functions such as change agent, provider of technical assistance), the participatory
methodology/strategy; and the Operating Manual;
*  the endogenous variables or expected results in the short-term/LIL period are community
participation, social organization (of which the citizen's network is the highest expression), and the
image of the program (degree of ownership for example).
See the tables below concerning the indicators to be used. Indicators for specific sub-projects will be
developed with the communities involved.
Outputs. There will be a phased approach for putting in place the M&E and learning system
which would start in 5 municipalities during the first 3 months of the LIL; coverage would be gradually
expanded in accord with proposals contained in the Semi-Annual Plans. At a minimum, establishment of
the baseline situation for all 29 municipalities would be completed by the end of the second year of the
LIL. During the LIL, reports on the formative evaluation will be produced by the Consortium every 3
months, with the first being issued at the end of the fourth month of implementation (estimated to be



DIAGRAM No 2
MONITOREO Y EVALUACION
DIMEN STONES
EL PROGRAMA                 LAS AREAS DE ACCION
* o  GLOBALMENTE           Y LOS SUBPROYECTOS
A    b
e        JrEvaluador                         Evaluador     e
r                                      *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
V                                          : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
s c  l GRUPO  } '' 4stencia '  tecnica  COUND
EL MLJUNICIPIO                     EP                   n
{EL MUNIIPIO                      EL2,PROYECTO  .........n



DIAGRAM N03
MONITOREO Y EVALUACION
GRUPO REGIONAL I         DESEMPENO DEL         l
*  PROCESO DE PARTICIPACION COMUNITARIA I
|  1|    L-| ~~~DINAMICA DE ORGANIZACION SOCIAL|
l I I I Io
-~~~MNA OPRTV



DIAGRAM N04
MONITOREO Y EVALUACION
APRENDIZAJE COMUN SALUD)
GRUPO REGIONAL          EDUCACION
I valuadl
aluad               INVOLUCRAMIENTO OTRAS AREAS
tY SU BROY-ECTOS                  l
APRENDIZAJES ESPECIFICOS 
t Jr | SEGU~~IMIENTO YEVALUACION |
, ,1 ~~~SUBPROYECTOSl
7~MND



August-September 1998). Three reports will be produced by the external evaluator, with the first due by
the end of January 1999.
1. EXOGENOUSINTERVENTIONVARIABLES
VARIABLES                             DIMENSION                            INDICATORS
l. Development of Consortium's         A. Perception of overall development   *  Technical assistance: quality and
Capacity                                                                        management
*  Administrative role
Information Sources:                                                     a  Commitment to program
-Consortium personnel                                                    *  Decision-making capacity
-municipal nucleos                                                       *  Interrelations between the
-local population                                                            Consortium's internal
-members of organizations associated                                         organizational units
with sub-projects                                                      *  Most outstanding aspects of the
-other program partners                                                     -relations between the internal
-local authorities                                                           organizational units, the local
population and other partners
B. Technical development             *  Level and quality of change agent
role: accomplishments vs. change
of expectations
C. Administrative development        *  Efficiency in: hiring personnel;
ensuring an adequate availability of
equipment, resources,
disbursements; and in managing
administrative matters with external
entities
*  Obstacles and facilitating factors-
management of the former.
*  Adaptations and modifications of
the initial processes
*  Successful experiences



1. EXOGENOUSINTERVENTION VARIA4BLES (continued)
VARIABLES                              DIMENSION                             INDICATORS
D. Financial development              *  % of implementation of budget vs.
planned allocations
* % use of funds by source
*  Execution and timeliness of LIL
disbursements
* Obstacles and facilitating factors-
management of the former
* Adaptations and modifications of
the initial processes
* Successful experiences
. .                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Successful implementation
II. Participation Strategy and          A. Planned                                 strategies
Methodologies                                                                  srtge
Methodologies                                                     *  Unsuccessful implementation
strategies
Information Sources:0*  Obstacles and facilitating factors-
-Consortium  personnel                                                         management of the former
-Consortiu  pers                                                           *  Adaptations and modifications of
-local population                                                              the initially proposed processes
-members of organizations associated
with sub-projects
-other program partners
-local authorities
B. Unplaintned                        *  Successful implementation
strategies
*  Unsuccessful implementation
strategies
* Obstacles and facilitating factors-
management of the former
IIL Functionality of the Operational    A. Quality of the criteria and         *  Efficiency
Manual                                  paranieters                        *  Efficacy
* Realism
Information Sources
(same as described above)
B. Degree of compliance with criteria    *  Adjustment between plans vs.
accomplishments
* Adaptations made
* Criteria not applied
* Effects



2. ENDOGENOUS VARIABLES: EXPECTED AND UNEXPECTED (LATERAL) RESULTS
VARIABLES                             DIMENSION                           INDICATORS
I. Social Organization                 A. Perception of the community's     *  Perception of the levels of trust,
organization                         solidarity, initiative, willingness to
Information Sources:                                                         volunteer, willingness to express true
-municipal nucleos                                                          opinions/points of view, leadership,
-local population                                                           and equality among the various
-members of organizations associated                                        members
with sub-projects                                                      *  Assessment of the level of
-other program partners                                                     organization within the community
-local authorities
B. Degree of social organization in  *  Existing organizations: types,
the municipality, level of grassroots  longevity, size, etc.
participation                     *  Households covered by the local
organizations
* Frequency and level of attendance in
meetings
* What the program is able to offer
those organizations involved
* Motives and incentives to become
involved in the organization
* Contextual factors which make it
difficult to participate and remain
involved
* Commitment of the organizations to
the program
C. Individual and collective skills  *  Ability to work in groups, problem-
solve, mobilize resources, resolve
conflicts, establish work-related
networks with other individuals and
groups
* Planning and financial management
skills
* Links and cooperation with other
agencies
D. Strengthening of social          *  Characterization of: trust among all
organization                         members and in what they are doing,
unity, and initiative
* Regular attendance at meetings
* Capacity and development of all
involved
* Relationship with the local authority
* Commitment to the organization
* Contextual facts that create difficulty
and how these have been managed
* Successful experiences



2. ENDOGENOUS VARIABLES: EXPECTEDAND UNEXPECTED (LA TERAL) RESULTS (continued)
VARIABLES                             DIMENSION                           INDICATORS
E. Municipalnucleos                 *  Knowledge and importance of the
E. Municipal nucleos                   nucleo in the community
*  What the municipal nucleo offers the
community
*  Motives and incentives to join the
nucleo
*  Contextual factors which make the
role of the nucleos more difficult and
how these are managed
*  Facilitating factors
*  Community support to the nucleos
*  Successful experiences with the
nucleos
II. Community Participation            A. General participation             *  Proposals presented by the
A. General participationcommunities: identification of
priorities and selection
Information Sources:                                                     *  Sub-projects or actions initiated by
-municipal nucleos                                                          the community
-local population                                                       *  Sub-projects where the community
-members of organizations associated                                        contributes to its implementation:
with sub-projects                                                          money contribution (% of total cost),
-other program partners                                                     other contributions including-work,
-local authorities                                                          materials, services, covering general
expenses, control, authority), actors
who contribute to the implementation
(beneficiaries, NGO's, local
administration, etc.)
B. Participation per sub-project    *  Knowledge of the existence of a
project organization
*  Formal membership in the project's
organization
*  Frequency of meeting attendance
*  Change of size
*  Number of groups or associations
formed
*  Active member involvement in the
meetings
*  Number of work days contributed by
the members
*  Number of members who also
belong to other formal organizations
*  Increase in group capacity to propose
. and consider plans of action
*  Knowledge and understanding of the
governmental policies and laws



2. ENDOGENOUS VARLABLES: EXPECTEDAND UNEXPECTED (LA TERAL) RESULTS (continued)
VARIABLES                              DIMENSION                             INDICATORS
*  Changes in the relations among the
group members, staff and group
facilitator
*   Group autonomy-independent
actions taken by the group
C. Participation Dynamics             *  Group dynamics
*  Ways the various members take part
in group discussions and in group
decision-making
*  Ability to analyze and explain
possible solutions
*  Various ways of participating:
motives and objectives pursued
*  Aspects or events that mobilize a
population to demonstrate solidarity
and support
*  Aspects or events which encourage
problem-solving
*  Contextual factors which increased
the difficulty and how these were
managed. Also, factors which
facilitate the situation
*  Successful experiences



2. ENDOGENOUS VARIABLES: EXPECTELDAND UNEXPECTED (LATERAL) RESULTS (continued)
A. Knowledge and opinion of the     *  Knowledge of the program.-
III. Program Imnge                        Prograni                             specific aspects identifying it
*  Knowledge of the municipal nucleos
*  Knowledge of the Citizen's Network:
factors which facilitate its formation
Information Sources:                                                         and factors which make it more
- Consortium personnel                                                     difficult/resistance
- local population                                                      *  How the program is affected by
- municipal nucleos                                                         municipal nucleos, the delegates, the
- members of organizations associated                                       Consortium and other agents
with sub-projects                                                      *  Contextual factors which make the
- other program partners                                                    development of the program more
- local authorities                                                         difficult
*  Community support for the program
*  Successful experiences of the
program
*  Commitment to the program by the
community and local authorities
B. The Program's image              *  The significance of the Program
*  Program's raison d'etre
*  Motives and incentives to accept it
and continue
*  Importance of the nucleos and of the
delegate
*  What the Program is able to provide
to the community
*  Citizen Network's raison d'dtre and
importance
*  The future of the Program
*  Possibilities for the network's
success-future vision
IV. Unexpected Results                 A. Positive! results                *  Capacity building
*  Capacity transfer into other areas
*  Changes
B. Negative results                 *  Any type of negative change
C. Other results                    *  Any change which does not seem
connected or related to the Program,
but which occurred during the same
._____________________________________ ___________________________________  period



3. CONTEXTUAL VARIABLES, THOSE WHICHCOULDNOTBEMANIPULA TEDBY
THE PROGRAM
VARIABLES                              DIMENSION                            INDICATORS
I. Contextual Factors                   A. General Contextual Factors         *  Cultural, demographic, political and
economic aspects which came up
*  Support level from the community
*  Characteristics of the population
which was directly involved
*  Turbulent and unstable environment
B. Local Factors                     *  Resources
*  Previous experiences
*  Existing practical experience
*  Barriers related to norms and values
4. SPECIFIC INDICATORSAND VARIABLES. This aims to analyze the indicators related to the
expected results from the learning hypothesis in the identified action areas--education, health and environment.
Specific Monitoring and Evaluation indicators for individual sub-projects will be designed by the community
associated with the sub-project.
VARIABLES                              DIMENSION                            INDICATORS
I. Quality and coverage of services for    A  Demand for service b the       *  Knowledge of rights to services;
health, education and environment       community          Y                  level of importance given to this by
community                  ~~~~community
Information Sources:                                                       a  Motives and incentives to become
- Sub-project stakeholders                                                    part of the user organizations
*  Contextual factors which make the
organization's role difficult--
management of these
*  Community support of the
organization
*  The organization's successful
experiences
*  Level and quality of implementation:
accomplishments vs. expectations
*  Successful implementation strategies
*  Characteristics of the service
B. Service delivery by entities          delivery: actual coverage vs.
responsible                              demand
*  Quality of the services rendered,
timeliness and stability
*  Problems encountered by the agency
in service delivery
*  Contextual factors which make the
agency's role more difficult-
management of these
*  Facilitating factors
*  Relationship between the agency and
the community



Annex 7
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(FY98 budget)
105,000              126,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                9
First Bank mission (identification)                                   9/5/1997*
Appraisal mission departure                       3/15/98              3/15/98
Negotiations                                      4/8/98               6/9/98)
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    6/15/98              (7/30/98)
Prepared by: Consortium SEAP-CINEP (at request of National Planning Department)
Preparation assistance: PPF $380,000; P1RW $800,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Elsie Garfield                             Team Leader
Jairo Arboleda                  Deputy Team Leader, Social Analysis
Martha Laverde                             Social Sectors
Mauricio Cuellar                            Infrastructure
Natalia Gomez                          Economic Development
Felipe Saez                       Economic, Legal, Institutional
Comelis de Haan                    Livestock and Production Systems
Anders Rudqvist                       Monitoring and Evaluation
Maria Elena Castro                          Social Analysis
Carmen Nielsen                              Procurement
Roberto Cucullu                           Country Lawyer
Steven Holtzman                            Peer Reviewer
Howard Jones                     Financial Management (Consultant)
*The initial Bank identification mission was 8/96 which resulted in PPF and Japanese Grant approval. The
LIL option became available in 9/97.



Annex 8
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Diagnostic Studies prepared by Consortium SEAP-CINEP, May 1996 (ECOPETROL financing)
Documento Central de Diagn6stico, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones, Francisco J. de Roux.
Aproximacion a la Realidad del Magdalena Medio, Unidad de Convivencia y Paz, Ubencel Duque Rojas.
Diagn6stico Agropecuario y Rural del Magdalena Medio, Absal6n Machado y Luis Hemando Briceno.
Diagnostico Propositivo: Unidad de Politica y Gesti6n Institucional, Luz Stella Vargas Hemandez.
El Petr6leo en el Magdalena Medio, Francisco J. de Roux.
El Magdalena Medio: Una Regi6n Que se Construye Por el Rio, Amparo Cadavid Bringe.
Factores Determinantes de la Acumulacion de Capital Social en la Regi6n del Magdalena
Medio y sus Perspectivas, Gabriel Misas Arango.
Unidad de Desarrollo Humano: Diagn6stico, Diego Pena Hoyos.
B. Preparation Studies prepared by Consortium SEAP-CINEP (Japanese Grant, ECOPETROL and UNDP
financing)
Educaci6n Bcisica Integral en el PDPMM, Vicky Colbert de Arboleda, Enero 1998.
El Sistema Financiero en el Magdalena Medio, Luis Alberto Zuleta y Lino Jaramillo, Mayo 1998.
Estrategia de Desarrollo Econ6mico para el Magdalena Medio, December 1997.
Estrategia de Acci6n - Desarrollo Institucional.
Estrategia de Salud para el Magdalena Medio, Enero 1998.
Informe de Factibilidad, Proyecto de Justicia Comunitaria y Resolucion Alternativa de Conflictos.
PDPMM: Documento Final (arreglos institucionales yfinancieros), Martha Lucia Hincapie Rios, Marzo 1998.
Proyecto de Evaluaci6n y Resignificaci6n de la Educacion Media, Victor Manuel Gomez, Enero 1998.
Proyecto de Fortalecimiento de ASOAGROMISBOL para la oferta de Asistencia T6cnica a los Mineros del Sur
de Bolivar, Alberto Galan, December 1997.
Proyecto de implantacion de Microempresas de mantenimiento vial rutinario en carreteras de la red terciaria
del Magdalena Medio, Enero 1998.
Propuesta de Marco de Relaciones Interinstitucionales del PPDMM, Nestor Hemando Parra, Octubre 1997.
Sistema de Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n, Patricia Rodriguez, Abril 1998.



C. Project Implementation Plan
Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, Etapa de Aprestamiento y Aprendizaje, Consortium, Junio
1998.
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 06/18/98
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 154
Active Loans
CO-PE-46112   IBRD42420    1998   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              PASTO EDUCATION                   7.20        0.00            0.00          7.20         0.00       0.00
CO-PE-6891    IBRD42430    1998   GOV OF COLOMBIA                     ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION              40.00        0.00            0.00         40.00         0.00       0.00
CO-PE-40102   IBRD41380    1997   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    REG.REF.TA                       12.50        0.00            0.00         12.34         1.84      0.00
CO-PE-6884    IBRD41960    1997   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              FIN MRKTS DEV TA                 15.00        0.00            0.00         14.65         1.47      0.00
CO-PE-39291   IBRD39730    1996   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA             20.00        0.00            0.00         16.66         8.15      0.00
CO-PE-6872    IBRD4021A    1996   BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN           URBAN TRNSPRT                    59.59        0.00            0.00         57.10        17.61      0.00
CO-PE-6887    IBRD3954A    1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    POWER MARKET DEVELOP            104.30        0.00            0.00         69.70       23.36       3.77
CO-PE-6887    IBRD39550    1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    POWER MARKET DEVELOP            145.00        0.00            0.00        136.54       23.36        3.77
CO-PE-6894    IBRD39520    1996   GOVERNMENT                          SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL             58.00        0.00            0.00         48.05       30.96       0.00
CO-PE-6894    IBRD39530    1996   GOVERNMENT                          SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL             87.00        0.00            0.00         73.50       30.96       0.00
CO-PE-6880    IBRD38710    1995   GOVERNMENT OF CLM                   AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO             51.00        0.00            0.00         45.34       18.35       0.00
CO-PE-6893    IBRD38270    1995   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              ENERGY TA                        11.00        0.00            0.00          5.78         2.70      0.00
CO-PE-6866    IBRD36830    1994   GOV. OF COLOMBIA                    SECONDARY EDUC                   90.00        0.00            0.00         66.71       29.49       0.00
CO-PE-6868    IBRD36920    1994   GOV OF COLOMBIA                     NATURAL RESOURCE MAN             39.00        0.00            0.00         26.39       10.51       7.36
CO-PE-6889    IBRD36690    1994   GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA                 PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN             30.00        0.00            0.00         13.59         6.87      0.00
CO-PE-6854    IBRD36150    1993   GOV OF COLOMBIA         IA          MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER             50.00        0.00            0.00         38.17       25.00       4.21
CO-PE-6852    IBRD33360    1991   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    MUNIC DEVT                       60.00        0.00            0.00          5.27         5.27      0.00
CO-PE-6865    IBRD33210    1991   BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA               IND RESTRUC                     200.00        0.00            4.65         11.79       16.45      11.80
CO-PE-6842    IBRD30100    1989   GOVERNMENT                          ED SCTR                         100.00        0.00            0.00          6.29         6.28      0.00
Total                                                                                               1,179.59        0.00            4.65        695.07      258.63      30.91
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 479.86            6,626.23            7,106.09
of which has been repaid:                 58.58            5,281.27            5,339.85
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,116.36            1,417.99            2,534.35
Amount sold                      :                0.00               50.99               50.99
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               50.99               50.99
Total Undisbursed               :               695.07               72.61              767.68
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



MOP Schedule D
Colombia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1963/90                Coltejer                 7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1967/70/74/84/86/87/88   Enka                    .38    0.00    0.00    2.29      .38    0.00    0.00    2.29
1969/85/88/93/95       CFdelValle              16.22    7.43    0.00   31.63    16.22    7.43    0.00   31.63
1977/89/92/94/96       Promigas                15.30    1.13    0.00   49.64    9.50     1.13    0.00   35.15
1981/85/87/89/91/92/94   Leasing Bolivar        5.80     .25    0.00    1.20    5.80      .25    0.00     1.20
1987                   PRODESAL                 0.00     .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00
1990/92                ODC                     11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11   11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11
1994/95                Corfinansa               4.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    4.00     1.43    0.00    0.00
1995                   Corfmsura               13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97                Icollantas              14.00     .46    5.00    0.00   14.00      .46    5.00    0.00
1996                   Proyectos               10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    2.15    0.00    0.00
1997                   Suleasing               30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   127.53   16.29    5.00  111.87   82.73   13.44    5.00   97.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:            (.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 06/18/98



Annex 10
Colombia at a glance                                                                8/28/97
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (milbons)                         37.4       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            2,190     3,710    1750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilrions US$)                               81.9      1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         1.8        1.7      1.4      GNP                             Gross
Labor force (X)                                        2.7       2.3       1.8     per   i                         primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)              19
Urban population (f of total population)               73        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        69       67
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                26        37       41
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              10                                  Ae  t          e
Access to safe water (% of population)                  96        80       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     9        13
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   121       110      104                Colombia
Male                                                  ..        ..      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                ..        ..      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
GDP (bi/llons US$)                           13.1     34.9      78.1     87.3      Economb ratos
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                17.0     19.0      23.5      23.4            Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            15.8     13.8      17.4     16.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.8    20.3       20.4     21.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   16.4     16.9      17.2      17.5
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -4.6       -5.6      -5.5                     X.7
Interest payments/GDP                         1.0      2.5        1.3      1.9     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               28.7     40.8      32.1      33.3
Total debt service/exports                   14.3     40.0      25.0     41.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      24-         .
Present value of debttexports                  ..       ..    131.4                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1996       1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                -    Colombia
GOP                                  3.7      4.2      5.4       2.1      4.1               Lwrirdl4cm  ru
GNP per capita                       1.1      2.9      1.6       2.0       2.8            Lower .lddh-mncome group
Exports of goods and services        3.1      8.7      2.7       5.2       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
t% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  23.9     17.0      18 9      15.9     50 T
40.
Industry                                     29.2     34.6      23.0      19.5     30
Manufacturing                              23.2     21.7       18.8     15.5     20i+
Services                                     46.9     48.4      58.1     64.6      10
-I -         92   93   94   95   se
Private consumption                          72.3     69.0      70.4     68.8   -u0 i
General govemment consumption                 8.9     10.7       9.2      10.1                   GDl    e*GDP
Imports of goods and services                14.0     12.5      20.0      19.0
1975-86  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   2.9      3.1        5.2      1.4     6o
Industry                                      3.3      3.0        3.7     -1.2
Manufacturing                               2.5      3.2        1.0    -2.5      40
Services                                      4.3      5.3       6.1       3.6     20
Private consumption                           3.6      1.8        5.1     -2.2      o
General government consumption                6.4      6.9        5.5     11.0       !92   93    s    95   96
Gross domestic investment                     5.0     11.9        9.8      2.6    .20
Imports of goods and services                 5.9     11.8        7.5      0.5             -    Exports    OmImports
Gross national product                        3.2      4.8        3.5      3.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1971     1986      1995     1996
Domestic prces                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                              22.9     24.0      20.9    21.6    30 
Implicit GDP deflator                        22.9     24.9      20.8    21 2      20    - 
Government finance                                                                1C
(% of GDP)                                                                         0
Current revenue                                       20.3       30.4    31 5             91   92   93   94   95   9S
Current budget balance                                 4.3        6.9      8 1             -     GDP def.  --e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -4.6       -1.4     -2.9
TRADE
1976     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and import levels (mil. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                  3,650    10,201   10,630      s
Coffee                                              1.702     1,832    1,577
Petroleumr                                                    2,164    2,889
Manufactures                                                  5,160    4,879     10.000
Total imports (cif)                                            12,921   12,755            I *         l i i i
Food                                                                              SA .o .  SO'_
Fuel and energy                                      466       264      240
Capital goods                                       1,165     4,776    4,237      o _ _ _ _
Export price index (1987=100)                                    145      164            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                                    267      260                  a Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                ,        54       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1995     1996
(m/l"Ions USSJ                                                                     Current account balance to GOP ratio (1)
Exports of goods and services               2,105    4.642    13,771   14,545      r
Importsofgoodsand services                  2.007    4,989    16,211   16.541
Resource balance                               98     -347    -2,439   -1.997      8
Net income                                   -318   -1,710    -2.750   -3,401      3
Net current transfers                                  455       797      614      o   _
Current account balance,                                                          4   90   Si  92
before official capital transfers                 -1,602    -4,393   -4,784
Financing items (net)                                1,371     4,715    6,356
Changes inet reserves                         III      231      -322   -1,572
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill, USS)          633    2.202      8,458   10,041
Conversion rate (locel/USS)                  30.9    142.3     944.5  1,036.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1971     1981      1996     1996
(millons US3)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3.758   14,246    25,047   29,069                         A
IBRD                                       634    2,399      2,548    2,177
IDA                                         23       18         11       10             6827 10  D
IERD                  78      318        604      520~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88 
Total debt service                            314    1,980     4,694    6,443                                 2787
IBRD                                        78      318        604      520                    _         |     E
IDA                                           1        0         1        1                                   1738
Composition of net resource flows
Offical grants                               18       20        73        .,
Offtial creditors                           111      938      -472    1.531
Private creditors                          216       392     1,109    1,592
Foreign direct investment                   37    1,023      2,501    3,253                      - _
Portfolio equity                              0        0       131      -21                      F
18473
World Bank program
Commitments                                  88      490       207      334      A - l8RD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               106      590       238      152      B-IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         34      165       415      351      C.IMF                      G-Short-tem,
Netflows                                    71      424       -177     -199
Interest payments                           45       153       191      170
Net transfers                               27       271      -368     -369
Development Economics                                                                                              8128/97



COLOMBIA                                                                    X  AGRICULTURA                     AGUAS
EL MAGDALENA MEDIO                                                                               PESCA                   w CARBON
SUS MUNICIPIOS Y SUS RIQUEZAS                                                                           GANADO                        CAPTALES
4 PALMA                    -    CARRETERA PAVIMENTADA
TSbmpan=^r .,,usd be          0                     40                     80 KILOMETERS                  ARENAS SILiCIAS         _     ViA SIN PAVIMENTAR
TAwbobr 6_ba,denrme                                                                                                         n          sfionsond a  T BOSQUES  FERROCARRIL
=rimrobU = ds p d f rbe World9=k      ~B-d o=n       .In  -p p,2p.,pd by O,l=ndo                     C    ORO
G-er  publi,d i 'R-  C.p.I                                                                      RIOS
cnceofsucbond"rie ~'~'~'~              1N-      9, 1996 edio. Pi-                                         PETROLEO
ANO0 CREADO 1982                                                            '                     ACA          19AD  199  [                   I
HABITANTES  20761                                                       4                         NAFORAACIS    5                              -      VENEZUELA
% NBI   BB,94                  |INCLUIDA EN; |%NB597
sKA  I IJ   + KM2    7 65 /
ARENAI ) /L _ ~~~~~~~~~~-~                                               K649          30 0  a-
A~~~~~
H
ANO CREADO  1967   ANO CREADO  1981          ANO CREADO  1966             ANO CREADO  1993        ANO CREADO  1846   : CUADOR   _                R        9AI
RIARITANTES   18493  ~IABflANTRS   6407         HARITANTES   21779          HARITANTES   1163       HATANES   19411ITA
SAN PABIO    )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  i)  j ~~~~~~~~~~~4  t   2 8\    \q(i)    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'KM 
ANO CREADO 15368                                                 
HNBI 5AN    26 177                                                                                                                            S     MR 7147      6314    ( 57  RI NER 0
K NM     660CDO    KM94         750          KM                           KM)          163        KM           13                                     /   98
\e^J   t;   e       )          \           /                    (               \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HABITANTES   16944
ANO0 CREADO 192268                                                                         -     
HABITANTES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 13179\"                                                                                  ATATS    4 
PUERTO BERRIO  >   /  T            t    /          XI    I 0      k >    '       [     /            kKbA2          6Bi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RION 
ANO CREADO 1881                                                                                                                            KM            721v    
~~a/s_s2< >et{*nKM2B  85417
\ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~~~~~~               ~         ~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~ - - - \w'-   -f~   -  A4 CIMADOT 190
\  <   ~~~~~~ Bx         ; /        g ~~~~~~~HABITANTES   8476A|
;z^t'; <zze   : t y / h   0wt gL n<x K E
//   '   I I   ;    >    //      '-_'1r                 os                      I I !                               {-' S  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NB  A,8
,//   11   i    AW                       \\\                  ws                 11^\.,,    t                   [a--'/\)t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KW11
t ] HABITANTES   1891  1I HABITANTES    407   1  l HABITANTE    21779 |   |  HABITNTES   1163  1 I HABTANTES   19411 1 1HABITANTEI5 .    .137
1 | %NBI   52,65  11 %NBI   71,47  |  | %NBI   63,14  1   1  %NBI   5237  1 1 %NBI   6098  1 11    ''         -X~~~~~~~~% NBI,63,9
a2   kKM2   660   J%KM2   750  j  kKM2  2865 2 t KM2 163 j tKM2 15i3 ) || z - pERa.>--zs /i 9 1<2UR
c2                                                                                     | | 1         75             >'          1>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19



