Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4371-CO
Loan Agreement
(Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 10, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4371-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 
Page  2
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications 
set forth below in paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 thereof  (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
"(c) On a date not later than three months before the 
Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, the Project 
costs, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the 
performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, the lessons learned from 
the execution of the Project and 
the proposed subsequent 
activities under the Program (as defined 
in the Loan Agreement), 
if any."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Agent" means the entity which will act as Project funds 
administrator for the Borrower and the Consortium under the Contractual 
Arrangements (as defined below) to which such entity will be a party 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) (i) of Section 3.01 of this 
Loan Agreement;
(b)
"Approved Semiannual Plan" is a Semiannual Plan, as defined 
below, which has been found satisfactory by the Bank for purposes of 
paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement or has been approved by 
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (e) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Citizen’s Network" means an informal voluntary association 
of individuals or organizations, or both, which will operate at three 
levels within the Region (as defined below), i.e. the Regional (as 
defined below) level, the sub-Regional (as defined below) level, 
including the Nodo (as defined below), and the Municipality (as defined 
below) level, including the Núcleo (as defined below); 
(d)
"Consortium" means the Asociación Consorcial (Consortium 
Association) established between Centro de Investigación y Educación 
Popular "CINEP", a non-profit foundation established and operating in the 
Borrower’s territories and the Diócesis de Barrancabermeja 
(Barrancabermeja Diocesis) a non-profit legal entity established by the 
Santa Sede (the Holy See) on October 27, 1962 and recognized by the 
Borrower pursuant to its Law 20 of 1974, under the terms and conditions 
set forth in the public deed co-signed by such non-profit legal entities 
on June 18, 1998, which Association will act as manager of the Project on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Contractual Arrangements (as defined 
below) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) (ii) of Section 3.01 
of this Loan Agreement; and the term includes: (i) any modification to 
the aforesaid public deed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank providing for the addition to, or substitution for, 
any existing partner of the Consortium, or a new partner of the 
Consortium; and (ii) after completion of the Project, a new form of legal 
entity satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank to which the assets of 
the Consortium will have been transferred;
(e)
"Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual 
arrangements provided for in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this Loan 
Agreement among, inter alia, the Borrower, through DNP, (as defined 
below), the Consortium and the Agent;
(f)
"DNP" means the Borrower’s Departamento Nacional de 
Planeación (National Planning Department), an administrative subdivision 
of the Borrower’s Executive Branch through which the Borrower shall 
execute the Project pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (a), (c), 
(d), (e) and (f), 3.03, 3.04 and 4.01 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Manual" means the operational manual to be issued pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph (3) (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
Page  3
and which will govern the detailed decision-making process and rules for 
the selection, approval, processing, financing and implementation of each  
Núcleo Plan (as defined below) and Subproject (as defined below);
(h)
"Municipality" means municipio, one of the types of 
territorial entities provided for in Article 286 of the Borrower’s 
Constitution, as governed by the provisions of  Title XI, Chapter 13 of 
said Constitution and by the Borrower’s laws enacted pursuant to the 
provisions of said Chapter and regulatory Decrees thereof;
(i)
 "Nodo" means a group of representatives of Núcleos and 
other entities organized to operate within the Citizen’s Network at the 
sub-Regional (as defined below) level;
(j)
"Núcleo" means an informal voluntary association of 
individuals or organizations, or both, operating within a Regional (as 
defined below) Municipality;
(k)
 "Núcleo Plan" means a six-month plan of activities of a 
Núcleo under Part A 2. of the Project, including the estimated budget for 
such activities, to be financed under a Transfer, all as approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Manual;
(l)
"Program" means a program of one or more phases subsequent 
to and larger than the Project, in respect of activities in areas, 
sectors and interventions identified as priorities, such as education, 
health and environment, and which are expected to be facilitated by the 
carrying out of the Project, all with a view to reducing poverty and 
increasing peaceful coexistence in the Region (as defined below);
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation 
advance P 313-0-CO granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the 
Bank letter dated December 11, 1996, duly countersigned by the Borrower 
on December 31, 1996, as amended by letters dated June 23, 1997 and July 
10, 1997, countersigned on August 4, 1997;
(n)
"Region" means the geographic area of the region commonly 
referred to as the Magdalena Medio and which is currently under the 
jurisdiction of 29 Municipalities  which have part or all of their 
territories within said region, or any other geographic area in the said 
region agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank; the 
term "sub-Regional" means a portion of the Region which falls within the 
jurisdiction of more than one Municipality, and the term "Regional" means 
the quality of being within, or directly related to, the Region;
(o)
"Semiannual Plan" means a six-month plan of activities under 
the Project and the estimated budget and payment schedule for such 
activities, to be prepared by the Consortium pursuant to the provisions 
of the Contractual Arrangements and to be submitted to the Bank pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 3.01 (e) (i) (A) of this Loan Agreement;
(p)
"Subproject" means a set of activities for purposes of Part 
B of the Project, as approved by the Consortium in accordance with the 
provisions of the Manual, and by the Bank in the cases provided for in 
paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, to be partially 
financed with the proceeds of a Transfer Portion (as defined below); 
(q)
"Transfer" means a non-reimbursable transfer of funds to be 
made by the Borrower, through the Agent and the Consortium,  to finance 
one or more Núcleo Plans or Subprojects, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Manual and which, in the case of Subprojects, will 
consist of the following two portions: (i) the Transfer Portion (as 
defined below); and (ii) a contribution by a third party other than the 
Borrower under the Contractual Arrangements such as a Municipality, a 
community or a non-profit organization, to cover the remainder of the 
cost of the Subproject in question in a proportion not lower than that 
determined in the Manual for the type of Subproject in question; and
(r)
"Transfer Portion" means the portion of a Transfer made or 
to be made to finance a Subproject, which portion is to be contributed by 
the Borrower and financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan, in accordance 
Page  4
with the provisions of the Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to  five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DNP with the 
assistance of the Agent and the Consortium, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and environmental  practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, 
including an amount equivalent to the funds committed pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, or a 
portion thereof, in the event such amount or portion shall have ceased to 
be available to the Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 
to the Consortium under the contractual arrangements to be entered into 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section (the 
Contractual Arrangements).
(c)
Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of 
Page  5
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through DNP, 
enter into the Contractual Arrangements with:
(i)
an entity acceptable to the Bank (the Agent) which 
shall discharge, on behalf of, and following  
instructions from, the Borrower and, to the extent 
stipulated in the contractual arrangements provided 
for in 
(ii) below, the Consortium, all actions 
related 
to the administration of  Project funds, 
including 
Loan proceeds, which actions shall include 
maintaining 
separate accounts and records to reflect 
all payments 
made for expenditures related to the 
Project and the 
different sources of funds provided 
to defray such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
the Consortium, which shall make, on behalf of, and 
following instructions from, the Borrower the actions 
concerning the management of the Project, which, when 
connected with Subprojects and 
Núcleo Plans, shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of the Manual, 
and shall maintain separate accounts and records as 
required in (i) above for the same purposes 
stipulated therein.
(d)
Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through DNP, exercise 
its rights under the Contractual Arrangements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, shall cause the Agent and the Consortium to comply 
with their respective obligations thereunder, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and cause the Agent and 
the Consortium not to, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Contractual 
Arrangements or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section and unless it has been otherwise agreed 
with the Bank, the Borrower shall, through DNP: 
(i)
submit, or cause the Consortium or the Agent, or 
both, to submit to the Bank for prior approval: (A) 
on May 1 and December 1 in each year until the 
Closing Date, the Semiannual Plan that will be 
carried out, respectively, during the first and 
second semester of the year in question; and (B) any 
proposed Subproject the cost of which is estimated to 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000, before the 
corresponding Transfer Portion is made available; and
(ii)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, without any 
substantial modification each Semiannual Plan or 
Subproject which has been approved by the Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of (i) above. 
(f)
Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, and once the 
Manual has been issued, the Borrower shall cause the Consortium not to 
change said Manual until the Closing Date; inclusion of new areas, 
sectors or interventions for Subproject implementation shall be subject 
to strategies thereof being developed from time to time by the 
Consortium, and agreed upon between the Bank and the Consortium. No 
Subproject will be carried out in respect of activities for which the 
corresponding strategy has not been agreed upon.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, through DNP, cause the 
Consortium:
(a)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
Page  6
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, in accordance with the 
indicators attached to the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even 
date herewith;
(b)
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1998 and, on the 
last day of each quarter thereafter during each of the following 
twelve-month periods until the Closing Date, or on such other date or 
dates as shall be determined in each of the reviews provided for under 
paragraph (d) below, a report integrating the results of the internal 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section and Part A 1. (b) of the Project, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period covered by, 
and preceding the date of, said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
(i)
to review with the Bank by a date thirty days after 
the applicable date set forth in paragraph (b) above 
or, as the case may be, the date determined by the 
Bank and the Consortium pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (c), or such 
later 
date as the Bank shall request, the applicable 
report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; 
(ii)
to determine jointly with the Bank, at the time of 
each such review, the next date for preparing and 
furnishing to the Bank a report pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (b) and for reviewing 
with 
the Bank the report in question; and 
(iii)
to take, after each such review, all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions of the applicable 
report 
and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.04. For purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through DNP, cause the Consortium and the 
Agent to employ the services of the external evaluator under Part A.1 (b) 
of the Project in a timely fashion so as to enable such evaluator to 
submit the first external evaluation report to the Bank not later than 
February 28, 1999, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through DNP, maintain or 
cause to be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies 
of the Borrower, including the Agent and the Consortium, responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof;
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for 
the accounts maintained for the Project by the Agent 
and the Consortium, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
Page  7
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Agent or the Consortium will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Contractual Arrangements.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Contractual Arrangements have been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower, the Agent and the Consortium in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the Borrower’s National Oil Company (ECOPETROL) has 
committed funds for the carrying out of the Project in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
The Semiannual Plan covering activities through the end of 
Page  8
1998 has been submitted in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Contractual Arrangements have been duly authorized 
or ratified by DNP, the Agent and the Consortium, and are legally binding 
upon said parties in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the commitment of funds for the Project referred to on 
paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower’s National Oil Company (ECOPETROL), is 
legally binding upon the said Company in accordance with its terms, and 
has been acknowledged and accepted by the parties to the Contractual 
Arrangements.
Section 6.03. The date of October 13, 1998 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3,
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
With copies to:
D N P 
Calle 26, No. 13-19, Piso 14
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
Page  9
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By  /s/ Juan Carlos Esguerra Portocarrero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
 to be Financed
(1)
Goods other than
40,000
90% 
under Subprojects
or 
Núcleo Plans
(2)
Consultant services
   2,000,000
100% 
(including Consortium,
Agent and Project 
related auditing services)
(3)
Operating Costs
      700,000
90%
(4)
Eligible Expenditures
    1,600,000
100% of each 
Transfer
financed 
under Transfers
for a Núcleo 
Plan or 
or 
Transfer 
Portions
each Transfer 
Portion
for a 
Subproject, as 
applicable
(5)
Refunding of 
380,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this 
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
      280,000
Page  10
TOTAL
    5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Operating Costs" means incremental expenditures 
incurred in by the Consortium for purposes of the Project in respect of 
radio ads, newsletters, information campaigns, office and training 
supplies (including meals for trainees), rents, utilities, fuel, 
communications (including telephone, telex and postal services), travel 
expenditures (including study tours and training) and per-diem therefor; 
and 
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures for goods, 
works or services to be incurred under Subprojects or Núcleo Plans with 
the exception of goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose, 
tobacco unmanufactured (including tobacco refuse) or manufactured 
(whether or not containing tobacco substitutes), radioactive and 
associated materials, parts for nuclear reactors, fuel elements 
(cartridges) non-irradiated for nuclear reactors, acquisition of rights 
on land (irrespective of the form it takes), severance payments and 
refinancing of debt.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $420,000, may be made in respect 
of Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after April 30, 1998; and (b) payments made for expenditures financed 
under Category 4 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of the Schedule 
unless the Manual has been approved by the Bank and put into effect by 
the Consortium in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, 
works and services under contracts not subject to prior review under the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop the operational capacity 
of the Consortium, the Citizens Network and other partners in the Program 
such as Municipalities, their agencies, non-governmental organizations 
and educational institutions, in order to enable them to work together 
towards collectively defined objectives to reduce poverty and increase 
peaceful coexistence in the Region for the execution of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part  A:
Capacity building for Program management
1.
Consortium as change agent and manager of the Program
(a)
Supporting: (i) the Consortium’s change agent functions of  
mobilization of and technical assistance to the Citizens Network, 
Municipalities and local communities, communications within and outside 
the Region, and  outreach to potential partners in and financiers for the 
Program, including the development by the Consortium of strategies to 
guide the Consortium’s approach to activities under Subprojects in key 
Page  11
areas under the Program; and (ii) the establishment and operation of an 
internal organization for the Consortium appropriate for the Program, 
including administrative and financial management systems adequate to 
meet the requirements of the Borrower, the Bank and potential donors; all 
of the above to be achieved, inter alia, through the provision to the  
Consortium’s offices in Bogotá, Barrancabermeja and eight Consortium 
sub-Regional offices of equipment, essential full-time staff, consultant 
services (including Project annual financial audits), training, study 
tours and workshops, and production of videos, radio spots and 
newsletters.
(b)
Establishment and operation of a monitoring, evaluation and 
learning system including: (i) an internal system integrated into the 
Consortium’s organization and the participatory process; (ii) an external 
mechanism based on periodic assessments by an independent evaluator; 
(iii) collection of information required for establishing an adequate 
baseline; and (iv) the acquisition and utilization of related equipment 
and services and the organization of workshops and learning events.
2.
Citizen’s Network
(a)
Building capacity of the Network, with emphasis at the 
Núcleo level, through the participatory process for planning, design and 
implementation of Subprojects, and monitoring, evaluation and learning 
activities; (b) improving communication within the Region in order to 
develop a Regional identity and vision, and an adequate information base 
for decision making and Subproject design; all of the above to be 
achieved, inter alia, through learning events, communication activities 
such as newsletters,  and implementation of Núcleo Plans.
Part B:
 Development and implementation of Subprojects
1.
Provision, to communities proposing initiatives endorsed by a  
Núcleo, of technical assistance, other than that provided by Consortium 
personnel, for Subproject preparation, including technical advice, 
feasibility and design studies, building of management capacity, and 
establishing links with potential partners and/or financiers.
2.
Implementation of Subprojects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
Page  12
2.06 of this Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in 
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed 
Amounts. Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from 
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate 
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described 
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed 
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall 
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until 
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, 
at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day 
occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which 
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated 
by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof 
made by it that include such Disbursed Amount 
for such 
Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, 
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest 
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed 
Page  13
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions 
thereof 
allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include such 
Disbursed 
Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' 
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the  Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, the first such 
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if 
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2013, 
the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank 
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such 
Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  14
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per 
contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Subprojects
Although the limits stipulated in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall 
determine the procurement procedures applicable to contract(s) under each 
Núcleo Plan and Subproject, it is further agreed that when the contracts 
for goods or works or services, under the Núcleo Plan or Subproject in 
question are estimated to cost less than the equivalent  of $100,000, 
said contract or contracts may be packaged to enable their procurement 
through: (a) comparison of prices, or if such comparison is not possible 
or the contract or contracts are to be procured under circumstances which 
correspond to any of the circumstances described in paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines; (b) direct contracting of suppliers available in the area 
where the Núcleo Plan or Subproject in question is expected to be carried 
out.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works to be awarded 
under Part B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  15
Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:
Procurement Provisions Governing National Competitive 
Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or 
Colombians, will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will 
be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by hand or through the post 
office or private mailing services. There shall not be any requirement 
for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or 
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless 
and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time 
and place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly, after 
the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in 
the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded 
to the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on the 
basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully 
apply and, more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons 
other than the persons officially charged with the task of comparing 
and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing their official 
duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. 
Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as 
a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall 
apply until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. 
Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the 
bidder in
question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services for the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  16
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of such consultants, when the 
services in question are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under the Project that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms: (i) for developing strategies under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project and to undertake the external evaluations referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement, both irrespective of their estimated cost; and 
(ii) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms to be procured under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Part C of 
this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
Page  17
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or 
more, and, irrespective of their estimated cost, in the case of those 
individuals who shall: (i) occupy the Consortium positions of Director of 
Program, Administrative and Financial Manager,  Revisor Fiscal, Planning 
Coordinator, Projects Coordinator, Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator, 
Regional Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator; and (ii) develop 
strategies under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
