Page  1
April 18, 1997
Dr. Cecilia Lopez Montaño
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Santafé de Bogota
Colombia
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Magdalena Medio
Regional Development Project
Grant Number - TF027064  
Dear Dr. Lopez Montaño:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to the 
request of the Republic of Colombia (the Recipient) to carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement valued in an amount not exceeding eight hundred thousand dollars in 
the currency of the United States of America ($800,000) (the Grant).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for assistance as per its letter of 
April 12, 1997 and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the aforesaid Annex. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/  Philippe Nouvel
Acting Director
Page  2
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
By  /s/ Cecilia Lopez Montaño
Director, Departmento Nacional de Planeación
Date: May 15, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities, more specifically described in the Grant proposal dated 
November 1996, and submitted by the Bank to the Japanese authorities on December 17, 1996, 
(the Activities), for which the Grant is given, follow in (b) below.
(a)
Definitions
:
For purposes of this Annex, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(i)
“Investment Subprojects” means specific investments or groups thereof to be 
made under the Project (as defined below) to foster the objectives thereof;
(ii)
“PPF 313” means the Letter Agreement PPF No. P313-0-CO between the 
Recipient and the Bank dated December 11, 1996 under which an Advance was granted to the 
Recipient in an amount not exceeding US$380,000 for preparation of the Project (as defined 
below) and, depending on the context, the term means also the said Advance; and
(iii)
“Project” means the Magdalena Medio Regional Project that would consist of 
the implementation of a development program aimed at reducing poverty and violence in the 
following geographic areas: the geographic areas currently under the jurisdiction of 29 
Municipalities in the Magdalena Medio Region, or any other geographic area in the said Region 
agreed from time to time between the Recipient and the Bank.
(b)
Activities
:
Page  3
(i)
Establishment and support of mechanisms to ensure a key role for the communities in all 
aspects of defining the priorities under the Project, the identification of Investment Subprojects 
thereunder and the implementation and monitoring of said Subprojects, all by means of: 
(A)
development of a communications strategy; and 
(B)
assisting the groups established to represent the respective communities in all 
Project related matters;
(ii)
development of Region-wide intervention strategies for critical development issues; and
(iii)
Assisting in the establishment of an agency with a highly flexible structure which will be 
able to handle the overall management of the Project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants and providers of other services such as 
organization of workshops and training (the Consultants) required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall, through 
its National Planning Department, cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the 
Bank to carry out the Activities promptly, effectively, and assuring full coordination and 
coherence with the activities under PPF 313, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The 
Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a 
result of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from 
the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 1998.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the Consultants required to assist in the carrying out of the 
Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for 
the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been 
suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
Page  4
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
