Do_zmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4358-BEL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BELIZE
FOR A
POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 17, 1986
This document has a restricled distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =           Belize Dollar (Bz)
Bz$                                 US4U.51
Bz41,U00,U00            =          US"510,OUO
US$1.00                 =          Bz$1.9&
US"1,OU0,U00            =          Bz1,980,OUO
ABBkEVIATIONS AND ACKONYMS
BEB        =       Belize Electricity board
CDB        =       Caribbean Development bank
CiC        =       Commonwealth Development Corporation
GOB        =       Government of Belize
IESC       =       International Executive Service Corporation
ILU        =       International Labor Organization
USAID      =       United States Agency for International Development
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)                    =           1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (KW)                                1,OU watts (W)
I megawatt (MW)                    =           1,000 kilowatts (KW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)              =           1,00U watt hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                          1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 megawatt hour (MWh)                          1,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
I megavolt ampere (MVA)            =           1,0O0 kilovolt ampere (KVA)
1 kilometer (km)                   =           0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           =           0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
I barrel (bbl)                     =           42 US gallons = 159 liters
GOVERNMLNT OF BELIZE AND BELIZE ELETLKIClTY BUAID
FISCAL YE"A
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
BELIZE POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Belize
Beneficiary:             Belize Electricity loard (BEB)
Amount:                  USS7.5 million equivalent
Terms:                    17 years, including 4 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:          17 years, including 4 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate; BEB would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project would cover part of BEB's
1987-93 investment program. The project would
finance generating units, expansion and
iuprovements to distribution lines, equipment,
tools and vehicles, training and technical
assistance, engineering services for project
Implementation and studies of alternative sources
for future energy development.
Benefits:                The proposed project is expected to:  (a) improve
the reliability of BEB's distribution system,
reduce power losses and provide fuel savings; (b)
permit BEB to meet the growth in electricity
demand over the medium term; (c) strengthen BEB's
organization and management; (d) improve BEB's
finances; and (e) assist in planning BEB's
long-term investment needs.
Risks:                   The principal risk facing the proposed project
lies in BEB's institutional deficiencies. To
minimize this risk BEB would be required to
appoint a Project Manager before loan
effectiveness and to retain a Hanagement and
Financial Advisor. The project also includes
financing for a comprehensive training program to
strengthen BEB's management and technical
capabilities.
This document has a rstict distribuion and may be uwd by recipients only in the pefformance
of their ofisil dutie its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Balnk authoriztion.



- ii -
Estimated Costs a/                         Local      Foreign      Total
-(USS million)-    -
(a) Generating sets, spare parts,           0.31       2.20         2.51
and power house construction
(b) Distribution expansion and              0.84        1.87        2.71
improvements
(c) Acquisition of equipment, tools         0.02       0.65         0.67
and vehicles
(d) Training and technical                  0.21        1.02        1.23
assistance
(e) Construction management and             0.17       0.95         1.12
engineering
(f) Studies for future energy               0.10       0.56         0.66
sources development                                               _
Total Base Costs                        1.65        7.25        8.9U
Physical Contingency                    0.25        0.91        1.16
Price Contingencies                     0.59       2.54         3.13
Total Project Costs                     2.49       10.70       13.19
Interest during Construction            -           1.02        1.02
Total financing requirements            2.49       11.72       14.21
a/ Goods imported for the project are free of duties.
Financing Plan:                              Local      Foreign     Total
-(=US$ million)-
IBRD                                                    7.50        7.50
CUB                                         -           3.20        3.20
CDC                                         1.26        0.26        1.52
BEB                                         0.97        1.02 b/     1.99
Total                                     2.49       11.72       14.21
b/ Interest during construction.
Estimated Disbursements:
-------USS Millions-
IBRD FY                           1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual                            0.15  0.90  1.57  1.87  1.42  0.97  0.60
Cumulative                        0.15  1.05  2.62  4.50  5.92  6.90  7.50
Rate of Return:      12Z
MAP: IBRD 18929



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOU &ECUNSTRUCTION AND UEVELUPMENT
KREPUT AND RECUMMENDATION OF THE PRESLJENT
TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTURS UN A PRUPUSED LUAN
TO BELIZE FOR A POWER DEVELOPMENT PRUJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Belize for the equivalent of USi7.5 million to help finance a Power
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, at the bank's standard variable interest rate. The
proposed project would be cofinanced by the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB) in an amount of about US"3.U million and the Commonwealth Develnpment
Corporation (CDC) in an amount of around US$1.5 million. Both the CDB and
CDC loans are expected to be on the same terms and conditions as the bank
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Au economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Belize,"
Report No. 5244-BEL, dated October 29, 19b4 was, distributed to the
Executive Directors in October 19b4. Annex I contains the basic country
data.
Background
3.        Belize, located in Central America, attained independence from
the United Kingdom in September, 1951. With a total population of around
150,000 people occupying an area of about 23,000 kmZ, the population
density of Belize is extremely low, about 6 persons per kmX.
4.        Belize is endowed with abundant natural resources.  The economy
is largely dominated by the production of export-oriented sugar, bananas,
citrus, fishing and some light manufacturing industries as well as tourism,
while there is considerable reliance on imports to satisfy the demands of
domestic consumption and practically all investment requirements. There is
a fairly even distribution of income, with the private sector being the
dominant sector of the economy.
Recent Economic Trends
5.        The economy of Belize expanded steadily during the 19bUs and most
of the 1970s, with real GDP growth of 4.5 to 5.OZ per annum, or about 2.5%
in per capita terms. This development resulted from the expansion of the
sugar industry, the re-establishment of the banana industry, the
implementation of several infrastructural works, the establishment of a
number of new industries such as an export-oriented garment factory, and
several import-substitution industries (cigarettes, flour mill, beer and a
fertilizer mixing plant). Since 19B0, however, economic growth has not
been as robust with an annual average growth of GDP of 0.7% per annum. The
reasons for this are diverse. There has been a steady deterioration in the
terms of trade tacing the country as a result of lower sugar prices.
Furthermore, an outbreak of smut diseases in 19tU and 1981, necessitated
substantial replanting of sugar cane. Re-export trade with Mexico has been
an important part of the service sector; however, the Mexican debt crisis



and devaluation in 19b2, severely truncated th's trade. Another
significant factor accounting for the recent economic slowdown, has been
the lack of adequate port, road, communications and electricity
facilities. In particular, this has impeded the development of
export-oriented production activities.
6.        Uver the past five years, adjustment to the lower level of
national income took place mainly in the form of reduced real private
consumption and public investment. Keal private consumption at the end of
1983 was at the same level recorded in 1979 and the level of unemployment
remained unchanged at about 14%. The public sector on the other hand did
not reduce its consumption in line with the stagnation in national income
and current expenditure grew by 2b% over the same period. As a result, the
financial situation of both the Central Government and the public
enterprises has deteriorated with public sector savings becoming negative
in 19b2, reaching about ZZ of ULP in FY83/84. Faced with this
deteriorating fiscal pertormance a policy of restraint on expenditures,
particularly in the Central Government, has been enforced since early
1983. Furthermore, in June 19b4, a comprehensive range of additional
revenue measures were introduced. These included an increase of 10% in the
revenue replacement duty on gasoline and aviation fuel; a 2Z increase on
stamp duty on imports; an increase of excise duty on beer of 3UZ per pint
and the introduction of an excise duty of 10 cents per pint on soft
drinks. With respect to the public enterprises, tariffs for electricity
services were increased by 13% in June 1964. These measures yielded
additional Central Government revenues in an amount equivalent to 4.2X of
GDP in FY84/85. In conjunction with these measures, the Government
requested access to IMF resources totalling around SOR 7.125 million, which
is 75% of Belize's quota, within the framework of a stand-by arrangement.
The stand-by arrangement was approved on December 3, 1984, and expired on
March 31, 1986. The program was aimed at reducing the overall public
sector deficit to a level that can be financed entirely from bilateral and
multilateral external sources. To a large extent this adjustment program
has been successful, with the result that the public sector savings
performance has dramatically improved to a positive 3.9% of GDP in
FY1985/bb, and the international reserve position has strengthened. The
deficit on the current account of the balance of payments narrowed in 1984
and 1985, as import demand remained stagnant and sugar and citrus exports
expanded. This improved performance is expected to continue in 198b as a
result of growing exports of agricultural products.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
7.       A new government was elected to office in early 19t5.  It is
expected that the public sector reforms will be accelerated and that
increased encouragement will be given to external foreign investments to
further develop the country's natural resources. Given the limited size of
the domestic market, Belize's development is based mostly on an export-
oriented strategy, utilizing its potential in agriculture, livestock,
fishing and agro-processing industry. This strategy is expected to
continue, with additional efforts being made to expand the country's
tourist potential. In this regard, the Government will need to address the
two main bottlenecks to the realization of its adequate objectives. First,
the lack of adequate infrastructure, particularly roads, deepwater port and
electricity which, while being accorded priority under the ongoing public



sector investment program, the implementation of which is being constrained
by the present financial and organizational weaknesses. Second, the
current shortage of skilled manpower. In this regard, the Government's
current policy is designed to actively encourage migration from neighboring
countries, while also relying on an active technical assistance program.
The Government is also seeking to expand the Belize College of Arts,
Sciences and Technology.
8.        Belize's substantive agricultural potential has remained largely
underutilized. The Government is cognizant of this potential and attaches
priority to the sector. There is also recognition of the crucial role that
the private sector must play in this growth and a policy environment
conducive for this has been created. Land tenure policies are sound and
the land tax system is designed to discourage the holding of unutilized
private land for speculative purposes. The Government owns about ZUZ of
the total land resources, which is available for sale to farmers and
investors, at relatively low prices, provided that the land will be
developed with a coherent program. The uncertainty of the country's export
earnings as a result of the past fluctuations in sugar prices, has led the
Government to embark on programs to diversify its agricultural exports.
Livestock and citrus production are being promoted and encouraging
initiatives have already taken place with respect to cocoa and pineapple.
These efforts have brought some success, with increasing agricultural
exports to non-traditional markets (citrus to Trinidad and Tobago and
livestock to other Caribbean countries).
9.        In the past, the Government's policy of import substitution in
the industrial sector has led to the establishment of several small
industries in the 197Us.- This policy which is reflected in the pattern of
import license allocation and the granting of development concessions has
protected local manufacturers, many of whom are inefficient both in terms
of the price and quality of their products. Investment incentives offered
are based upon the CAKICOM Treaty's harmonization of incentives for firms
locating within the common market, and have often been reinforced by the
granting of effective local monopoly rights by outright prohibition of
competing imports. Previous World Bank economic reports have suggested
that review of industrial policies, based upon a pragmatic appraisal of the
country's present comparative advantage, is necessary.
10.       Belize is endowed with considerable tourist potential.  In the
past, this sector had been neglected by the Government; however, in 19b4,
policy statements indicated that higher priority was to be attached to the
development of the sector. Improvements in the transport infrastructure
currently underway should facilitate this development, and more extensive
promotion and advertising efforts were undertaken in 1983 and 1984.
Preliminary indications suggest visitor arrivals increased by 7% in 1984,
and further efforts are being made to expand upon this growth. A major
constraint to this effort has been the lack of financial resources made
available to the Tourist board as a result of the Government's fiscal
difficulties. It is expected, however, that the flow of resources to the
Tourist board will increase following improvements in the Government's



- 4 -
fiscal situation in view of the increasing importance which the Government
is attaching to the sector.
Economic Prospects
11.       Government policies are conducive to economic development and
investment by both domestic and foreign investors. In the medium term,
however, the economy will still be highly vulnerable to events in
international markets, and little relief from this vulnerability can be
expected until export activities have become more diversified. The
Government is making a concerted effort to increase the operating
efficiency of the public enterprises, and steps have already been taken to
improve the management of most public enterprises. The banana Central
Board, and its holdings, are being divested and the Marketing Board is
undergoing major improvements in its management structure. With the
improvements envisaged in public finances, the investment program should be
able to expand to about lUZ of GIDP, which is considered necessary given the
country's infrastructural needs.
12.       After 19b5, the economy is expected to grow at just under 4X per
annum over the longer term as a result of a broad based recovery in the
major sectors. The agricultural sector is projected to grow as a result of
an expansion of non-sugar activities, implying a gradual diversification of
the economy, with sugar nevertheless continuing to play a major role. The
balance of payments is projected to improve over the next ten years, based
upon an improvement in the terms of trade and a steady expansion of
non-sugar exports. The current account balance of payments deficit should
decline from the 3.5Z of GDP in 1984 to about ZZ at the end of the 19bUs.
Given planned infrastructural developments in the early 1990s, this deficit
will increase marginally; however, it is projected to remain below 5X of
GDP. These levels are consistent with projected net official capital
inflows, the majority of which will continue to be on highly concessional
terms due to the country'ts strong bilateral relations with the United
Kingdom and the United States.
13.       The tiscal difficulties and the worsening balance of payments
performance from 195U to 1983 contributed to a rapid increase in publicly
guaranteed external debt rising from US*45 million in 195U to US*b9.4
million at the end of 1984. In addition, there is US47 million of short-
and medium-term debt denominated in US dollars, that the Government
contracted with local branches of foreign banks in 19b8 and 1983. Debt
service however remains low as the bulk of the debt, about 7UZ, is still on
highly concessionary terms. At the end of 1964, external debt represented
38.5X of GDP and service payments 4.9Z of exports of goods and non-factor
services. In order to achieve needed levels of infrastructural investment,
Belize will continue to need to rely on external financing from official
sources. As a result, the stocK of public sector external debt is
projected to increase from 38.5% of GDP in 1984 to about 57% of GDP in
1995.  Furthermore, it is to be expected that the composition of this debt
will gradually change as grants are reduced and more loans are contracted
on conventional terms. As a result of these events, the debt service ratio
is expected to increase to about 11.5% by the early 199Us. These ratios
are within manageable limits, particularly given the steady improvements in



- 5 -
public sector finances over the past two years, and as a result, the
country is considered creditworthy for limited borrowing on conventional
terms.
PAKT II - BANK GROUP UPEMATIUNS 1N BELIZE
14.       Belize became a member of the bank and 1DA in March 19b2.  Tne
first Bank loan to Belize Loan 2273-BEL (Road Maintenance and
Kehabilitation Project) was approved on May 3, 19b3.
15.       Prior to its attainment of independence and membership of the
Bank and IDA, Iselize benefitted from the proceeds of Bank Group lending
operations made available to the Caribbean Development Bank (CI)b)
(US*3UU,UOO for an agro-industry credit project).
16.       In addition to the proposed project, the bank has also financed
under loan 2273-BEL (Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) a study
for possible improvements in the country's port tacilities. Future lending
operations are likely to include an agricultural credit project, a possible
second highway development project, and a possible second power project.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTUO
Energy Resources
17.       The principal source of energy in Belize is petroleum.  Belize is
completely dependent on imported oil tor its energy requirements. In 19B3,
imports of petroleum products amounted to USS23 million and accounted for
ZZ (second largest item after food) of total imports for domestic
consumption. The cost of petroleum imports equalled aoout one third of
total export earnings. In 1983, the use of petroleum for power generation
accounted for 23Z of Belize's total petroleum consumption, transportation
55Z, industry 11, domestic 9Y and agriculture 21.
18.       Geological studies indicate a good possibility that Belize has
deposits of oil and gas both onshore and offshore. In 1955, Gulf drilled
the first well. Since then, 40 wells totalling 25U,UUO ft have been
drilled in Belize and about b,UUU line miles ot seismic surveys have been
conducted by several companies. Presently there are nine companies
carrying out oil exploration in the country. Various findings have been
reported, but so far there have been no reports of discoveries of eitner
oil or gas in commercial quantities.
19.       The laws governing oil and gas exploration licenses are regarded
as among the most liberal in the world. Exploration licenses are awarded
for a renewable 3 to 5 year period. If oil is tound, a mining lease would
be awarded for 2U years. The agreements with the oil companies are based
on an old -contract-model- that may need to be updated co take into account
changes in the world situation experienced in the last decade. UNDP is
providing technical assistance in this area by financing an expatriate
petroleum geologist working at the Ministry of Natural Resources. The
long-run success of this assistance will depend on the ability of both the



6-
Government of Belize (GOB) and UNDP to build up the local expertise to take
care of these responsibilities in the near future. GOB needs an overall
strategy and a contingent plan for dealing with the development problems
that exploring and finding oil and/or gas in commercial quantities would
create.
20.       Hydropower is potentially an important indigenous source of
energy in Belize. To reduce its dependence on petroleum imports for
electricity generation, the Government wishes to explore the possibility of
developing hydro power generation. In 1975, a UNIP-financed preliminary
survey of hydro-electric resources identified several alternatives for
development. The study concluded that the most justifiable sites are
located on the kalize river and recommended considering construction of a
45 MW power planAt at an estimated cost of USS55 million. The UNDP study
concluded tha: the following supplementary studies are needed: (i) study
of energy demand covering a 20 year program; and (ii) further study
conceraing development on the Belize river (topographical survey, hydraulic
study of the river, geological study of the envisaged project sites).
Since 1975 no additional studies were performed on the subject. The
proposed project includes the financing of a feasibility study for future
hydro-gener- -ion or utilization of other renewable energy source such as
wood, sugaz ane and bagasse.
Energy Sector Organization
21.       The Ministry of Energy and Communications has overall responsibi-
lity for the formulation of energy policy in Belize. Eowever, at no point
within GOB's structure is there any systematic collection and appraisal of
the country's total energy supply and demand needs. A joint UNDP/World
Bank mission to Belize to conduct an energy sector assessment will be
considered for FYa7. The mission, among other things, would look into the
merits of establishing an energy unit within the Government and also assist
in identifying funding for establishing and staffing such a unit.
Power Sector
22.       The Belize Electricity Board (BEB) is the sole authority to
generate, distribute, supply and sell energy for public and private
purposes. Initially, BEB was primarily responsible for supplying electri-
city to Belize City only, while supply to the districts towns was provided
by the respective town Councils. Later, this was amended to place all the
districts in the country under BEB's responsibility.
23.       Public-service electricity supply in Belize needs improvement.
The present price to the consumer averages about 0.21 US*/kWh; of that high
cost, fuel costs represent more than 502 of operating costs. Electric
power is generated by isolated diesel sets, which depend on imported fuel.
Load centers are not interconnected, except for a 13 mile 22 kV
transmission line between Ladyville and Belize City and a 15 mile 22 kV
line between Belmopan and San Ignacio (see Map). The primary and secondary
distribution networks are weak and the quality of the service is poor.



BEB's management estimate that the capacity of small privately-owned
generator sets and the sugar industries that generate their own require-
ments is about 8.O MW.
24.       The country's short-term strategy is to improve reliability of
electricity supply by strengthening the distribution system and adding
diesel generating capacity to meet the requirements of energy supply for
the next 7 years and to study the possibility of developing tuture projects
as soon as possible, using indigenous resources when economically
feasible. Over the long-term, the country's strategy is aimed at
developing its hydroelectric potential as well as the utilization of its
domestic renewable energy resources, thus reducing its dependence on
imported fuel for power generation.
Tariffs
25.       The Belize Electricity bioard Urdinance empowers IBE  to set
electricity rates with the approval of the Minister responsible for Energy
and Communications.
26.       Up to June 19b4 BEB's tariff consisted of separate declining
block tariffs for domestic and for commercial and industrial consumers
together with a fuel surcharge which was introduced on May 1, 1979. In
June 1984 the fuel surcharge was abolished and a fixed rate of 43 bz cents
(USSU.215) per Kilowatt hour was introduced for all consumers together with
a monthly minimum charge of Bz$4. The June 1984 tariff revisions were
estimated to increase average revenues by 13X. In April 1986 electricity
rates were reduced by about 2 Bz cents, partially reflecting the recent
reductions in fuel costs caused by the decline in world oil prices. At
present BEB's tariff levels are already high and it is not expected that
any real increases will be necessary in the near term unless to compensate
for possible increases in oil prices.
27.       A 1980 CUB loan required BEB to appoint consultants to review
BEB's tariff structure. A study, which included tariff structure
recommendations and financial forecasts, was completed in September 1982 by
consultants, Stone and Webster. The main recommendations of the study were
that tariffs for large industrial and commercial consumers should consist,
inter alia, of a demand charge, and an energy charge. These recommenda-
tions have not yet been implemented. However, the new Management and
Financial Advisor is now expected to examine the feasibility of introducing
a maximum demand and energy charge for large consumers.
Constraints on Sector Dievelopment
28.       The principal development constraint faced by the power sector is
the lack of sufficient skilled and experienced personnel in BEB to permit
an orderly and adequate development of the sector. Particularly, BEB lacks
experienced personnel in management, planning, accounting and engineering.
The proposed project includes technical assistance and training components
which should result in strengthening BEB and thus help alleviate this
constraint.



- 8 -
29.       A second constraint relates to the ability of BEB to generate
sufficient financial resources internally to cover operating expenses and
service its debt and to make a reasonable contribution to its investment
needs. The proposed project would help to improve BEb finances by:
(i) reducing distribution losses and operating expenses; (ii) improving
operation and maintenance of the system; (iii) improving and upgrading the
distribution system and thus increasing system reliability; (iv) establish-
ing appropriate financial objectives; and (v) securing funding commitments
from Government.
30.       Finally, as indicated above, IOOZ of electricity is generated by
the use of imported petroleum. The recent drop in world oil prices has
contributed to a significant improvement of BEB's finances but serious
constraints could arise if future oil prices should substantially
increase. The proposed project includes financing of studies for
utilization of renewable energy resources.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
background
31.       The proposed project was identified in August 1984, after
consideration of an earlier alternative project did not appear to be
feasible. Field appraisal took place between November 1984 and February
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 28 to May 2, 1986.
The Belize delegation was led by the Honourable Dean Barrow, Minister of
Foreign Affairs and Economic Planning. Special conditions of the project
are included in Annex III.
The Project
32.       The proposed Project, which represents part of BEit's 1987-1993
investment program, comprises five major components: (i) distribution
program for expansion and improvements; (ii) diesel generating sets;
(iii) technical assistance and training; (iv) pre-investment studies; and
(v) consultant services for engineering and construction management.
Project Objectives
33.       The main project objectives are:
(a) to meet the 1987-1993 energy requirements by providing small
generating sets in the isolated parts of the electric system, as
well as portable generating units and spare parts to improve
reliability and maintenance and operating efficiency;
(b)  to expand and improve BEJ's primary and secondary distribution
systems to meet the 1987-1993 forecasted power and energy
requirements, improve distribution reliability, and reduce losses
in the distribution systems;
(c) to help BEB achieve financial viability through greater emphasis
on proper pricing, improved operating efficiency through a
reduction of distribution losses and also through better
maintenance of SEB's facilities;



- 9 -
td) to strengthen BEB by improving its organizational structure, and
management, financial and technical capability and to develop an
efficient and capable organization to handle future increasing
needs of power supply;
(e) to ensure that investments to be made are carried out on a
rational and cost-effective basis; and
(f) to prepare feasibility studies for long-term energy requirements
which are expected to be provided by hydro generation or the
utilization of other renewable energy sources in Belize.
Project Description
34..      The proposed project would be spread over several districts of
Be_ize (see map, No. IBRD 18929) and would include the following
components:
(a) Generation
(i)  Installation of one 500 kW unit, one 650 kW unit and one 3,200 kw
unit in San Pedro, Belmopan and Belize respectively, construction
of a small power station in Punta Gorda (approximately 4,000 sq.
ft.), and rellocation of one 260 kW unit and one 300 kW unit in
Punta Gorda (presently installed in San Pedro and Belmopan).
(ii) Spare parts for the existing diesel generating sets.
(b) Distribution
Installation and reconductoring of 22 kV and 6.6 kV three phase
(approximately 22 kms) and 11O-220 volts three phase
(approximately 14 kms) distribution lines. Installation of
static capacitors (about 2,500 kVAR); distribution transformers
(about 3,000 kVA) complete with sectionalizing and protective
equipment; step-up station power transformers (3,750 kYA);
customers meters (11,500 custoiiaers), service drops and street
lighting. This component includes 3b ground mounted metal clad
switchgears, 3 circuit breaker reclosers  and 32 pole mounted
isolating switches.
(c) Substations
1ellocation of two 3 MVA 22/6.6 kV existing power transformers
from the Western and Northern substation to a new substation to
be built close to the Belize power station, including the
associated 22 kV lines, switchgears, switchboard, and
accessories.
(d) Vehicles and Equipment
Acquisition of equipment and tools for operation and maintenance
of the generating and distribution facilities, including 10
vehicles for construction of the project.



- 10 -
(e) Training and Technical Assistance
Training and technical assistance, including the identification
of detailed training needs and implementation of a training
program, and a study on BEB's organization.
(f) Engineering and Consultant Services
(1) Consultant services for management, engineering and supervision
of the construction of the distribution and generation component
of the proposed project.
(ii) Consultant services for studies related to future energy sources
development.
Project Cost Estimate
35.     The total project cost, including physical and price contingencles,
is estimated at about US*13.2 million, of which about US*10.7 million would
be in foreign exchange. Total financing requirements including US$1.0
million interest during construction would be US$14.2 million.
36.     The project base costs vere estimated at December 1985 price
levels. Cost estimates for the distribution component for the belize-
Ladyville system were based on a Jantuary 19db report prepared by the
consultants Merz and McLellan. Cost estimates for the generation component
of the proposed project as well as ror equipment, tools and vehicles were
estimated by BEB and the Bank mission, based on recent quotations received
from manufacturers. The cost estimate for consultant services were based
on average staff-month costs using Bank experience for similar services.
These costs include salary, overhead costs, fees, internatlonal travel and
subsistence. Physical contingencies were calculated by the Bank at IOZ of
the base cost for all components except distribution. For this component
20X was used. Price contingencies, for both foreign and local components,
were applied to the base cost plus physical contingencies, using the
following annual escalation factors: 7.2% for 1986, 6.8Z for 1987-bb, 7X
for 1989, 7.1X for 1990 and 4% for 1991-93. Import taxes and other duties
are not included in the above estimates because 1$EB is exempt from these
charges.
Project Financing Plan
37.     The project financing plan is shown in the Table below:
Financing Source                - US$ x mtllion  -    Z of
Foreign     Local      Total   Total
7.5U        -         7YO    53
CDB                      3.20         -        3.20      22
CDC                      0.26       1.26       1.52      11
BhB                      1.U2       0.97       1.99      14
Total                   11.72       2.49      14.21    1U0
-       _



- 11 -
Project Execution
3a.       Implementation Agency.  The proposed project would be implemented
by the Belize Electricity Board (BEB). EBE, a government owned
corporation, was first established by Ordinance in 1950 and its legal
status is now governed by a revised Ordinance, which came into force in
September 1958. BEB has sole authority for public power generation and
supply throughout Belize. The Board consists of seven members, namely: (1)
GOB's Financial Secretary; (ii) a uember of the Belize City Council; and
(iii) five other persons appointed by the Minister of Energy and
Communications. The Chairman of the Board is elected by the Board, subject
to the Minister's approval. Following the election of a new Government in
December 1984 new Board members were appointed. A local businessman was
elected as the new Chairman of the Board.
39.       BEB's institutional performance has generally been weak and
characterized by inadequate planning and direction, diffusion of authority,
between GOB, BEB's Board and its management and insufficient delegation of
authority to BEB's management.
40.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants,
whose qualifications, terms of reference and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Bank, would be employed by December 31,
1986, to carry out a study of BEB's organization and that, after
consultation with the Bank, BEE would promptly implement such
recommendations as are agreed upon.
41.       In addition to organization studies the proposed project would
seek to strengthen BEB through training for anagerial and technical
staff. Because of BEB's management weaknesses, to ensure satisfactory
project implementation, it will be necessary to employ an experienced and
qualified engineer as project coordinator. The appointment of such a
person, whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
42.       EB's present General Manager, a Belizean national appointed in
1983, has worked for DEB for many years. The General Manager's office
needs support to help improve management, planning and staff coordination.
For that purpose, a Management and Financial Advisor, funded by USAID was
appointed in September 1985 under a two-year contract. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the position of Hanagement and Financial
Advisor will be retained until the Bank and BEB agree that it is no longer
necessary, and that such position will continue to be filled by a person
whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank. To further help ensure the maintenance of an
adequate management capability, assurances also were obtained during
negotiations that BEB would maintain in the positions of General Manager
and of Financial Controller persons having qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank and that B1B would appoint by December 31, 1986,
an Assistant Financial Controller with qualifications and experience,
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 12 -
Manpower Development and Training
43.       Apart from some isolated efforts, training has largely been
neglected in the past. Training administration has been handled by the
personnel officer as a secondary duty. In addition to providing management
and financial advisors the proposed project would seek to develop BEl's
manpower capability through a comprehensive tive-year training program
aimed at improving the on-the-job pertormance of about 27U management,
technical and accounting staff, at all levels. The program has been worked
out in preliminary torm with Bank assistance and would include (a) the
training of instructors as well as teaching materials and equipment for
specific courses to be arranged for BEB personnel at local training
institutions and BEB's own facilities; (b) short-term expert services for
local training in specific technical areas; and (c) short-term overseas
visits for employees to attend courses, seminars and visit other power
companies. During negotiations assurances were obtained that, not later
than December 31, 1986 BEB would appoint a Training Advisor, whose
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to
the bank, to organize a training unit within BEB and develop and organize a
detailed training program.  by March 31, 1987, BEB would submit to the bank
for review a detailed training program; such program would promptly be
implemented thereafter.
44.       An important objective of the project training component will be
t-o create a permanent train-ag capability within bEB. For that purpose BEB
has already appointed a Training Officer directly responsible to the
General Manager. After an initial period of training, the Training Officer
is expected to take over full responsibility for the training function.
The Training officer recently attended a six week Bank/lLW 1/ training
seminar in Italy in May 19bb. The cost of his participation in the above
seminar (about US$7,000) would be financed, retroactively under the
proposed Loan.
Auditing
45.       BEB's audits have been satisfactorily carried out for some years
by the public accounting firm oi Pannell Kerr Foster. However, the
issuance of audit reports has been late in recent years, varying from 9 to
14 months after BEB's financial year end, mainly because BEL's records
have not been ready tor audit. The BEfB Ordinance requires audit reports to
be issued within four months of the end of BEB's fiscal year. With the
strengthening of BEB's accounting department it is expected that BEB'S
accounts could be gradually made available for audit in a more timely
manner. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BELB would
continue to engage independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank and that
BEB's audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of FY87 and FYb8 and not later than four months after
the fiscal year end, thereafter.
1/ International Centre for Advanced Technical and Vocational Training
(Italy).



- 13 -
Finances
46.       Through FY84 BEB's financial performance was extremely weak.
Despite high rates for the sale of electricity (which increased from
US$0.12/kWh in FY79 to US$0.18/kWh in FY84) the company consistently ran
into operating losses. BEB had to obtain assistance from the Government,
which funded, through loans, (of which Bz$7.5 million were converted into
equity in FY81), BEB's debt service and investments throughout the period.
This inability to achieve a positive internal cash generation, coupled with
the excessive reliance on borrowings has progressively weakened BEB's
finances to the point that by March 31, 1984 the utility had no equity base
and current assets amounted to only 77Z of current liabilities.
47.       Following discussions with bank staff, the Government has already
taken three important measures to strengthen BEB's present and future
finances: (a) it increased electricity rates even further to USS0.21/kWh
(including the fuel charge, which was consolidated with the basic rate when
fuel prices started to decline in recent months; this decision resulted in
a significant increase in net revenues); (b) it offset debts of BEB to the
Government against receivables accrued from the sale of electricity, which
had built-up to a significant amount, and capitalized the net balance of
BEB's debts to the Government, thereby creating a positive equity base and
significantly improving the utility's financial structure; and (c) it
undertook to service BEB's non-Government existing debts, treating as an
equity contribution the difference between these payments and the value of
electricity sales by BEB to the Government. BEB is expected to add to
the above efficiency improvements and improve its financial performance
further during project implementation as a consequence of (a) its loss
reduction program which would reduce distribution losses from 17Z in 1986
to about 11% in 1990 and around 9% in 1993; (b) operating expenses
reduction program including projected savings in fuel oil costs resulting
from reduction of the distribution losses; (c) the increased system
reliability which would occur by improving and upgrading the distribution
system; (d) the establishment of appropriate financial objectives; and
(e) the postponement of additional generation investments. Taken together,
these measures should enable BEB to become financially independent from the
Government shortly and, to the extent that it improves its efficiency,
eventually allow it to start paying cash dividends.
48.       About 57% of BEB's medium- and long-term debt outstanding at
March 31, 1986 is due for repayment in FY87 and FY88. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, unless the Bank should otherwise agree,
the Government will make all debt payments on BEB's outstanding debt at
March 31, 1986. Where the debt payments made by the Government on behalf
of BEE exceed the value of electricity sales by BEB to the Government, then
the amount paid by the Government in excess of such sales will be treated
as a long-term consolidated debt to BEB. Where the value of electricity
sales exceeds such debt payments, the Government, its agencies, and its
municipalities would pay to BEB, within 60 days, the amounts owing for such
electricity sales.



- 14 -
Financing of BEB's Investment Program
49.       BEB's capital spending requirements and financing plan during the
FY87-93 project implementation period are as follows:
US5
Bz$      Equivalent     X
REQUIREMENTS                                              thousands
Capital Expenditures:
Proposed project                          26,119       13,191      45
Interest during construction               2,039        1,023       3
Total project financing requirements      28,158       14,214      48
Other a/                                  20,71T       10,467      36
Working Capital                            9,117        4,bOt      16
Total requirements                        57,991       29,289     100
m              m _
SOURCES
Gross Internal cash generation              55,685       28,124      9b
Less: debt service                           25 912      13 087      45
Net internal cash generation                     75,U37              3r
Government                                    3,989       2,015       7
Project Borrowings:
IBRD                                      14,850        7,500      26
CDC                                        3,024        1,527       7
CDB                                        6,355        3,210       9
Total project borrowing                     24,229       12,237      42
Total sources                                57,991      29,289     100
a/ Estimated non-project spending in FY92 and FY93.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of USS7.5 million (Bz$14.85 million) would
be passed on by the Government to BEB, on the same term and conditions
under a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank and the
execution of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The foreign
exchange and interest risk would be borne by BEB. The CDC and CUB loans
are expected to be made available by the Government to DEI on the same
terms as the Bank loan.
51.       CDC have indicated that they are not likely to undertake a field
appraisal of the project and that they expect to use the BanAL appraisal
report as the principal document for their evaluation of the project. A
copy of the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report has been made available to CUC
for such purposes and the CDC loan is expected to be approved shortly.
52.       CDB is expected to complete processing of their loan for approval
by their Board by September 1986. The completion of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of both the CDB and CDC loans would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.



- 15 -
53.       To ensure that BEB's finances remain sound and that the proposed
project is executed in time, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that BEB would ensure that BED earns rates of return on average net tixed
assets in operation (revalued from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the bank) of not less than 4.5% in FYB7, 6% in FY8t, and 7X thereafter.
Assurances also were obtained during negotiations that before Uctober 1 of
each year BED would make a preliminary estimate of its rate or return for
the ongoing fiscal year and a forecast for the next tiscal year and that if
the forecast should indicate that bEb would not meet the rate of return
requirements it would promptly take all necessary measures to ensure that
the rate of return target for the fiscal year would be achieved.
54.       bEk's financial projections are based on the assumption that BEB
would increase its electricity rates on April 1 each year, as required to
meet the rate-of-return objectives referred to in para. 53 above. This is
estimated to require modest nominal rate increases: FYTh 1.5x; FY89 3.UX;
FY90 2.8X; FY91 2.5X; FY92 b.3%; FY93 7.4x; FY94 7.b%. These rate
increases are based on conservative assumptions; to the extent that BED is
able to achieve larger than forecasted efficiency improvements, or if oil
prices remain at their present level, it is conceivable that no rate
increases would be required. If the forecast rates of return are met, bED
is expected to achieve a strong level of tinancial viability. BEB's
financial projections assume a prudent use of borrowings, which will be
reflected in low indebtedness ratios.  BEB's cash position is expected to
be significantly strengthened, allowing BEE to increase its revenues
through interest income from short term placements. Thus, once the
proposed project is completed, BED should be in a position to self-tinance
a significant proportion of its future investments. Debt service coverage
would be not less than 1.5% from FY88 onwards.
55.       To protect BEB's financial viability assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (a) BED would not incur any new debts (other than
those envisaged in the financing plan for the project) or pay cash
dividends, without the prior approval of the Bank, unless its debt service
coverage ratio is 1.5 or higher; and (b) BEE would not undertake any
investments in excess of 425U,UUU (other than those included under the
project) until project completion, unless it has furnished the bank with
satisfactory evidence that such investments are technically, tinancially
and economically justified and that BEB will have adequate financial
resources to carry out the investments. Assurances also were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would not undertake any power
sector investments during the same period without prior consultation with
the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursements
5b.       Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials for the
generation component of the project, tools, equipment and vehicles (to be
financed by the Bank) as well as equipment and materials for the
distribution component of the project (to be financed by CUB) will be
procured through International Competitive sidding (ICE) in accordance with
the Bank and CDB procurement guidelines respectively. Goods and services



- 16 -
to be financed by BEB would be procured under local competitive procedures,
which have been examined and found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts for tools and other small miscellaneous equipment valued at less
than US$10,OOU will be purchased through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
in which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate.
57.       Consultant's services (engineering, supervision of construction
and studies) will be secured, following Bank guidelines. Training
equipment and materials, which are part of the training and technical
assistance program, will be procured through limited international bidding
(LIB).
5.       The erection of the two small generating sets (500 kW and 650 kW)
for San Pedro and Belmopan and the rehabilitation of the 2.2 MW unit in
Belize station as well as the small related civil works to be financed by
BEB will be implemented through BEl's force account with the assistance of
the manufacturer. This is acceptable to the Bank since BES has sufficient
and capable personnel to perform this work and has proven experiences in
similar works recently completed. Construction of civil works for the
Punta Gorda power station (US$U.33 million, to be financed by BEB) are not
likely to interest foreign bidders.  These works will be provided by local
contractors through LCB. Machinery and equipment will be grouped whenever
possible into contracts valued at US41U0,00 or more. Preference for bid
evaluation purposes for local manufacturers and contractors has not been
requested by the Government.
59.         The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over
seven years. The disbursement schedule reflects IID standard disbursement
profiles which are based on the Bank's experience in similar projects.
Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be used to finance:
(i)    IUUX of foreign expenditures and 90X of local expenditures for
training, studies, and engineering services;
(ii)    100% of foreign expenditures and 9OX of local expenditures for
equipment and materials for the generation component of the
proposed project;
(iii)    OU% of foreign expenditures and 90X of local expenditures (up
to USS0.4 million) for the purchase of vehicles; and
(iv)    100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures (up
to USSO.I million) for the purchase of tooia.
Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for imported goods
whose value is less than USS20,000 equivalent. Claims for expenditures of
these lesser amounts would be subject to presentation of a statement of
expenditures for which the supporting documentation would not be sent to
the bank but would be retained by BEB for periodic inspection by the Bank.
A special account would be established in the Central Bank of Belize with a
deposit of US$0.5 million. Periodic replenishment would be made to this
special account against withdrawal applications received from BEB and



- 17 -
supported by such documents as the Bank would require. The Borrower would
be required to have anuual audits for the project accounts, special
accounts and withdrawals based on statement of expenditures. [etroactive
financing for up to US*350,0UO is proposed for payment of training of
linemen and training officer (US$250,000) and of the purchase of special
tools (up to US100,cOUO) incurred by the Borrower after March 30, 19bb.
The closing date would be December 31, 1993, six months after the estimated
completion of the project.
Environmental Effects
60.         The proposed project would not have a detrimental impact on the
environment, as it comprises only: (i) extensions and conversions or
upgrading of low and medium voltage distribution lines and will, in most
cases, follow established rights-of-way with land clearing and visual
impact kept to a minimum; and (ii) diesel generating sets that will be
installed in the existing power generation facilities where presently no
environmental effect exist.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The size and characteristics of the new generating units to be
installed in Belmopan (650 kW) and San Pedro (500 kW) have been selected
taking into consideration space limitations in the existing power stations
where the new units will be installed, as well as taking into account the
need to increase the firm capacity in order to meet the power requirements
theough 1993. The new unit in Belmopan will be installed to replace an old
300 kW unit and the new unit in San Pedro will replace two 250 kW units.
Therefore, the investment of US$ 1.0 million (including physical and price
contingencies) is the least-cost solution and no other alternative exists.
In the case of the Belize-Ladyville system, the rehabilitation of one 2.2
MW unit (purchase of prime mover and accessories: USS 1.3 million) is the
least-cost solution to meet load requirements through 1993.
62.       The economic benefits to be obtained from the proposed 1987-1993
investment program include: (i) allowing BEB to meet its incremental sales
for the period; and (ii) fuel savings resulting from reduction of the
distribution losses.
63.       The rate of return has been calculated on the basis of BEBSs
entire 1987-1993 investment program. The rare of return of the
corresponding investment was estimated as the discount rate which equalizes
the present values of the economic net cost and benefit streams associated
with the investment program. The rate of return obtained for the base case
was about 12%, which compares favourably with the economic cost of capital
estimated to be between 10% and 12% in Belize, and which suggests that the
average electricity rate levels are close to the average incremental cost.
The rate of return probably understates the real economic rate of return of
the proposed project, as revenues from the sales of electricity may not
fully measure some of the benefits to society, such as the social benefits
of residential and public uses, or the indirect benefits to industry and
commerce, whose production and employment depend on reliable electricity
supply. Furthermore, the social impact of the proposed project is



- 18 -
difficult to measure because of inadequate data. The inclusion of social
benefits, would probably result in higher internal rates of return. Shadow
pricing for local currency labor costs and foreign exchange were not
considered necessary because market values in Belize can be considered
reasonably close to the opportunity cost of labor and the rate of exchange
appears to be realistic and does not need adjustment.
b4.       The project faces no major physical risks.  The distribution
works and installation of small diesel sets are standard and the
implementation schedule assumed for the project is reasonable and takes
into consideration normal engineering administrative and construction
procedures. Possible hurricane damage presents a risk to projects in
Belize. To minimize the associated technical risks, the new distribution
lines will be designed in accordance with economic and technical
considerations taking into account that winds of about 130 miles per hour
are relatively common in the region. Delays in project execution could
arise due to BEB's lack of experience with large projects as well as with
Bank loans and procedures. To minimize this risk, provision has been made
to engage engineering consultants (para. 34(f)) to assist BEB in the
implementation of the proposed project. BEB's technical staff will also be
assisted by Bank's staff in matters related to Bank procedures.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
65.         I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
July 17, 1986



- 19 -
ANNEX I
TAI L      3                                 Page  I of  7
POST                     COST' AO RTIPA) lb
ccitt            NIDOLE tmu              NUIODLU  te
go,aw      1a      gooTtaT*um       u:. sca   CAR                toara
a  (sim          w. mo
toTAL                               23.0        23.0        23.0
RIUuL.AL                             a.1         o.a
R sil                                  ..          .. C110.0                  1973.9                    2164.3
w amm_norm ca
CEILOGRII OP OtL QUhVALfM)         107.0       314.0      *72.0              993.6                    I119.3
PoPluATIojaI-uaa CTaosAis)          91.0       120.0       133.0
LRMD POPULATION (S OP TOTAL)        33.8        30.9        12.0 Ic           67.7                      47.3
POPULATION lIWECfIONS
rOuLAr..IN in it" 2000 (KILL)                             0.2
STATIONAIW POPULATION (MILL)
POPULATION  mNSIT
PtE  So. Ex.                       e.0         3.2         .?7              a3.0                      54.7
iA SQ.  I. ACSI. LaD             123.0       140.3       110.0              91.1                     100.9
POPULATION AGE STIUCTU1S (I)
3-14 IRS                          ..         49.3       '0.9                35.3                     31.2
1-44 1g                            ..          0..       *,a.7              37.:                      61.5
ISM5 ANO                           ..         '.3         4.3                '.2                       7.2
POPULATION GOWS RATS (2)
TOTAL                              3.1         2.5 id      1.9 id             2..                      1.t
UU3II                              2.5         2.2         1.6                3.0                      3.7
CEuSt vmI    "RA  (PER  10sS5)       ..         17.0        30.7               30.9                     23.4
CRUDt OETh RE (ft TI.OUl)            ..         10.4         7.0                3.0                      5.9
GROSS  TPE0DUCTION EAT!              3.3         3.2         2.3                2.0                      1.3
PANELY PUJIIISh
ACCEPTOS. ANNUAL (Tmac)
uss.., (I or lMit Doesm           ..          ..          .. )3.3
FOO an nineru
sDe or FOco ptac. rn CAP ZIA
(109-71-100)                         ..        100.0       120.0              109.0                    109.1
PER CAPITA SUPLE OP
CALOUIS (Z OF IQIRIIITS)         103.D       123.0       13.0               113.2                    131.1
PSOTEINS ( MS PEU DaT)            04.0        6.0         17.0               09.4                     92.4
or 'IISCm AnIaL an rumS          31.0        32.0        '0.0 la            34.2                     34.3
CHttD (cAm  1-4) RAM  TA             4.5         3.0         ..                 4.5                      4.7
DEL
LIFE EXPCT. AT 51111 (t15S)         33.2        19.9        05.5              64.5                      67.2
INFANlT maT. RATE (PER TW0S)        64.3        51.2        30.2              39.7                      33.3
aCCESS TO SAFE SATES (SP0)
TOTAL                              3.6 if    60.0 .t       .6. 63.3                                    0.2
'l3Am                              3. 7        ..         02.0 :c            70.3                     89.4
30AI                               4.07T       ..          ..                44.2                     37.0
ACCES TO PJCRETA DIS OSAL
(2 0? POPLIA?IZO
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                36.3                     39.
U                                   ..         ..        4b.0 IC             73.4                     03.9
RUNAL                              ..          ..          ..                25.5                     47.1
onFz.notu M PnSICIAN              4050.0    2D30.G        2220.0             1*9.7                    1070.b
POP. PU NIRSING PESON             ! 10.0c    27 10.0       500.0              301.2                    769.5
POP. PEr hOSPITAL sm1
rOTAL                            o10.0       10.0        2tO.0              362.0                    328.3
URAD                             iA0.0 1h   190.0        170.0 Ie           422.0                    201.9
RURAL                              ..  -      20.0       5O.O 71'          2710.7                   *519.7
ADISSIOlS PR HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..          ..                27.5           ;     Q     .0
AVERSE SIZE oF HOFStKOLD
TOTAL                              *      .7   1.2
Lh                                  .          .....
arJAL                               .?         ...
AVERSE Ho. or PrESONS: 309
TorAL                              1.9          .
0U5                                1.8         ..
LR3AL                              2.1         ..
PERCENTAGE oF DELLINGS WiTM ELECT.
TOTAL                             29.3         ..
URBa                             53.3          ..         *tS.5
RURAL                               .4         ..         29.1



- 20 -                                  AiNEXI
T A 7 L  It                              Page  2  of  7
U3.123                 - SOCIAL IND1CATOl DTA SUEtC
131.123            -US n a                           S x     s (hIAhUb  AniuaAO     i
MST                      (MOST RCCtbT ESTIMATE) l
1 iCUI            MIDOLE INCOIK            NUDDLE  TUllS
196OLb-     197ti-b ESTD(ATdE       LAT.  .RICA  , CAR             CUKUF
ADJUSTCD SUROLUNNT UTEOS
paz1mu    TOT                     113.0       110.0        83.0              IV6.7                     101.9
AIUU                     *.          *-          .                106.5                     10.2
ri                       *-          *-          *-               14.*                      97.5
SKCONDARYt TOTAL                   17.0        22.0         ..                44.2                      37.3
HALI                     ..          ..          ..                42.7                      a4.9
rUot                     ..          ..          ..                44.9                      30.0
VOATIONAL (1 oF SlODNAM)              53.         3.0         0.1              13.3                      21.0
FIPIL-TEACNU RATIO
p113*                             46.0         28.0        26.0               29.9                      25.1
SC0UYDART                          16.0        16.0        16.0 /I            16.7                      19.1
PASSEWMR CARSITDIOUSAND POP           7.7        3h.2        34.7 Jo            46.0                      34.2
wRDTO WUCUIUS/DTOUS   DFM            24.2       475.0   5 13.3                 328.3                     170.7
TV nVuSITOs D PO                      ..          ..          ..               112.4                     149.3
INESPAIU ("DALT G tAL
lNtEUEST-) CIRCUTATION
PER TDUIISAD POPUlATION             44.0        33.3        49.3 jJ            *1.1                      97.0
CIl   AL AfTlDACIATtV                 ..          4.2         .,                 2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LAIR romE (TIN)                27.0        33.0        47.0  e
RUi* (PSCt)                        13.1        13.7         ..                23.6                      36.3
AGRICULTURZ (hRINT)                39.0        52.0        37.1 Ie            31.4                      40.1
iNlDUSTS (PERcET)                  22.0        23.0        16.5 77            24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.0        27.6        32.0 IC            33.3                      43.1
4MAU                               &9.5        44.3         ..                51.3                      33.1
W -uL                              10.7        10.3         ..                15.9                      31.4
ECNN0C DPEDNDNC  itATZO               ..          1.          1.7 Ic             1.3                       0.9
uDISTET
PERCNT Or EiVAT  INCUS
-CvEED sT
IalGuST S3 0F NOUNI1OLDS            ..
miCUEl 20X 0  HWS.US                ..          ....*
LOE5ST 20t or OSNL                  ..          ....N.
LovS  40   NoumoLS                  ..          ..          ..WU.g..
P05wm TET GRUDUN
ESTDIAXED ASLmIZ PoVnRT ZICl
LVE. (Cs nR CAPITA)
UR                                  ..          ..          ..               233.3
UAL                                 ..          ..          ..               13.3
ESTMATS  tSUlTIVB PVRnT I5001
LZVaL (C m CAPITA)
..                                             ..          ..               519.6
PUUL                                ..          ..          ..               359.7
ESTDIATS POP. 3KLW AMSOTE
P10,331! TNr   LI. (Z)
Uu                                  ....
RUAL                                ..
.OR AVAXlAt
NT APPLICANE
/a   The grap sv.reges for each indeitOt e re  pOpulatIow-Mdted arit' tic ma_ia.  Qver_1 of crntre.
_ eb the imdicacoru depends on availability of da  ad Is mt uiorm
lb  Unelo otherwise noted,  Data for 1960" rer to an year bste  19352 and 1931; 'Dt& for 197wr bebsee
19H  ad 1971; and data for "Mat laRe_t Sutime" bet_on 1931 and 1933.
ke  19UO;  /a  an to nigratin  popuatio   atb  rate Le laer tb_ rate of natural increase;  Ia 1977;  It
Pere ntg of houaiuL units with pipd water;   L 1964;  /h 1962;  h 1973; &   1979.
.105, 19a5



-  21-                               ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 7
-~~~fFfrK OF D         VOCUS OLD>AT
Ness Akh.e            d        _ hdmmbdawm be see.w ully ju   me  auuiaaaawo do.U.,it sod als no     d haisy mya a km aswauemlly
-m.b bomus _a           .rmd.a dlmma 55 camsd by dSmaW cesausoa as s           g a deft. TM daum am __mohu aid to
duls mai  d_l  ia flat Wah           e _S _ucaia      di_aa hus, ceu_n.
M          of  - (IdI  a -  a_y pu    e hm mum y ma 2 acay pi om_ ab m                                   d meaty
pay  lS  bjs cayfaugtfarKI~hor. CI Epossm pep ham'Mi lam Nah  nm  adnowi ECak miham banta d m    u
mb_adsmA) l        ta a  pi as   mmsr'H 4      - u.puEauiom uai1ar cmaoAuaodaMa deajmo as          olb rs mf
cumso mhamsb emdain saks saim" demo shme,w to asedwThsim ausupsm sidy .w. ewnm a amaetgdovmo danindmor t as usmmoms
AREA (thousad sq.hm.)                                         Crder AyM Rar (per ebasmmadk-Number of live births in the year
rTad~-Total surface anm oompnmng land are and inland waters   per thousnud of mil-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960, 1970 aund l983 dais.                                    Crabt Deal Rae (pr dhmad)P-Numsber of deaths in the year
-gvdeald-Estinsae of agriutural area used temuporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 190. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanily for cropa, pastures market and kitchen gardens or ma  Gram RepsdwbeV  Es~-Avenge number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her manual reproductive period if she expeiene
preset age-specific featiity rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USII-GNP per capita estimae at current        in am6. 1970. and 1913.
market prima calculated by same conversion method -  World           Pmh   -At MAeeep wn  Amo  fthmhmminda-Annual num.
Bmnk Asks (198143 basis): 1,913 data.                         her of macspie of binb-coniral device under auspice of national
ENERGY CONSTMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparen                  family piamlg progrm.
consumption of commercial primaryenrg  (coal and lignte   ~ Frm   P4ol-sers (pureealmsimlcud  osemai-The p nn
petroleum. natural gas and hydra-. nudlea and geotherma sele-  lag of married women of child-bearing age whoam pretacing or
tricity) in kilogramss of oil equivalent per capita 196. 1970. and  whose hushbad an practicin any form ofrconmataepuon. vtonen
1982 dala.                                                    of child-bearing -.e are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraispive usag  is measured for other age
POPULATrION AND VffAL STA11TIMCS                              groups.
TealR  hgI de  MMi-Yew (ul6mas)-As of July 1; 1960.1970.      FOOD AND NUETRMON
and 1983 data.                                             fabxzfFesPnbude  P_r Cpita (IUP-71 - 10)3-Index of per
urIm Ia       . (pwcaw of sab-Ratio or urban to total    capita an W prodution of aul fod cmmodities. Prdution
popuation different defiton of urban aras may affe comepr-    excudes amnal fed and se d for agricult. Food ommodities
ability of data among countieS  1960. 1970. and 19113 data.   include primary comoditie (e.g. sugnne instead of sugar)
hpAdea Awojocmud                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffe and tea are
tp.shm in year 2l-The projecton of populain for 2or.    pclduded) they comprise cereals, root crops, pulse0   oil sends.
made for each economy spartely. Startng with information on   vegtables, fruits nuts, sugacane and um r beets livesock, and
total populaIon by age and  x. fertility r     mortaity ates, ad  lvestock produn     Agnreate producio of eah country is based
internatonal migration in the bass year 198  thmse paraneers  on nation  aveage producer  u  weighbs. 11-615. 1970. and
wer project  at rTe-year intrva  on the basis of genelzed     1912 data.
ampti  uni   the populat  became sationar.                    &r CAP" AM(  fCaubos (*rea WerS)-Conput-
Staoiwny popidarn-i one in which age- and sea- fic mar-       ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies avsilable in country
tality rates have not changd over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Availble supplies=cpm  domestc produc
fertiDity rates have simu neously remned at relacmt level lion, imports less exports, and chag  in stock. Net supplies
(net rproduction rte - 1). In such a popWuation, the birth rat is  exclude animal feed, seeds for - in agriculture, quantities ued in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  Food proreb ng. and losss in distribution. Requirsients werm
constant, and  e growth rate as zeo. The stationary poulation  estmated by FAO base on physiologicl needs for normal activity
sgm was estmated on the basi of the projected caracterisics of  and heath considerig environmenta temperture, body weights.
the population in the year 2010, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distributio of population. and allowing IC percen for
rte to replament levl,                                        wase at houold level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Ptopulati  Afomemums--is the tendency for population grot to  Pr Capita Supply of PRwain (gA*om pr dy)-Prodin cotent of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita ne supply of food per day. Nei supply onfood is defined
achievec that is, eve after the net reroduction rat has rahed  as above. Requirements for all countries esablished by USDA
unity. The momentum o e population in the year  uis mu sred as  provide for mnimum allowanc  of 60 grams of total protin per
a rato of the ulmate sationry popultion to the popultion an   day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year, gpiven the asmpbt   that fertility rmss at replace-  should e nima protein. These standardsar lower than those of
int level from year   t onward, 1985 dat 8,                   75 grams of total protein and 23  as1 of anima protin as an
w-Eaie      n*Y                                               averag for the worl proposed by FAO in the Third Worid Food
per squnt.-Mid-year population per squa  kilomter (100 bec-   Supply. MI 1970 and 1982 damt.
tanes) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1913 data.              hir Capia heerds Suppl Frm Afnsdhld Phse-P-lrotein supply
her sqka. agricbdar shod--Computed n above for agriculturaL   of food derived froanimalsandpulsesingramsperday: 1965.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
hpdnlt a Age SCnote    (pueraer)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Capi (aer 1-4) Del Nee (pje hoosmpari-Number of deaths or
ing ae (I 5-64 year) and r  rted (65 years and over) as peauntge cldv   agd 1-4 years per thousand childrn in the s-p age
of mpid-year population; 1960,1970, and 1913 data.            Prop an a iven yea. For most developing countnies data derved
rp    . Grca Es                       nua grwth rates of      from life tablet   160. k1970 and 1983 data.
totalmidi     eI-year popuation for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 19706A3.  HEALTH
Pponineyoe    tiGmc Es ba ( re-_)-a-Annusl growth rates bee        Ezpeersy n t -uprp  (ynp -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195060.1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if pevaiin patterns of moraity for all peopl



-  22 -                                     Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the lime of of its birb were to say the same broughout its life:  ApNim.eher RXato - prmri. ad sevondat i-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1963 dat.                                       folled m pimary end secondary kweb divided by numbes of
JIf.  M8illry RAse (per la)-Number of infants who die    letchm in the corspondig levels
befom eahing on year of ag per thusan  live births in a pven
year. 1960. 1970 ad 1913 dnt&                                  CONSUMPTION
teem  so S*  SIhe  (Pur   of           ), wd                   Phseqtn    Cs (fpr thmaw pealul.uJ-lPssenger cars com-
realNmber of people (oL  rban. and nsl) with rasoable          priw motor crs nseting lk  than eight pesons excludcs ambul-
awn to sfe wor  supply (inuds trated surfaoe wates or          anwus, heases and military vehicls.
untreated but unontmumnatd water such a that tfoum protcted    Ral Awir (per thmeased p.paheiemp-All types of meceiver
bomholes sprmp ad uanita  wels) as pectgs of their raspe-      for radio broadcasto general pub ic per thousnd or population;
tNve populations. In an urbn am  a publc fountain or smndpost u  cudes un-licensd receir in countries and in years when
lowated not mom thima 200 umetr from a ho.'. may be    -1      registration or radio sets was in effect. data for rem.nt year may
as being within  saamae som  or tbai hous. In rural arm        not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable acce.. would imply that the houswife or members of the
houeLbold do not bave to spend a diproporionate pan of the day  TVRWrdis (pr thasmdA ep.I.d)--v rceiversfor broadcast
in fctcbmg the fitfly's water needs._to seneral public per thousand populaion. exdudes unlinsed TV
An et  Exec e Dfamlys (wt         of penl_r  1 , *_     r       eceivers in countrie and in years when rgsatico of TV sets was
ad rm.l-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by   in effet
excreta disposWl    percentage of their rspective populations  .''wppw C*qic     u (per Mhe_asadjepoluru.i-Shows the aver-
Excrta disposal may inctude the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of daly gdenl interest newspaper. defined as a
without tretment, of human excrete and wate-water by water-    penodical publication devoted primariy to recording genal news.
bome system or the use of pit privis and similar instations.   It is consiered to be dauly- if it appean at least four times a week
P    vielll per Phys.l.-Population divided by number of prc-  Cm~  Amul Aaneadw pc r CeCpa pfr Yar-Based on the
tiuing physcia  qualified from a medical school at univeity leve.  number or tickets sold during the year, induding admissions to
Pbp.ilahierper Nwni     ossPm   -pulation divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male  nd female graduate nurses, asistant nurss.
prctical nurses and nusing auxiliari                           LAIOR FORCE
A*mW_  per R_ead hd-Eam, wlm d _el- Ibpulaton                  Tea Ler Fom (Sth.mir)-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their rpctive number of   cluding armed forces and unempkoyed but exduding housewives.
students etc.. covenng population or all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, geneal andvaoucunreaentcopabe190170nd93dt.
hospitals and rehabiittion centers Hospitb als c               vanous countbes are not compauabe  1960 1970 nd 19U dat
permanedy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fm     (pereur.-FRemale bbor force as prentage of total labor
iding pnncipaly custodial care are not included. Rurl hospitals  orm.
however, include health and medic centers not permantdy stalftd  Epkelu  (perrew)-Labor fore in famung. fornry, hunting
by a physicin (but by a medical assista  nurse, midwifie etc.)  and fishing as pemrentge of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 19W0
which oRer in-ptient acconmodatio and provide a limited rqe    data.
of medical facilities.                                         ladesr (percesr J-Labor force in mining, construcion. manu-
Amiltiapr p wRap" &.d-Total number of admissions to or         facturing and eletricity, water and ps as percentage of total labor
discharges from bospital divided by die number of beds         foce; 1960. 1970 and 1980 dau.
PW _tei.. Je (prceafr-  al.f _i, anifadi_-Particapation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total male, and female labor force
Am'erqe Su of HheM  (pealb.ptor   _eMhW   -.eal w*M.           as perentages of totualL        and femak popul tion of l ags
le-A bousehold consias or group of individual who share        respectivdy: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quartrs and their main mci A boader or lodsr may or     participation rates rilectin. agsex structure of the population and
may not be induded in the household for statistl purposes      long time irend. A few estimates am from national sources.
Are  Number of Pama per RIee---i.l, _iln and ral-              Ece.e     Dependny Ruri--Ratio of population under 15. and
Avrage number of persons per room in aD urbn, and rural        65 and over, to the working age population tthose aged 15-6.
occupied conventional dwellings, respevely. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DlSTRIBlUTON
Percuaqer of DwreVs .k  EVkx1y-eetul, whm. m'd ral-            Prsw    of Tal Dileh  lucern f(bha   as e       ad kind)--
Conventional dwellings with electricity in iving quarters aspercn-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage ol total urban, and rual dweings respectively,            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4hwed Ewedicer Raies                                          The foiowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Irynarmv sdhool - total. k  alnd fa   C     total, male and   levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the primary kvd as percentages of  EJstited Abahr Pevery lucer  Lewe tULISlr p qpitaj-arua
repective primary school-a  populations Whie many countries    _Od rwal-Absolute poverty income lvel is that income level
consider primary sdcool age to be 6-11 yers othes do not. Te   below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essental
diffemnces in country pracices in the ages and duration of sdcool  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with usuversal  Erwed Rbd.re Pbvety lucen LevWe (S per cpira)-wrem
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some    aid rwal-Ruml relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stadard prinary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Swecndarv school - :old. male aid feale-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education reqes at lt four years of approved pri-    E.iuifd Popahe'ei  elew AbIhre Psra  Jueor LeAWe (pr-
mary inswrtion provides generl vocational or teacer training   crrw_-em   ad real- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usay of 12 to 17, years of age: conespond-  who are absolute poor.-
coce courses are geney exduded.
Vocationd E,aroehern (percnt of saodary-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Dimision
tioti indude technial, industriaL or other programs which opemte       Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 23 -
Annex I
Pals 5 of 7
BELIZEs ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                            Prel.
190      1981      1982      1983     1984          1955
PR I CES
GMJ Deflator (BzS  19S0-100)                                       -       105.6      101.6    105.2   108.9           110.1
Exchange Rate CBzS per USO                                         2.00      2.00       2.00     2.00     2.00           2.00
Amount             Share of GCP at Market Price. tS)            Average Annual Increasse  CS)
(miliion USS at            Cat current prices)                      Cat constant 1960 price.)
current prices)
19S4          1979         I S1         1986         1990    1979-80    1981-54      1985-90
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product            182.4         100.0         100.0       100.0        100.0       4.4        0.9         4.0
Agriculture                      48.5          24.7          25.2        27.7          27.6      1.0        4.9          3.8
Industry                        38.3           21.5         21.4         18.3         18.0      11.0        3.6         3.8
Services                         95.6          53.8          53.4        54.0         54.4       3.2        0.4          3.5
Consumptlon                       171.7          72.4         79.9         77.8         74.2       8.1       -2.1         2.3
Gross Domestic investnmt           29.3          27.6          20.1        18.7         21.4    -7.2         -6.1         8.7
Exports GNFS bl                   101.6          53.7          49.1        76.7         76.8      -4.2        4.7         3.9
Imports GNFS bI                  120.2          -68.2        -62.0        -73.2        -72.4      2.7       -1.1          3.4
Gross National Savings             22.9          27.7          17.4        25.8         26.2   -10.9          4.3         3.2
As SZ  f GOP                                 Preliminary
1979/80       1980/81      1981/82      1982/33      1983/84             1984/85
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current Revenue                  27.8          23.4          24.2        24.9         23.9               28.1
Current Expenditure              18.7          19.0         21.8         25.3         26.0               24.5
Surplus (+) or Deficit C-)        4.1           4.4           2.4        -0.4         -2.1                3.6
Capital Expenditure              18.2          12.1          12.3        13.7          10.5               9.6
Foreign Finance (not)             8.0           2.5          .3.6         5.5           1.3               3.4
a/ At market prices.
b/ Based on baIance of paymnts deta.
c/ Fiscal year - April/March 31. Figures refer to consolidated Public Secter operations.
March 1986



-24 -                                             Anex I
Pago 6 f 7
KELIZEs ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1979-80        1981-U          19U5-90
OTHER INDICATORS
OIP Growth Rate (S)                   5.8             0.7             4.0
GIP per Cepita Growth Rate CS)        1.6            -3.6             1.1
[CDR                                  2.7              ..            5.8
Marginal Sawings Rate                  ..              ..             0.33
Import Elasticity                     0.5              ..            0.9
Annual Growth Rate CS)
Amount                              (at conctant 1980 prices)
(million USS t -- 
currant prices)                        Actual                             Projected
Indicator                                   19U           1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1964         1985      1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)              68.6           2.7      4.6    -5.0      5.0     9.9    -0.1        2.3       2.6
Sager                                   32.5           3.0     6.2    -6.9      8.6    11.2   -3.7          0.0      0.0
Cltrus                                   9.8           1.8     4.2      2.8      1.8  -26.8      5.6        6.7       5.9
Other                                   26.3           2.1    -1.7   -15.8   -16.0    40.0       5.1        5.0      4.9
1
Merchadise Imports Cc.l.f.)              106.A           2.4     2.7    -7.2       6.9   -6.8      3.1        2.8       4.5
Food                                    22.2           3.1     0.5      2.2     3.1   -12.6    -0.6         2.0       3.0
Petrolem                                18.3           2.6     6.8    -3.1    -0.7    12.9        1.7       3.7       4.2
Other                                   66.3           1.4     0.9    -2.5      3.1   -11.3      6.3        2.6       4.6
PRICES
Export Price ldex   (1980-100)            -            .. 100.0    95.2    93.1    72.4    82.5           89.s    140.4
Import Price Index   C1980.100)            -            ..   100.0    86.4    73.1    99.8   103.4        112.5    167J9
Term  of Trade Index C1980.100)            -            ..   100.0    91.2    76.5    72.5    79.8         81.1      83.6
Composition of Merchandise Trade CS)          Average Annual Increases CS)
at current prices                      Cat constant 1980 prlces)
1979    1981    1986    1990              1979-80   1981-41   19U5-90
Exports                                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                3.7         1.2         2.9
Sugar                                          51.6    57.0    52.3    49.1                 4.6         2.3         0.5
Citrus                                           7.4     8.7    10.5    10.4                3.0        -4.2         6.1
Other                                          41.0    34.3    37.2    40.5                 0.2         3.3         5.0
Imports                                         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 2.6        --1.0       3.5
Food                                           26.6    30.7    23.9    23.2                 1.6        -2.0         3.0
Petrolem                                        14.7    19.7    18.8    20.2                4.7         2.7         3.5
Other                                           56.7    49.6    57.3    56.6               -1.2        -1.2         4.0



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 7
ELIZE - BALWCE OF PAYTENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of US at currant prices)
Actual                                Projected
1960     19at     1982     1963    1i4        1985         1186      1990
BALANCE OF PAYTENTS
Exports of ONFS                      109.7    103.2     67.4     94.3     82.8      77.5         57.8     139.0
Imports of CNFS                     133.6    130.2    123.1    125.0    120.6    111.7          118.6     159.2
Hot Factor Services                   -1.9     -1.9     -4.0     -5.8       2.6      0.6          D.0     -22.5
Not Transfers                         16.S     18.5     18.3     16.1     23.5     30.0          29.0      29.1
Current Account Balance                -9.3   -10.4   -17.4   -12.5   -11.7    -3.4                -Ia     -15.3
Private Direct Inveatent 8/              0.7     -5.4      6.1    -4.4    -10.0    -3.1            -3.6       2.4
ILT Leas (iiet)                         10.4     13.5      8.7      7.2      2.4      15.5          6.9      14.0
Channge In Reserves                      1.8    -2.3      -0.5    -4.6    -7.2        6.3           1.5       1.1
International Reserves Cnot)           13.5      11.2     10.7      6.4    -0.8       5.5           7.0      11.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Official Debt Outstanding             44.6     51.1     63.1     68.4     69.4      87.9         94.7     142.9
Debt Service: Total Service
Psynunta               1.5      2.6       5.9      4.0      5.1     15.0          10.8      13.3
Interest               1.0      1.5       1.2      1.6      2.9      5.7          4.2       6.3
Psy_nts *s S of
Exports              1.4      2.5       6.9      4.3      4.9     15.2          9.9        8.7
a/  Includes errors and  nilsions.



-26-               ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BELIZE
A.   Statement of bank Loans as of March 31, 1986 I/
USS million
(Amount less cancellation)
Loan       Year   Borrower   Purpose                Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2273-BEL   1983   Belize      Road Maintenance       5.3    -         .4
and Rehabilitation
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1986
None.
I/   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
BELIZE
PUWEK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  18 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Belize Electricity Board with Bank
assistance.
(c) Identification mission: June 1982.
(d) Appraisal mission: November 1984.
(e) Negotiations: April 28, 198b.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1Y8b.
SECTIUN II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) Uovernment would make all debt payments on BES's outstanding debt
at March 31, 198b, and in those fiscal years where such payments
exceed the amount due from Government to bEb, for electricity
sales, the excess will be treated as a long-term consolidated
loan to BEB (paragraph 48).
(b)  GOB would ensure that all public sector agencies pay their
electricity bills within bO days of billing (paragraph 4b).
(c)  BEB would not later than March 31, 1987, prepare a detailed
training program for BEB's staff and, after taking into account
the Bank's comments, promptly implement such program.
(d) BEB would ensure thac, based on its revalued assets, determined
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, BEB
earns an annual rate of return of not less than 4.5X in FYB7, bZ
in FYbb, and 7% for each fiscal year thereafter (paragraph 53).
(e)  BEE would before October 1 of each fiscal year review its
financial forecasts and, where necessary, promptly take all
necessary measures to ensure that the rate ot return target for
the fiscal year would be achieved (paragraph 53).
(f) IEB would not undertake any investments in excess of USsZ5O,UUO
until project completion without turnishing the bank with
satistactory evidence that they are justified (paragraph 55).



IBRD 1892 
w-'oa                  M~~~r30                        Wo                             or'as
18'30O''11a0                                                                                        EtO
o  ChCmmm                        M      C                                                  isp
Pulohacano  *    4.
M E XICO              
Loynu,lt.   Francisc
Dougiss  ,         iogiwo        
Snn Anao l\    COROZAL
jcOZ                    DISTRICT
Pm~l ,J                                                        "R.Og. Rid  _  c  IExpansion of elbalin power
San Felip.                                      _____________________Snn Pedr  tottion I x    Kw
jNeutitadif/nFsnf\Msnl
i-_  .   \   Chgo                     B E L I Z  E
j\Santan twht                       RRST POWER PROJECT
ORANGE WALK                                   Crank                   BEUZE ELECTRICITY BOARD (BEB)
DISTRICT
- enm~~~~~~~~~~~md n   Burril ln
Rehiblitation of existing   EnU  E                       A
-730 22Mwundt              DebgeD        BEUq                                                                                     I 1r 3e
TURNEWF=
ISLANDS
< i~~~~f   . .. q j DISTRICT
V-SaD del Gnnien                               Poon Asid                                         Pmposed DAbbonEqnsion
1100 CAYO DISTRICT                       alt aend Improvements                                                                      o
0     Proposed Gneation Expansion
. .Expansionofeasisng poer {g      STANN             A                                          xdnDesloeSain
ofstation,                   TANN Kw                                                   BastIng Diesel Power Stations
StIon. 1 x6WO Kw  9    CREEK       )                                      -         Main Roads
0  5   Kendal tOther Roads
;                {'      ~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT   /                                            NBatnol Capha
{  5->P OR iva_e    b                       Towns and Vihges
-- --   Disridc Boundafies
Cow           /ShineBihtVing.                                     Intemationa Boundaries
|   Medina Blank           4b                                                                         3P lKLOMETERS?   1,02 304 50
V                  /                                                 _  IHailgt          MIES O          tO       20       3
!  TOLEOO  Hellwdef DlSrRICT     qR,TOM.T, --lli-                                            rJr3Db
IfPW .W   flu
(Sen      Aonstallatio:of2old uni:rom                                    uqp*-uuS
San Pedm and Belmopan     t      aadfwpw.    a,w
-!l0rl            G       o      nIa  x 260 Kw. 1 x 300 Kw              aflhas _      soo                                         REC
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a .T                                                                         voazi
GUATEMALA                                                         Puerto Carted              asvAt-                      COLSRIS
MAY 19160



