Document of
The Wcrld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8380
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1924-BR)
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1877-BR)
FEBRUARY 9, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division
Brazil Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Tis document has a restrkd dibion and may be used by redpents only in the perfonnance of
.1    ~its          Inot      .. be       I  I    I. I               I



-~~~~~
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzado Novo (NCz$)1
US$1.00  =  NCz$4.332
NCz$1.00  -  US$0.232
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil   -  January 1 to December 31
Project   -  April 1 to March 31
1/ The new cruzado was introduced effective January 16, 1989.
2/ mid-October 1989.



FOR OFCIAL Um OLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olf  Ovcn,-wt"Gual
0w.ahns avaWtwn
February 9, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Ceara Second Rural Development Project (Loan .924-BR) and
Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Proiect (Loan 1877-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Brazil: Ceara Second Rural Developsint Project (Loan
1924-BR) and Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1877-BR)
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part
II prepared on the basis of comments received from the Borrower. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a retrct distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefromance
of their oMcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authofiztion.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAMIG         Companhia Agricola de Minas Gerais
(Agricultural Trade Company of the State of Minas Gerais)
CAP           Compra Antecipada da Produccao
(Forward Crop Purchasing Program)
CE            Ceara
CEPA          Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola
(State Agricultural Planning Commission)
COBAL         Brasilia Food Supply Company
CODAGRO       Comanhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(Ceara Agricultural Dvelopment Company)
COPASA        Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Hinas Gerais
(State Sanitation Company)
DAE           Departamento de Agua e Energia Eletrica
(State Water and Electric Energy Agency)
DAER          Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
DER-MG        Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais
(State Highway Department)
EMATER        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA       Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER      Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Co.)
R,PACE        Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara
(Ceara Agricultural Research Company)
EPAMIG        Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais
(Minas Gerais Agricultural Research Institute)
INCRA         Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Cnstitute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MG            Minas Gerais
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP          Northeast Rural Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1
OCF.C         Organizacao Cearense das Cooperativas
(Ceara Organization of Cooperatives)
POLONORDESTE  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
RURALMINAS    Fundacao Rural Mineira
(Rural Development Agency of Minas Gerais)
SAP           Special Action Program
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SEE           Secretaria de Estado da Educacao
(State Secretariat of Education)
SES           Secretariade Estado da Saude de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Health)
SEPLAN        Secretaria de Esadodo Planejamento et de Coordenacao
Geral de Minas Gerais
(State Planning and Coordination Secretariat)
SETAS         Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho, Acao Social e Desportos
de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Labour Social Action and Sports)
SUDENE        Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for Development of the Northeast)
SUDECOOP      Superintendencia de Cooperativismo da SEA
(State Superintendency of Cooperatives)



BRAZIL
uEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-BR)
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-BR)
COMBINED PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Preface .     .......................................................i
Evaluation Summary .......           .....................................
Part I   BANK PERSPECTIVE
Introduction                 ..........................                    1
Project Identity             ............................. .               1
Background                 ...........................                     2
Project Objectives and Description    ............................    3
Project Desian and Organization ...............................   4
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal ................        ..   4
Negotiations        ...............................................    5
Observation on Project Design ......          ........................   6
Proiect Implementation   ........................................          8
Extension ........................8.......................... 
Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Purchases   .....   8
Feeder Roads    .......................8........................ 
Health and Sanitation    ......................................         9
Project Coordination and Management ................                    9
Proiect Results ....                        ...........................................   9
Achievement of Objectives ....... .................. .........   9
Project Sustainability            ........................................  12
Bank Performance         ..............................................  13
Project Preparation and Appraisal ......         ....................  13
Supervision        ................................................  13
Borrower Performance           ..........................................  14
Project Documentation and Data .......         .........................  14
Conclusions and Recommendations .......          ........................  15



PART II  BORROWER'S OBSERVATION
Ceara Second Rural Development Project .........................   18
Minas Gerals Second Rural Development Project ..................   21
PART III IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS AND STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  Ceara Second Rural Development (Loan 1924-BR) ..............   25
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans ........................t   32
Table 2:  Project Timetable ..**..**4.......................4   33
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements *4**4**   34
Table 4:  Project Implementation: Key Performance Indicators ..   35
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing .............   38
Table 6:  Use of Bank Resources ....... o....6..* ...........    40
Table 7:  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan ..... .........   41
Table 8:  Rainfal. Data: 1974-1987        ............................    42
Table 9:  Production of Main Crops in the Project Area *.......   43
B. Minas Gerals Second Rural Development Project
(Loan  1877-BR)  ....44 4.444. 4444444. 44444444. 444.............  46
Table 10: Related Bank Loans ... ..... ................. .........   53
Table lls Project Timetable to...* o* *....*.....   ...*...4   54
Table 12: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ....o...   55
Table 13: Key Performance Indicators ...............* ......   56            I
Table 14: Project Costs and Financing ..................... O**   59
Table 15:  Use of Bank Resources o    ........ ***to  ............... ot*   62
Table 16: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan  ..............    63
Table 17:  Production of Main Crops in the State of Minas
Gerais                  ....  t...........           64
MAPS
IBRD 14875
IBRD 14876
IBRD 14954
IBRD 14693
IBRD 14694



BRAZIL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA (LOAN 1924-BR) AND
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS (LOAN 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Second Rural Development Project - Ceara and Second Rural Development
Project - Minas Gerais in Brazil. The Second Ceara Rural Development
Project, for which Loan 1924-BR of US$56.0 million was approved by the
Board in December 1980. Is was closed in December 1987, two years later
than expected. The last disbursement took place in December 1988. US$2.0
million has been cancelled and USS5.8 mill'o,n is undisbursed.  The Second
Minas Gerais Rural Development Project was supported by Loan 1877-BR of
US$63.0 million which was approved by the Board in June 1980. It was
closed in December 1987, two years later than expected and the last
disbursement took place in December 1988 when the outstanding loan balance
of US$30.7 million was cancelled.
The combined PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Brazil Department in the Latin American and the Caribbean
Region. It is based on a report prepared by the FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative
Programme which visited the projects in JanuarylFebruary 1989 and gathered
the required data from information prepared by the implementing agencies,
related Bank documents (SARs, Legal Agreements, Progress and Supervision
Reports, internal Bank memoranda and correspondence with the Borrower and
the implementing agencies), and discussions with associated staff in the
Bank and in Brazil.
The respective state authorities have reviewed Parts I and III of
the PCR and their review is included in the PCR as Part II.



- ii -
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ILOAN 1924-BR) AND
MINAS GERAIS SECoND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The Second Ceara Rural Development Project and the Second Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project were both repeater projects in their
respective states, aimed at improving income and the standard of living of
the poor through productivity improvements in agriculture and rural
industries, improvements in economic and social infrastructure and by
developing the administrative and technical capacity of the state
institutions. Although sharing the same objectives and similar components,
they differed in that the Ceara Rural Development Project was part of the
federally-supported POLONORDESTE program and covered the entire state,
while the Minas Gerais R:ral Development Pzoject was a state-supported
project covering four specific subregions equivalent to about half of the
state territory. It included areas in the southern part of the state with
a more humid climate than the dry Northeast.
2.       It was expected that some 60,000 farmers. or 20Z of the total,
would participate in the Second Ceara rural Development Project and that
most of the state's rural population of about 2 million would benefit from
the physical and social infrastructure investments. For the Minas Gerais
Rural Development Project, it was expected that some 30,000 farmers and
1,100 rural entrepreneurs would directly participate in the project and
that most of the population of some 102 municipalities would benefit from
the infrastructure investments.
3.       Substantial staff input from the Bank was used for the preparation
of both projects, reflecting the need to assist the states' planning
institutions and to further the strategic and technical aspects of
efficiently addressing rural poverty. The projects were well-prepared,
taking into account the implementation experience of the earlier Bank-
supported projects in these states. -However, the design of the projects
was complex in relation to the still limited implementation capacity of the
-state institutions, and some of the performance targets established at
appraisal proved overly optimistic. The decision not to provide
incremental seasonal credit under the projects may have constrained the
intensification of small farmers' production systems. The difficulties of
the Federal and state governments to provide in a timely manner, the
required funding for implementing the project, and for operating the
established services and facilities, suggests that the projects were larger
than that which could be sustained given the prevailing fiscal situation.



- iii -
4.       At apprais4l, total costs were estimated at US$163.2 million for
the Ceara Rural Development Project and at US$184.6 million for the Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project and the two Bank loans were to cover 34Z
of respective project costs net of taxes. In the context of the Bank's
Special Action Program to accelerati resource transfer to Brazil in 1983,
the Bank's financing percentage for both projects was raised for a limited
time to 672, resulting in an overall cost sharing of about 50S. At project
closing, the Bank had disbursed US$48.3 million or 86S of the Ceara Rural
Development Loan and cancelled US$7.8 million. In the case of the Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project, US$32.3 million or 512 of the loan was
disbursed and US$30.0 million cancelled in 1986 when the project was
redesigned and US$0.7 million was cancelled at project closing.
Implementation Experience
5.       Project implementation was significantly slower than expected
mainly because of the delays in providing counterpart funds. These issues
became particularly severe in the State of Minas Gerais, forcing a
restructuring of the project in 1986 which substantially reduced its scope
These financial constraints, together with problems of the participating
entities to effectively implement these complex projects, also contributed
to the project's performance shortfall.
Results and Sustainability
6.       Because the projects' administrations did not adequately monitor
the impact of the directly productive investments and given the
methodological difficulties of estimating the benefits of physical and
social infrastructure in.vestments, it is not possible to quantify the
impact of the projects. Judging from the agricultural performance in Ceara
and Minas Gerais, it can be concluded that the projects did not fully reach
their production and income objectives mainly because the assumed yield
and/or increases of cropped area between 50? to 852 were nob set.
Accordingly, the economic rates of return for the projects are likely to be
substantially below the original estimates of 19? and 16? for the Ceara and
the Minas Gerais Projects, respectively. On the other hand, the economic
impact of the improvei physical and social infrastructure as well as the
improvement in the land tenure conditions and institutional capacities will
only materialize fully in the future.
Findinta and Lessons Learned
7.       Main lessons drawn from the projects aret
(a)  the size and scope/complexity of a project needs to be
matched to existing institutional capacities and to the
available financial resources;
(b) the political, sociological and technical constraints to
facilitate changes, both in t'e effectiveness of public
sector institutions, as well as in behavior of beneficiaries,
need to be realistically assessed;



- iv -
(c) success of investment projects depends critically on
availability of viable, agricultural technologies and, in the
case of small farmers, of credit;
(d) successful land distribution is a multi-faceted issue which
cannot be handled effectively as a minor project component,
especially in a politically volatile environment;
(e)  successful project design and implementation requires the
participation of beneficiaries In project preparation; and
(f) Bank supervision needs tos i) reinforce suitable impact
evaluation procedures including the establishment of baseline
data; and iI) pay sufficient attention to technical aspects
of project implementation.



BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-BR)
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I : BANK PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.01    These two projects, supported by two Bank loans, were follow-up
schemes to earlier Bank-supported rural development projects in the two
states. They were executed over a similar period, were of similar size and
were both pioneering in different ways to widen the scope of ;he project
interventions in order to address a larger part of the rural poor in their
respective states.
1.02    A dr:aft for this combined PCR was prepared by ar. FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program mission 1 that visited Brazil fo. three weeks in early
1989. It is based on special reports and data collected and prepared by
the implementing agencies in the two project stas.es and related Bank
documents (Staff Appraisal Reports 3020-BR and 2924-BR; Loan Agreements;
Supervision Reports and associated correspondence and memoranda, etc.);
together with interviews held both in the Bank and in Ceara and Minas
Gerais with officials who were associated with the projects.
Proiect Identity
Project Names:                Ceara Second Rural Development Project
Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project
Loan Nos.:                    Loan 1924-BR and Loan 1877-BR
Regional Vice-Presidency:    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:                      Federative Republic of Brazil
Sector:                       Agriculture
Sub-sectors                   Rural Development
Amounts:                      US$56.0 million and US$63.0 million
1.03    These two projects were major interventions within the agricultural
sector of two states of Brazil. Key project data are provided in the
text tables below:
11 C. J. Bevan (FAO-CP) Mission Leader and A. Seminario (Consultant),
Agricultural Economist.



Coor. Second Rural Development Prolect
Appranisl      Actual or    Actual as X of
Estimate       Estimated       Appraisal
Actual         Estlmate
Total Project Cost (USS m)        163.2            -              58
Original Loan Amount (USt m)       56.0          48.2             86
Date of Board Approval              -           12/2/80
Loan Agreement Date                -            1/14/81
Date of Effectiveness           5/14/81         7/7/81            I30 1
Cloeing Date                   12/31/86        12/81/87           140 
Economic Rate of Return (X)        19           n e .            n.o.J
Mincs Corals Second Kural Development Prolect
Total Project Cost (USS m)        184.6          69.8             87
Original Loan Amount (USS m)      63.0           32.3             51
Date of Board Approval                          6/1/8o
Loan Agr_ment Date                 -            9/15/80            -
Date of Effectivenoss              -           12/16/80            -
Closing Date                   12/31/85        12/31/87           13B 
Economic Rate of Return (X)        16           n.o.!/           n.ac.
(1) Calculated In terms of months after Board approval.
(2) Insufficient data available to calculate ex-post ERR.
Backsround
1.04      For nearly one hundred years the Northeast of Brazil, an area that
includes the whole of the State of Ceara and the northernmost parts of
M4inas Gerais, has been viewed as a major problem area. With the exception
of certain coastal areas, industrial, commercial and agricultural
production has lagged behind that in the rest of the country. In 1974,
following a World Bank-funded study of the agricultural economy of the
region in 1973 and intensive dialogue with the Federal Government, the
Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE)
was established in 1974. The program sought to increase production,
productivity, incomes and living standards of small-scale farming families
in selected micro-regions. Over the next decade the Bank financed ten
POLONORDESTE projects, in eight of the northeastern states, and by 1987 had
financed 17 rural development projects in Brazil both within and outside of
the Northeast, with a total loan value of some US$950.0 million.
1.05      The second Ceara project was the ninth rural developmeat project
financed by the Bank in Brazil and the seventh within the POLONORDESTE
Program. It. was a follow-up to the first rural development project in
Ceara (Ln 1488-BR) which was limited to the Ibiapaba area. Unlike the
earlier project, it did not include funding of seasonal, medium or longer-



-3-
term credit, and it was state-wide, rather than focussed on specific micro-
regions. Loan disbursement was slower than anticipated at appraisal, the
closing date was extended for two years, and some US$2.0 million was
cancelled.
1.06     The Second Minas Gerais project was the seventh rural development
project financed by Lhe Bank in Brazil. It was essentially a replication
of the first project in Minas Gerais (Ln 1362-BR, centered on the Zona da
Mata region) in three additional poor regions of the state, including the
dry northeast where conditions are similar to those of the northeastern
states of Brazil. It differed from the project in Ceara in that the State
of Minas Gerais was the Borrower of the Bank loan rather than the Federal
Government. It also included components for feeder roads and marketing,
the omission of which had constrained the success of the first project.
Initially project implementation was very slow and a reformulation was
necessary at mid-term which resulted in a cancellation of US$30.0 million.
The project period was also extended for two years.
1.07     The agricultural achievements and limitations of both projects
must be set against the background of unusual low rainfall during the
1981-83 period and very heavy rains and severe flooding in some areas,
particularly in parts of Ceara, in 1984/85.
Proiect Objectives and Description
1.08     The overall objectives of both projects includedt increasing
productivity and incomes; broadening employment opportunities and generally
improving the standard of living of farm families and small-scale non-
agricultural enterprises; increasing agricultural and rural industry
production for local and export markets; improving physical and social
infrastructure; developing further the technical and administrative
capacity of institutions involved in agriculture and rural development in
the state, and encouzag'.ng the development of distinct small farmer
orientation within these institutions; and in Ceara, serving as a "pilot"
operation to test possibilities of planning and implementing state-wide
rural development programs in other states of the Northeast.
1.09     Components common to both projects included: agricultural
extension, experimentation, and land surveying, titling and purchase
services; cnoperative development; expansion of education and vocational
training services and health and sanitation facilities and services;
expansion of the municipal road maintenance facilities and upgrading of
feeder and access roads; development of marketing facilities and of small
irrigation and swamp reclamation schemes; technical assistance to small-
icale non-agricultural enterprises; and project coordination and
management, including administration, monitoring and evaluation and special
studies.
1 10     In addition, the project in Minas Gerais included: the provision
of medium- and long-term credit to small farmers and credit for rural
electrification; support for raforestation, and the installation of
telephone links in isolated communities. During project reformulation in
Mines Gerais, . component for seasonal credit for farmers was added.



-4 -
1.11     In Ceara the target population of the project was some 20Z of the
278,000 small farmers in the state.  These direct participants were limited
to holders of 50 ha or less in the areas of Ibiapaba, Baturite, Litoral,
Cariri and Baixo Jaguaribe, and 100 ha or less in the regions of Sertoes
Cearense, Quixeramobim and Inhamut.s e Salgado (see Map 1). Most of the
rural population (about 2.0 million people) was expected to benefit from
improved physical infrastructure, and 0.5 million were to have benefitted
from improved social infrastructure.
1.12     In Minas Gerais, project activities were concentrated in 102
municipalities, within four subregions (see Map 2) that had the highest
concentration of small low-income producers. It was estimated that 30,000
or some 40Z of the landowners in the project municipalities with less than
100 ha would benefit directly from the project, and that 1,100 small
entrepreneurs would be assisted. The investment in physical and social
infrastructure was expected to also benefit most of the other members of
the communities in the 102 municipalities.
Proiect Design and Organization
1.13     Identification, Preparation and Appraisal.  In both Ceara and
Minas Gerais, state officials were active in seeking further Bank
assistance for rural development once the first projects were under way.
Given the indications of initial success with the two area-specific
projects and the mutual objective of addressing the issue of the rural
poor, eat:ly agreement was reached to widen the project areas. There was,
however, considerable concern in Ceara and, to a lesser extent, in Minas
Gerais that widening the scope ef the projects would be risky because it
would call for higher degrees of coordination and integration of activities
by state institutions than had been experienced previously.
1.14     In Ceara, project planning was undertaken by the various
secretariats and agencies involved, coordinated by a team from the Ceara-
State Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-CE). Considerable Bank
assistance was also provided (three preparation missions) before the
project was appraised. This was in part due to the state-wide approach
adopted in Ceara and also reflects the transfer of responsibilities for
project planning to state authorities. Many programs of the kind in the
past had been federally devised and implemented. While the authorities
welcomed the chance to develop their own long-term plans, based on the
state's relative assets and constraints, they had little experience in such
planning. Particular problems were experienced in formulating the type of
interventions to be supported by the project and in formulating a project
management scheme. The basic approach used by CEPA-CE was to dc-fine broad
development targets for a five-year period, with greater component detail,
at least for the first year of the project. It was anticipated that
subsequent detailing of targets and components would be done yearly. The
project as originally proposed b7 CEPA-CE was very ambitious, and at
appraisal, the number of direct beneficiaries was halved to 60,000 small
farmers, and a number of other components were reduced or reformulated.



1.15     At the time of the Bank Identification Mission (May 1979), the
Government of Minas Gerais had prepared a preliminary study defining the
regions of the state with low-income small farmers that would form the
target group for the project. Subsequently, a project preparation team was
established from staff of the Secretariats of Agriculture and Planning, the
extension service (EMATER-MG) and the State Planning Institute, the Joao
Pinheiro Foundation. The work was coordinated by a group under the
Superintendent of Planning. Working groups were also set up in each of the
potential executing agencies to prepare each component. Preparation was
completed within four months, and although additional information was
required for a number of components, the Bank pre-appraisal mission found
the project proposals in overall agreement with the state's and the Bank's
objective of raising living standards for the rural poor. The overall size
of the project proposed was, however, larger than the Secretary of Planning
and the Bank felt was appropriate, and there was some scaling down of most
components at appraisal.
1.16     Negotiations.  In the case of Ceara, the main areas of
disagreement at negotiation concerned the Bank proposals for directly
channeling funds to the state and matters relating to credit. To ensure
liquidity, the Bank proposed advancing funds to be used as and when needed,
up to US$3.0 million against a similar deposit by the state into a special
project account at a bank in the state capital of Fortaleza. The
Brazilians said that this was not possible as federal funds for the project
would have to flow through the standard channels according to existing
budgetary and quarterly release procedures, which they said were being
improved.  The Bank accepted this posit4on.
1.17     With respect to credit, the Brazilians felt that since the project
was not financing credit there should be no reference to the amount of
credit likely to be needed, originally estimated at US$45 million. In the
event, it was agreed not to specify the amount. A second issue related to
the need of including credit in the project if and when suitable rural
credit terms could be adopted. The Brazilians felt they were unlikely to
be able to accept the Bank's conditions of reducing subsidies for credit.
It was, therefore, agreed that credit could not be part of the project.
1.18     In Minas Gerais, the close association among the Bank, the state
authorities and the preparation team during project preparation re;ulted in
straightforward negotiations. The principal alterations to the proposed
loan agreement concerned: inclusion of standard provisions relating to co-
financing; retroactive financing of key start-up activities undertaken by
the state (i.e. appointment of key personnel, administrative agreements
between agencies and initiation of special studies); and a commitment by
the state to make available funds for seasonal credit (since the Bank was
unable to finance such credit under the prevailing conditions of subsidized
interest rates). Assurances were also received from the state regarding
the continued employment of key staff hired under the first rural
development project in the form of a side letter. Minor amendments were
also made with respect to the provision of state funds for maintenance of
essential rather than all municipal roads in the project area, and for the
establishment of a system to eliminate unprogrammed subsidies for land
reclamation works.



- 6-
1.19     Observations on Proiect Desian.  In general, the conceptual
foundation for both projects was clear, and understood by most of the
participating parties. The projects were, however, innovative in that they
were based on extrapolating the early experiences of micro-regional
projects over a much larger area. The resulting projects were large and
complex, and undoubtedly their implementation stretched the resources of
CEPA-CE in Ceara and SEPLAN in Minas Gerais to their limits.
1.20     In terms of the components' design, administrative arrangements,
and the physical targets set in relation to the number of beneficiaries,
both projects were quite well planned. The main weaknesses of the project
appear to be the excessive number of components, the over-confidence in the
availability of financial resources to meet incremental working capital
needs of small farms and overly optimistic assumptions on yields at full
development. In particular it would seem that insufficient attention was
paid to the fact that Ceara is a very low rainfall area and the risk of
drought or poor rains is very high. The projects were also overly
optimistic with regard to the institutional capabilities of most of the
agencies, particularly health and sanitation and agrarian reform.
1.21     The timing of the projects was unfortunate.  Shortly after
negotiations, the first signs of the Brazilian financial crisis became
evident. In Ceara, this resulted in considerable delays in counterpart
funding which, with concommitant high inflation, meant substantial
budgeting problems and frequent use of investment capital for firancing
recurrent costs, especially salaries. In Minas Gerais, the situation was
critical because the anticipated additional co-financing never
materialized, and the state had great difficulty in honoring its commitment
to make available through the banking system medium, long-term or seasonal
credit to farmers, and to provide counterpart funds. By the third year of
the project only US$ 10.0 million of the US$63.0 million Bank loan had been
disbursed, and a major reformulation of the project became necessary.
1.22     The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
responsible for implementation were generally clearly defined and
understood. Considerable difficulties were, however, experienced initially
in coordinating the activities of the various agencies, often with very
serious consequences. For example, health posts were established in some
locations where it was not possible to provide potable water supplies,
because of a failure of the health and water authorities to agree on
locations; roads were improved or constructed for political reasons in
areas with low agricultural potential, because of a failure of EMATER and
the road authorities to Jointly plan interventions.
1.23     To some extent these problems arose because the agencies involved
had worked mostly independently of each other in the past and, therefore,
had little experience of cooperation and coordination. Political pressures
and staff changes also made cooperation difficult at times. In Ceara, the
effectiveness of the Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) within
CEPA-CE depended heavily upon the support it received from the State
Governor in his position as chairman of the State Raral Development
Council. When the Governor was interested in rural development, as was the
case early in the project, he was able to get the Secretaries of the State



-7-
Secretariats on the Council, and hence their staff, to cooperate. At other
times, it was not easy for the PCHU to ensure the necessary coordination,
relying only on signed convenios between CEPA-CE and the various agencies
involved.
1.24     In retrospect, it would appear that for both projects the lack of
a seasonal credit component had a negative impact on realizing project
objectives. Without this credit it was difficult for smal'l farmers to
adopt new technologies and thereby increase production and incomes. It is
worth repeating that the option was debated at length within the Bank at
the time of appraisal, and in the case of Ceara, even at negotiations. The
potential importance and risks associated with credit were recognized
early, but force of circumstance precluded satisfactory resolution of the
issue for a number of reasons. At the time of appraisal of the Ceara
project, the Bank was considering financing a rural credit project for the
whole POLONCRDESTE program and it was, therefore, agreed not to include
rural credit as a component. However, as preparation of the credit project
progressed, difficulties were experienced with regard to the Bank's
objective to reduce agricultural credit subsidies. In the end, the
proposed credit project was postponed with the result that there was no
Bank financing of agricultural credit in Ceara. Seasonal credit was
excluded from the Minas Ger&is project also because of the high credit
subsidies. Farmers were, therefore, obliged to rely on locally available
funds. However, due to the ensuing fiscal crisis, the amount of
agricultural credit was substantially reduced and, as subsidy levels
declined, few small farmers were willing to make use of what credit was
available in either state.
1.25     The problems associated with credit should, however, be seen in
the light of credit use in Brazil. In general, many small farmers in the
northeast of Brazil often use seasonal credit, when available and
Subsidized, as a means of survival until harvest time. They rarely use it
to buy inputs for high risk or subsistence production activities. In
addition, they are not usually willing to pay real interest rates on such
loans. For genuinely profitable activities, farmers will use credit
supplied at market interest rates. The failure of farmers to use credit
was, therefore, probably as much a response to the shortage of profitable
new alternative production techniques as to a shortage of credit per se.
1.26     Similarly, delays in counterpart funding were also correctly
predicted during preparation and appraisal as possible risks. However, the
counter-measures recommended by the Bank were not fully implemented, and
considerable funding delays were experienced by both projects. The
worsening fiscal situation clearly played a major role.
Proiect Implementation
1.27     Both projects were complex and contained a large number of
components. An outline of the achievements and constraints faced by the
components is provided in Part III. Discussion here is limited to rural
extension, land surveys, feeder roads and health and sanitation, which
together accounted for some 782 and 672 of pro5ect costs in Ceara and Minas
Gerais, respectively.



-8-                                                -
1.28     Extension.  In both states, targets were generally achieved for
incremental staff numbers, offices and farmers assisted. However,
counterpart funding difficulties severely limited the activities of the
extension service, with most resources being used to pay salaries. In both
states, the standard of extension services provided was in many areas poor             a
due to a high turnover of staff, and poor staff morale due to low salaries.
The shortage of seasonal credit constrained the uptake of improved
technologies and only a few farmers raised incomes and output substantially
as a result of the efforts of the extension services. A significant
achievement in both states is the orientation of extension activity towards
small farmer groups. Initially, cooperation between extension and research
services was poor, but towards the end of the projects this improved
considerably, and the research services began to orient their programs
towards the needs of small farmers.
1.29     Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Purchase. The survey
and titling activities were generally successful. In Ceara some 11,700
farmers received titles, nearly twice the number (6,500) estimated at
appraisal; however, only 116,500 ha or 55Z of the survey target of 300,000
ha was reached. In Minas Gerais, the situation was reversed with slightly
fewer than the 14,000 targeted farmers receiving titles, while the area
surveyed exceeded targets. Land purchase and redistribution was, however,
a failure with less than 10? of the target number of farm families being
allocated land in Ceara. This is attributed largely to a lack of political
will and procedural delays in the operation of the National Institute of
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA).
1.30     Feeder Roads.  In Ceara, only 1,370 km or 61Z of the target for
road improvement was reached. This is attributed mainly to funding delays
and resulting cost overruns. The quality of road works is reported to be
generally poor, and the selection of roads for improvement was often made
on political grounds. In Minas Gerais, the target was nearly achieved
(902) although shortage of funds meant that most of the work was
rehabilitation rather than construction of new roads. In general, the
quality of work was poor. In neither state were maintenance units
established or the equipment specified at the time of appraisal acquired.
1.31     Health and Sanitation.  This was the most difficult component.
Health posts and center targets were not achieved in either state, and only
some 502 of the proposed water supply and sewage systems were installed. In
addition to funding problems, there was considerable political interference
and poor cooperation among the implementing agencies.
1.32     Proiect Coordination and Management. A State Rural Development
Council was created to coordinate and guide rural development activities in
Ceara.  It was headed by the Governor, and in his absence, by the State
Secretary of Planning. Day-to-day coordination, administration, evaluation
and monitoring of the project was undertaken by the Project Coordination
and Management Unit (PCMU), established within CEPA-CE. The PCMU was
effective in coordinating the activities of the various executing agencies
-4i.en it had the support of the State Rural Development Council; otherwise,
it had problems because each executing agency had the tendency to see the
project as a resource to finance its own activities within its own
priorities and timing.



- 9 -
1.33     In Minas Gerais, the Project Management Unit was generally well
organized and quite effective, given the financial difficulties experienced
by the project.
Proiect Results
1.34     Achievement of Obiectives.  Final evaluation reports for both
Ceara and Minas Gerais are still under preparation by the states and
expected to be available by the end of 1989. However, from currently
available data and field observations it would appear that, overall, the
results of the projects are mixed. On the one hand, there is little
evidence to suggest that overall agricultural production or average farm
incomes increased as a result of the projects' activity. In addition, the
achievement of the long-term benefits arising from improved infrastructural
facilities in some regions may be less than expected because the shortage
of recurrent funding limits their operation. On the other hand in both
states the implementation targets for key indicators (see Tables 4 and 13)
were, with a few notable exceptions, largely achieved or even exceeded.
There are, therefore, now more and better schools, health facilities,
cbmmunity centres and roads in the poorer regions of the two states.
1.35     Agricultural Impact.  Generally speaking, the monitoring and
evaluation of the project impact on agriculture was lLiited in Ceara.
Despite repeated requests by Bank supervision missions in the early years
of the project, no farm survey or baseline study data on farm incomes is
available. Similarly, by January 1989, no monitoring or evaluation data on
crop production or farm incomes of project beneficiaries was available. It
is, therefore, not possible to estimate an economic rate of return for the
project.
1.36     In the absence of farm survey data, the mission reviewed state
crop production statistics for the project period (see Tables 9 and 17 of
Part III).  Field observat'ons and discussions with farmers and project
staff were also used. State production statistics can, however, at best
only provide a limited indication of what happened, as they relate to all
farmers and not just project beneficiaries. In addition, they are subject
to considerable inaccuracies due to the sampling and collation methods
used. It must also be stressed that the early years of the projects
(1981-83) were years of drought. These not only caused substantial crop
losses, but also resulted in a redirection of the extension services
towards emergency actions rather than the provision of regular production
advice. Even after the 1983 drought, the extension services took some time
to revert fully to normal functioning.
1.37     Ceara. Cotton is the most important small farmer cash crop in
Ceara, and at appraisal it was anticipated that output due to the project
would increase by some 272 equal to 54,000 t/p.a. mainly from the
substitution of low-yielding perennial tree cotton by higher-yielding
annual cotton. In fact, the tree cotton area did decline drastically from
825,000 ha to 180,000 ha by 1987. Over the same period, there was a
corresponding annual increase in the area planted to annual cotton from
51,000 to 215,000 ha. However, yields were variable and, after peaking in



- 10 -
1984 total output declined. By the end of the project (1987), total output
had fallen to 22,000 t from an estimated 196,000 t in 1979 as a result of
the cotton pest bicudoo or American boll weevil.
1.38     After cotton, the most significant incremental output was
anticipated to come from corn and beans, the traditional subsistence crops
of the area. During the project period, production levels of both varied
substantially from year to year, and no clear production trends are
apparent. In 1982, 1984 and 1985 when rainfall was average or good,
production of both exceeded pre-project output. However, in the other
years output was much lower than before the project, and in 1987, at the
end of the project, production was less than 50X of pre-project output.
1.39     Production of a number of crops has, however, increased over the
project period. Output of manioc and sugarcane gradually increased since
the very dry year of 1983. There was a substantial increase in the area of
cashew nut, possibly replacing some of the land previously used for
perennial cotton. However, much of the cashew is produced by medium and
I%rge farmers, rather than by the intended project beneficiaries. Rice
output has also increased from 30,500 t to 111,000 t, exceeding appraisal
estimates substantially, although it is not clear that the incremental
output comes from project interventions.
1.40     Despite these increases in output, the overall level of
agricultural production would appear to be significantly lower than that
anticipated at appraisal. If an analysis was to be done the economic rate
of return would be much lower than the 192 estimated at appraisal.
1.41     Minas Gerais.  As for Ceara, at the time of the mission visit no
data or analysis was available indicating the project's impact on
agricultural production. Accordingly, an analysis was made of state
statistics. Given that the project area covered some 50? of the state,
major trends could be detected from the state statistics.
1.42     At appraisal, it was anticipated that the maize output in the
project area would increase by some 60Z to 387,000 t. In fact, maize
production remained virtually static, with the variation experienced
attributed to seasonal climatic variations. Output of beans, originally
expected to increase by a similar amount, if anything, declined. Rice
output was expected to increase by nearly 75?, and in fact, there was an
increase in rice output from 690,000 t in 1980/81 to 950,000 t in 1986, the
last year for which data is available. Conversely, there was a substantial
reduction in the output of manioc from 1.8 m tons to 1.1 m tons over the
same period, compared to a projected increase of 55?.
1.43     In addition to these main crop trends, field visits to farms
indicate that some farmers in the project area raised their output of
specific commodities. In Vale do Rio Doce region, for example, one farmar
group is reported to have raised milk output by 202 through the use of
improved pasture grasses and group transport of milk to a local factory on
an improved rural road using a truck purchased under the project. Tractors
supplied to similar groups also helped raise output by increasing the areas
cultivated, and output also increased from some of the reclaimed swamp
areas. However, these isolated cases have to be set against reports
suggesting that recent rises in the real cost of seed and fertilizer have



- 13. -
depressed aggregate output, and overall there is little doubt that
production increases did not reach appraisal targets. The predicted
economic rate of return of 162 has almost certainly not been achieved.
1.44     Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises.  No quantitative data
are available for either Ceara or Minas Gerais on the impact of this
component. However, the consensus of opinion among officials in both
states is that it was quite successful, and that a substantial number of
the beneficiaries have raised their incomes.
1.45     Institutional Develo2ment.  Both projects were complex, involving
the coordination and cooperation of a large number of state agencies and
institutions, and considerable coordination difficulties were experienced,
particularly in the early years. However, the system of inter-agency
coordination established by the creation of a State Rural Development
Council presided over by the Governor and supported by a Project
Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) within CEPA-CE, generally appeared
to function well in Ceara. Similarly, the particip.tion of the
implementing agencies through "project managers' in the consultative group
and project management of the Minas Gerais Project proved to be an
effective coordination arrangement. The projects can, therefore, be said
to have established an institutional mechanism to implement complex state
rural development projects.
1.46     The main weaknesses of the inter-agency coordination were the high
turnover of staff and the dependence upon the political support of the
Governor to ensure effective cooperation by the implementing agencies.
Future projects of this kind need a more powerful instrument than convenios
to ensure such cooperation.
1.47     A second important institutional development was the reorientation
of both the research and extension services towards small farmers. In
particular, the extension services in both states are now concentrating
more of their activity on providing advice to groups of farmers through
farmer associations and producer groups formed under the projects. They
are also planning their annual work programs with these farmer groups. The
professional competence and dedication of many of the extension service
personnel in both states have been impressive. Many of these staff were
employed and trained under the projects, and evidence suggests that the
services are making an important contribution to improving farming
practices of a number of smaller farmers.
1.48     A further institutional development of importance is the
recognition by most of the agencies involved in rural development that they
must involve the intended beneficiaries in the planning of initiatives, and
that there is a need to coordinate activity among themselves. Beneficiary
involvement has generally become an important aspect in follow-up projects.
1.49     Irrigation Schemes.  There can be little doubt that many of the
irrigation schemes in Ceara and the flood plains (varzeas) schemes in Minas
Gerais have raised the productivity of many of the farms involved.
However, many early schemes were designed with little or no consultation
with the land owners or users and in a number of cases siting of canals,
pumps and diversion structures has resulted in local disputes and a failure
to exploit the development to the full. Problems were also experienced in



- 12 -
obtaining credit for these investments, and many were actually provided by
total grant or were very heavily subsidized. Of even greater concern is
the apparent lack of institutional responsibility and funding mechanisms to
ensure correct operation and maintenance of schemes.
1.50     Other Project Benefits and Effects.  The projects had a large
number components (land titling, roads, schools, improved health and
sanitation facilities; rural electrification and telephones), the benefits
of which are difficult to observe directly. Their targets and achievements
are given in Part III, Tables 4 and 13. There is little doubt, however,
that not only the direct project beneficiaries, but the whole population in
the project areas has benefitted from these improvements where they were
successfully installed. In particular, the improved health, sanitation and
education facilities are contributing to human resource development in the
project areas, although the rate of development is very slow.
1.51     The construction and enlargement of roads and the small irrigation
schemes have had an effect on the local environment. However, there is no
evidence to suggest that these changes are ecologically damaging.
Proiect Sustainability
1.52     Overall prospects for project sustainability in both states for
most components and benefits depend largely upon the level of recurrent
funding for staff salaries and annual operational expenses provided by the
state governments. The Northeast Rural Development follow-up projects
supported by the Bank are helping in this respect. However, given the
present fiscal crisis in Brazil and the recently proposed reduction in
federal funding of state projects, it may be difficult to provide adequate
resources for systems established under the projects without revising the
funding priorities at the state and federal levels.
1.53     Further improvements in agricultural productivity will depend
largely upon adequate financing of the extension services, availability of
credit, together with improvements in commodity prices. Unfortunately,
there are already signs of retrenchment in the size and scope of the
extension services in both states. In Ceara, manpower levels have so far
been maintained, but operational funding is so low that many extension
staff do not have vehicles or enough funds to travel to farmers. In Minas
Gerais 8 of the 18 new offices built and staffed under the project have
already been closed due to shortage of funds and further substantial staff
reductions are anticipated. Credit is available, but few small farmers in
either state are presently able to use it given the relatively low prices
currently received for commodities. The institutional structures
established for implementing the projects have, with the modification
adopted during project execution, served the implementation of the follow-
up projects well and, more importantly, strengthened che states' capacity
to administer their rural development efforts.
Bank Performance
1.54     Proiect Preparation and Appraisal.  The Bank's inputs of 245 staff
weeks in Ceara and 250 staff weeks in Minas Gerais were very similar.
However, in Minas Gerais, the project was largely prepared by the State



- 13 -
Planning Institute, whereas in Ceara preparation was coordinated by a team
within CEPA-CE. This group clearly had much less experience in project
preparation than the State Planning Institute in Minas Gerais, and a number
of officials in CEPA-CE are of the opinion that had there been more Bank
involvement, project formulation would have been better. To some extent
this view is supported by the fact that negotiations for the Ceara project
were considerably more complex and lengthy than those for Minas Gerais
indicating a larger number of outstanding issues that could have been
resolved earlier if preparation had been more thorough. In both states the
Bank appears to have underestimated the difficulties in ensuring the
availability of credit and of sufficient qualified staff for the
implementing agencies to handle their extensive responsibilities
effectively from the very beginning.
1.55     Supervision.  Supervision in Ceara was fairly regular, with at
least two visits every year (Table 6 and 15). The early missions were,
however, more comprehensive than later ones, and included an
agriculturalist and at least one other technical expert. Towards the
middle and end of the project, a number of supervision missions were
single-person visits which concentrated mainly on financial aspects of the
project. PCMU staff report finding all supervision valuable, but that in
general, the time allowed for supervising such a complex project, often
concommitantly with the supervision of the first rural development project,
was insufficient. As such, the Bank was only able to effect moderate
technical influence on the implementation of the project components. The
Bank was also unable to prevent or reduce the political interference that
severely hindered implementation in the early years. It was, however,
successful in improving project funding through the Special Action Program
and the establishment of Special Accounts in late 1983.                                  F
1.56     Given the time constraints, project complexity, dispersion over
huge areas, political influences and high staff turnover, supervision of
these projects was a herculean task. In the circumstances, and given the
vital importance of the release of budgeted counterpart funds, it was
probably right that most supervision time was spent on this issue.
However, as previous rural development project completion reports in Brazil
have noted2 , the dialogue would have been more effective if a consistent
portion of supervision time had also been assigned to addressing technical
issues in a continuing and coordinated fashion. Finally, the Bank
initiative in extending both projects twice for one year was reasonable and
contributed substantially to a fuller component implementation and better
achievement of targets.
Borrower Performance
1.57     Borrower performance was rath.er mixed.  In Minas Gerais, regular
reporting was generally quite good. In Ceara, quarterly reports were
received regularly, and on time, and their quality improved substantially
over the period of the project. In both states, considerable problems were
experienced with the the design and monitoring of the farm surveys.
2/ Project Completion Reports for Loans 1195-BR, 1488-BR, 1537-BR,
1714-BR, and 1728-BR.



- 14 -
1.58     Adherence to covenants appears to have beev a major problem in
both states in the early years. In large part, this can be attributed to
the shortage of counterpart funding which caused delays and precluded the
provision of adequate credit. However, many of the covenants related to
the provision of annual plsas (for specific components) and special mid-
term reports, and both states found it difficult to comply with all these
covenants. There were similar problems in the hiring of consultants, many
of whom were hired late due to fund shortages.
1.59     Timely auditing was a problem in both states, but particularly in
Ceara.
Proiect Documentation and Data
1.60     The Staff Appraisal Reports for both projects provided a suitable
framework for both the Bank and state authorities during project
implementation. However, detailed recommendations for a number of
components were not followed. For example, in neither state were municipal
road maintenance units staffed and equipped as agreed at appraisal. The
irrigation and lowland reclamation components were poorly implemented
largely because of a failure of the executing agencies involved to follow
the SAR guidelines and cooperate from the start. Similarly, failure to
follow the advice to cooperate was partly the reason for the failure of the
land settlement component in Ceara and of the cooperative and marketing
c,mponent in both states. To a large extent, these shortcomings can be
attributed to the late and inadequate release of funds which reinforced the
tendency of implementing agencies to look after their own interests before
any joint activity. They also reflect undue optimism about the
institutional and tecnlaical feasibility of some of its proposals.
1.61     Project evaluat!oa and reporting were variable.  In Ceara, despite
pressure from Bank supervision missions, the PCMU was unable to make
available adequate initial farm survey data and evaluation efforts were
largely frustrated. In contrast, in Minas Gerais annual evaluation reports
were generally clear and well presented. This may be due to the fact that
responsibility for evaluation was contracted out to the University of
Vicosa. However, the methodology used to determine the overall
agricultural benefit of the project in Minas Gerais is open to question.
The method used is based on extrapolating the results of annual interviews
with a sample group of farmers identified at project inception. While
these farmers may well have been reasonably representative before the
project started, there is considerable evidence that those remaining in the
survey were better than average, and that they received extra advice as a
result of being part of the university survey. Given the overall status of
only marginal increases in output in the state since the project began, it
seems most unlikely that the projected 292 ERn reported for the survey
farmers is representative of the state as a whole.
1.62     With regard to data made available for the PCRs, both states were,
at the time of the mission, finalizing their evaluation reports. Despite
the non-availability of evaluation reports, both states provided a largc
quantity of data on component implementation and costs, and arranged
intensive field visits for the mission that provided most of the



- 15 -
information required. This information, and that of the annual reports
prepared by the Department of Rural Economics at Vicosa tended to be rather
subjective and lacked specific information (other than financial
expenditure or physical targets achieved) about new varieties introduced,
or the number of farmers adapting new teclnologies, the impact of the
project investments on the standard of living and incomes, etc.
Conclusions and Recommendations
1.63     Conclusions.  It must be concluded that inadequate local funding
of the projects was one of the most important causes of the projects'
difficulties.  In Ceara only 272 (Table 5.B) of the estimated local                     '-
contribution at the time of appraisal was released.  In Minas Gerais the
failure of the state to provide the necessary local funding resulted in
drastic project reformulation, and even then, only 75? of the planned local
contribution was made available (see Table 14B). There can be little doubt
that these shortfalls were the main cause of the failure to achieve certain
targets. Indeed it is a remarkable achievement that so many targets were
met given the shortfall in local funds.
1.64     As investment initiatives designed to generate additional
resources sufficient to cover the costs of most of the investments made,
neither project can be regarded as successful.  With the exception of the               H
limited area developed for irrigation, agricultural productivity and farm
incomes in both states would appear not to have increased as anticipated at
appraisal. Three basic reasons for this are suggested:
- yield increases, especially in Ceara, anticipated for the main
crops were overly optimistic. In this area of known drought
risk, yield incy-.ment increases over the five year period for
the main crops were estimated at 50-85? with little supporting
evidence or justification;
- undue confiden:e was placed in the ability of a number of the
executing agencies. In particular, this applies to the ability
of the extension services to rapidly change their orientation
from large commercial to small subsistence farmers. It also
applies to the the health, san4tation and land agencies; and
- project design was heavily dependent upon the use of seasonal
credit to raise the level of input usage and hence yields,
despite the fact that neither project initially had a seasonal
credit component. Instead the projects were both entirely
dependent upon assura;ices rrom state and federal authorities
that adequate seasonal credit would be available, assurances
that the authorities were subsequently unable to honor.
1.65     While the number of direct farmer beneficiaries fell far short of
target in terms of increased incomes, both projects have clearly benefitted
a substantial number of communities through improved social and economic
infrastructure. In particular, improved access has enabled farmers to
increase the quantity and quality of produce marketed, and all members of
the communities served by better roads have benefitted either from the
introduction of a regular bus service, or from increased merchant traffic.



_ 16 -
The benefits from education, health and sanitation facilities will only be
apparent in the long run, and then only if adequate operational funding is
available. Evidence to date indicates that funding will be inadequate to
maintain and operate all the new infrastructure created, but that in both
states more facilities and services will remain operational than before the
project.
1.66     The projects have also had a number of institutional achievements.
The research and extension services in both states are beginning to work
together and to focus their attention and resources towards small farmers.
There is also general recognition by the implementing agencies that
participative planning involving all the agencies involved and intended
beneficiaries is essential, and that schemes imposed from outside and
without consultation are bound to fail. The project management structures
established in both states, although vulnerable to political pressure, have
by the end of the project established effective working procedures and have
in general coordinated satisfactorily the implementation of two very large              -
and complex projects.
1.67     With hindsight. it is tempting to suggest that both projects, but
particularly the one in Minas Gerais, were too large and had too many
components. It is interesting, for example, that in Min-as Gerais the
project was substantially reduced at appraisal, and then again at
reformulation, and that the reformulated targets were generally achieved.
This would tend to indicate that the reduced, reformulated targ8ts were
closer to the absorptive capacity of the state than the original ones. In
both states, the complexity of the projects and the demand for inter-agency
cooperation were too great for the project management units to cope with
initially, and considerable wastage and inefficiencies resulted. However,
given the worsening fiscal situation in Brazil during the project
implementation period, limited funds, as opposed to limited absorptive
capacity, may be the more important factor.
1.68     Recommendations.  The projects have benefitted some of the rural
poor in both states and the project interventions made an important social
and economic contribution. It seems appropriate, however, to make the
following suggestions if and when future projects for small farmer
development in northeastern Brazil are considered:
-   the size and scope/complexity of a project needs to be matched
to existing institutional capacities to available financial
resources;
-   the political, sociological and technical constraints to
facilitate changes, both in the effectiveness of public sector
institutions, as well as, in behavior of beneficiaries need to
be realistically assessed;
-   success of investment projects depends critically on
availability of viable, agricultural technologies and, in the
case of small farmers, of credit;
- successful land distribution is a multi-faceted issue which
can not be handle4 effectively as a minor project component
especially in a politically volatile environment;



_ 17 -
successful project design and implementation requires the
participation of beneficiaries in project preparation; and
Bank supervision needs to reinforce suitable impact evaluation
procedures including the establishment of baseline data and
pay sufficient attention to technical aspects of project
implementation.



- 18 -
PART II s BORROWER OBSERVATIONS
CEARAs SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
prepared by CEPA-CE
2.01     The Second Rural Development Project in CearA comprises a program
which differs from its predecessors because it had been prepared within the
framework of a statewide planning exercise.
2.02     The ecoro'mic importance of the project for CearA and the social
significance of its small farmer orientation reflect tse World Bank's
recognition of the State Government's commitment.
2.03     The project's technical proposal was based on information
resulting from studies by CEPA-CE, which led to the preparation of reviews
of various sub-regions and the identification of constraints in the State's
agricultural economy. These reviews sought to identify sub-regions with
the greatest response capability to public and private investments.
2.04     This new proposal also took into account the state's experience in
carrying out other Integrated Rural Development Projeats.
2.05     The project's main objectives were defined for the purpose of
improving the standard of living of small farmers, with a view to decrease
absolute poverty, income disparities and the displacement of population.
2.06     The innovative nature of the Ceara Project, in relation to
previous projects, lies in its basic strategy - to stimulate the
organization of farmers by restructuring land tenure and economic
incentives. This is the most controversial and ambiguous aspect of the
proposal. The strategy consists of a process of socio-economic
reorganization with a view to implement and consolidate social structures
that would allow small farmers to overcome their present social dependency.
On the one hand, farmer organization is viewed as a means by which farmers
would become aware of their current situation, formulate various
alternative causes of action, and proceed to make changes in their living
conditions. On the other hand, it is suggested that the types of social
organization to be brought about through project action would also serve as
production organizations.
2.07     Viewee in these terms, the ambiguity in project concept becomes
apparent. First, the concept presents merely the productive aspect of
organization, raising the issue of the state's ability to provide
incentives to farmers organizing themselves into groups. Second, the
concept refers to internal structures of various types of associations,
based on existing organizations, and points out advantages in terms of
greater number of farmers served, timeliness and efficiency in carrying out
project actions, etc.
2.08     In a situation marked by the emergence of popular movements which
began in the mid-1970s (anti-inflation, health, unionization, rural land-
ownership rights, etc.), the state's new position gained significance.



- 19 -
Therefore, the period of political unrest between 1975-80, together with
advances of the popular movements, were reflected in the new position taken
by the state whose social programs after 1978 included the organized
participation of the population in the development process. Thus, the
emphasis on farmer organization/participation shows a rapprochement on the
part of the state toward popular movements.
2.09     With regard to restructuring of land tenure and redirecting
economic incentives, it was expected that: (a) the set of land tenure
measures would stimulate small farmers' independence; and (b) consistent
measures regarding economic incentives would be the key factors in land
tenure reform and in overcoming other bonds of dependency not related to
land ownership.
2.10     Stated in these terms, the sttategy followed is consistent with
the analysis of the state's agriculture and its objectives, insofar as it
proposes modernizing small-scale production and measures which could have
impacted on the land ownership structure, i.e., one of the most basic
factors limiting the independence of the small farmer. Progress in this
respect remains largely limited to discussions of the role of the State,
since in the distribution of resources earmarked for implementation of land
tenure actions were only about 17.6? of total forecasted.
2.11     Several changes were made to project components, in light of prior
experience with POLONORDESTE. Added were land tenure organization, small-
scale irrigation systems, and manpower training. Excluded were rural
electrification and storage. Water resource development was regrettably
not included.
2.12     The exclusion of rural electrification was viewed as positive,
according to studies; besides the high investment costs involved, this
component would have raised land prices, making it even less affordable to
rural workers.
2.13     In light of past experience, the project implementation included a
substantial risk since it required a high level of coordination and
participation on the part of state agencies.
2.14     Despite its complexity and multiple components, it is felt that
Ceara II was an important contribution to the State's agricultural sector;
it influenced the state's economy both directly and indirectly, especially
in the services sector, with an increase in trade in a number of locations,
and an expansion of the official and private banking system.
2.15     These changes, although unquestionable, were not compatible with
the extent of the investments made and objectives. In other words, they
were not enough to improve the standard of living, especially among the
neediest sectors of the population.
2.16     The major constraints encountered during project implementation
were:
- lack of effective coordination among implementing agencies,
causing slackness and distortion in implementing planned
actions;



- 20 -
- undue concern about quantitative compliance with project
targets to the detriment of qualitative and operational
aspects;
- despite the project's emphasis on community participation in
implementing the plan, such participation was negligible;
- political interference in project implementation caused gaps
between actions planned and those actually carried out, besides
being a disincentive to project officers;
- the inadequate land tenure structure, noted in the study,
remained nearly unchanged and planned actions were
insignificant;
-  von-complance with the plane for providing firancial
resources, especially delays in releasing funde, had a negative
effect on reaching project goals;                                              a
- the content and strategy of actions included in the operating
plans were not sufficient to meet the real needs of small
farmers and their families;
- staff changes on various levels affected continuity in the
direction of management with respect to project concept,
strategies and content of annual work programs; and
- lack of a project information system hampered follow-up,
evaluation and restructuring efforts, as well as timely
identification and correction of problems.
2.17     The main problems in carrying out project evaluation included:
- CEPA's research and evaluation department had no director for
several months, which caused difficulties in technical and
bureaucratic work flow;
- difficulties in hiring consultants for support in matters of
methodology;
- constant absences of project officers due to participation in
other activities;
- initial difficulties in carrying out field work of the farmers
because of the dispersed locations;
-  constant changes in project monitoring indicators given in the
annual work programs, thus hampering standardizaticn and a
historical analyses;
- absence of records of calculations and analyses carried out to
justify changes in project design during its period of
effectiveness. For one component, various tables are available
with different numbers, making coherent analysis impossible;
and



- 21 -
- technical specialization by component of CEPA's H & E
department made project-specific data inconsistent. The
absence of technical officers resulted in widespread loss of
pertinent information.
2.18     Considerations on the effects and impact of the project on its
beneficiaries, can be summarized as follows:
- the family units studied reflect the more general situation of
lack of resources for purchasing inputs needed to expand
production. This situation points at the decline and
consequent proletarization of a large number of small rural
land-owners;
- notwithstanding this weakening of the proiuctive base of the
small farmers' economy, it needs to be appreciated that it
brings with it, cases of improved production as a result of
increasing differentiation among small farmers;
- unsatisfactory project performance resulted, among other
factors, in the disjointed and discontinuous way in which                 F"
actions were implemented. Actions such as technical assistance
should not be separated from land tenure action, credit policy
on terms adequate to provide access by small farmers, effective
policy of guaranteeing farmers' minimum prices, etc.; and
- A true impact on the level of accelerated growth in productive
capacity and consequently on small farmers' living conditions
can only be attained through the development of activities
which directly generate income, such as establishment of
permanent crops, herd build-up, irrigated cropping, etc..
2.19     Therefore, actions on the part of the State should not only be of
a complementary and subsidiary nature, but should also ensure the creation
of a productive system able to generate and forecast resources to cover
operating costs and facilitate the development of a self-sufficient
production system.
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prepared by the Cabinet of the State Secretariat of
Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply
2.20     Rural Credit.  The difficulties in implementing the rural credit
component arose from the high interest rates set by banking agents, thus
making it impossible for small farmers to utilize the credit. With the
signing of the agreement with BDMG, which granted investment and/or
operating credit at more appropriate maturities and interest rates, demand
for credit increased greatly, especially for investments in the area of
rural electrification. It was unfortunate that maturities were not
flexible enough to allow the agencies involved to work in a more organized
manner.



- 22 -
2.21     Regularization of Land Tenure.   We share the Bank's view with
regard to benefits obtained from property titles granted to small farmers.
However, more meaningful results could have been achieved, were it not for
the dismantling of RUURALMINAS and the departure of many technicians.
Recent results were less than satisfactory.
2.22     Aaricultural Extension.  Although affected by the absence of rural
credit, technical assistaz.ce and rural extension work under the Program may
be considered very good given the extensionists' participation and decisive
contributions in nearly all components of the Program and their active
participation in community development programs. Various complex extension
methods were used efficiently in nearly all the districts in the program
area. Unfortunately, with the closing of MG II, offices are now also
closed and extensionists have been transferred or dismissed, thus leaving
extension work unfinished in several districts.
2.23     Agricultural Research.  Initial performance was affected by. among
other factors, the institution's lac-: of experience in developing programs
for "low income, populations. The result was that during its initial
years, the Program's performance was considered unsatisfactory. After
these difficulties were overcome (shortage of technical staff, lack of
coordination with other organizations, etc.), field research was carried
out and the results were made available to farmers. However, the practical
results of these experiments are unknown and therefore, EPAMIG is accused
of not bringing about changes in small farmers' production. yields and
production methods.
2.24     Land Reclamation.  Performance was notable only in the Gouveia
area where there was excellent coordination between implementing agencies
(RURALMINAS and EMATER), through low-cost, Joint ownership projects,
involving individual community or farmer resources. There were noticeable
improvements in crop prodiletionlproductivity for family consumption and in
sale of surplus production. However, these projects are handicapped by the
present situation of the implementing agencies. Unfortunately, much was
expected from these small projects oriented to small farmers.
2.25     Reforestation.  The implementing agency had difficulties in
developing an integrated work program, but it did reach some of its goals.
It was unable to conclude rubber-tapping and agro/forestry/grazing
projects. despite repeated releases of material and financial resources.
Of the 11 farms selected, only 1, in the district of Itamarandiba, was
implemented but not completed by the end of the project.
2.26     Marketing.  The complex and diverse nature of planned activities
required the participation of several institutions in order to reach the
proposed goals. Due to this complexity, its goals were defined as the
Program evolved. The 'Construction of Community Warehouses' is
highlighted; this activity benefitted several local governments in the
program area, thus contributing to the organization of 'farmers' groups'
and 'purchase of inputs', with an appreciable cost reduction to farmers and
a strengthening of their spirit of mutual cooperation.



_ 23 -
2.27     Roads.  This component enabled the improvement of rural roads and
farmers' ability to market their crops. The maintenance of these roads by
local governments is cause for concern, because of lack of equipment and
resources. Certain contractors deserve criticism by project coordinators
and local government authorities for poor workmanship.
2.28     Rural Telephone System.  Although only 74Z of the revised goal was
reached, beneficiaries are highly satisfied with the 'telephone stations'.
Unfortunately, the implementing agency had difficulties in completing this
task.
2.29     Education. Positive results were achieved in all districts in the
program area, reflecting extensive efforts and dedication by the staff in
spite of limited financial resources. The implementation of the '3choul
innovation' component is highlighted; this was well received by te&chers
and students alike, and implementing agency staff coordinated and
participated actively in the various Program actions.
2.30     Health and Sanitation. Despite its importance in the context of
the Program, modest results were achieved, due mainly to political and
financial problems experienced by the implementing agency. Although it did
not meet expectations, significant benefits to the rural population were
obtained through: expanded and/or improved health services; improved
infrastructure in Health Centers; improved housing conditions; and
construction of ditches and water supply systems.
2.31     Rural Community Centers.  These were unsuccessful as originally
designed, since they were built without first consulting the communities
and also because of high construction costs. After restructuring, strategy
changes and linkage to the Community Development component, this component
was widely implemented. According to the new strategy, the community would
participate in the financing of the centers by contributing 4OZ of the
cost.
2.32     Community Development.  'Quality' and asupervisionn concerns
detracted from the project's positive and 'quantitatives achievements, due
to SETAS' financial, technical and administrative problems. Rural
Community Center Projects were approved and funds were released, but were
either not established or left unfinished. On the other hand, speedy
approval and review of funds would have enabled the executing agency to
obtain more positive results, despite structural and financial problems.
2.33     Executive Coordination.  Some of the difficulties encountered in
the initial phase of the Program's implementation included: delay in
approval of Annual Operation Plan, changes in resources for implementing
alencies, and lack of experience on the part of agencies and staff trained
to carry out the proposed work. The basic strategy for carrying out MG II
was confirmed in the Municipal Integrated Action Plans (PMAI), which wore
introduced in all local governments in the program area and which detail
and prioritize local problems, demands and alternative solutions. The
Program presented several innovative instruments such ast Pilot Community
Development Project, Municipal Community Action Groups, Community
Development Support Fund, and Municipal Integrated Action Plans, which
allowed the population to participate in drawing up Annual Operating Plans.
Unfortunately, with the closing of the Program, local government structures



- 24 -
have become dismantled, offices have been closed, and agency staff have
been transferred or dismissed. In short, in spite of the difficulties
which arose during the implementation of such a complex program, with such
an extensive geographical area, large number of components and inter-
institutional interaction, the program achieved positive results and gained
wide acceptance by beneficiaries, as evidenced by t:ieir regret that the
program had closed and by the great number of letters requesting that it be
continued.



- 25 -
PART III : IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS AND STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Ceara Second Rural Development Project
(Loan 1924-BR)
3.01     The implementation of the main components of this complex project
is outlined below. Achievement of targets is quantified in the attached
performance tables.
3.02     Rural Extension. The rural extension component is estimated to
have assisted 58,340 small farmers and their families, virtually reaching
the target of 60,000. However, the main aim of increasing productivity was
not achieved because of the drought years (1979/83), lack of seasonal
credit, and insufficient marketing credit (Compra Anticipada da Producto-
CAP). In addition, many of the extension service's technical messages
during the drought periods were inappropriate.
3.03     The efficiency of EMATER-CE was severely constrained by delays and
shortfalls in federal funding, low salaries, high staff turnover,
bureaucratic and political interference and coordination problems with
EPACE, the state agricultural research enterprise. During the drought
years, many of the extension personnel financed by the project devoted much
of their time to emergency activities not directly related to the project.
More ger-erally, resources assigned to meet operation costs of vehicles were
diverted to salaries, thus reducing the effectiveness of the service.
3.04     The extension service did, however, consolidate some of the
experiences gained in the first Ceara project (Loan 1488-BR). The
extension methodology was further developed and greater emphasis was placed
on working with groups of farmers. The project also strengthened the
farmers' participation in the annual planning of project activities, and
the development of small farmer groups to undertake such tasks as seed
production.
3.05     At US$24.15 million, the component cost was the largest among the
project components, equivalent to 282 of the total cost. The amount of the
loan actually disbursed, US$13.2 million, was about 282 greater than
anticipated in the SAR (see Tables 5 and 7). The ratio of farmers to
agricultural extensionist at 147 to 1, was, however, lower than the 180-220
to 1 expected in the SAR. This is largely due to political pressures
favoring the employment of extensionists in certain areas. In general, the
agricultural and social extensionists employed by the project were highly
motivated and competent professionals.
3.06     Agricultural Experimentation.  The objectives of the agricultural
research component were to reorient activities towards the needs of small
farm farming systems and crops and to provide high quality output for
propagation. All this was to be undertaken jointly by EMATER-CE and EPACE.
EPACE has managed to orient its activities towards small producers and to



- 26 -
involve farmers in the process of planning and formulating of research
activities. However, during the project the component was badly affected by
funding delays, the five-year drought, pests and disease. Poor coordination
between EMATER and EPACE resulted initially in inadequate planning of
research programs initially. Coordination between the two agencies improved
after 1984 as a result of the adoption of the regional directives used for
the preparation of the Northeast Rural Development Project.
3.07     Under the project, the Ceara Agricultural Research Company, EPACE
carried out experiments on a range of crops including: maize, beans,
manioc, sugarcane, bananas and a number of vegetables. The target of 150
additional experiments was exceeded by 73Z, although many were not
completed because of the drought and most (902) were carried out on
research stations. Only recently has there been an effort to test new
techniques on farmers' fields as had been anticipated at appraisal. Main
achievements reported are the release'of a new maize variety (Epamil 10)
and a new higher protein bean (Epace 10). In addition, new varieties of
sugarcane, manioc, carrot and garlic have been introduced. In the semi--arid
Sertao region, EPACE has built centers for the breeding and selection of
drought-tolerant sheep and goats, and in 1987 the first distribution to 18
farmers of drought-tolerant "Morada Nova" sheep took place, with
distributions to a further 60 families planned for 1989.
3.08     Certified seed production at 586 t, fell well short of the target
of 7,565 t suggested in the SAR. A principal reason for this was the
difficulty EMATER-CE had in coordinating the work of EPACE which was
responsible for producing basic seed, and OCEC which was responsible for
multiplying certified seed. A shortage of funds prevented the Ceara
Agricultural Development Company, CODAGRO, from buying up seed produced by
small farmers. In addition, inadequate technical advice was provided by
EMATER to small seed producers. Similarly, the production of 43,500
saplings fell far short of the target of 272,000 despite the establishment
of a new nursery.
3.09     The component cost by the end of the project was US$3.14 million,
161% higher than the US$1.95 million expected in the SAR .
3.10     Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Purchase. The
objective of this component was to promote access to definitive titles by
small farmers in order to give them incentives to invest and facilitate
their access to production services, particularly credit. The main
impediment to execution was a lack of political will to intervene
decisively in land matters. The State Land Institute, ITERCE, has proved
to be a weak executing agency and it was hampered by inadequate staffing
and lack of experience. It was reorganized at the end of the project and
replaced by a new Land Institute, FUNDA-CE. The Federal Land Institution,
INCRA, was very slow in redistributing land, arguing that most land offered
for sale is of poor quality or overpriced. The purchase of land was also
very slow because each case had to go through long procedures including
review by INCRA headquarters in Brasilia and a number of other lengthy
bureaucratic steps.



- 27 -
3.11     Little or no progress has been made in the rcgularization of
contracts for farmers who rent or have sharecropping arrangements. Contract
regularization has been opposed by these landless farmers, as they fear
that the introduction of written land lease contracts (in contrast with
present verbal contracts) will not be accepted by landowners for fear of
the tenant/sharecropper gaining rights of possession. Landowners continue
to prefer leasing land only to farmers who agree to verbal contracts.
3.12     Another important issue has been INCRA's inability to provide farm
infrastructure for the limited areas successfully acquired by landless
producers (parceleiros). Since they lacked adequate housing, access roads
and water storage dams, they were unable to immediately develop and
cultivate their individual plots. In 1985/86, the Bank, with SUDENE's
support and project management approval, therefore decided to reallocate
project funds from land purchase to infrastructure development on acquired
land.
3.13     By the end of the project, the component expenditure was US$5.86
million, 27% of the proposed cost in the SAR of US$ 21.96 million. Of this
about US$8.5 million was for land purchase whi-h was not subject to Bank
disbursement. The loan amount disbursed was US$3.3 million, 562 of the SAR
estimate of US$6.36 million. The number of hectares surveyed was 166,453
ha, 55X of the 300,000 ha target. Only 214 small farm families, 6X of the
target of 3,700 families, benefitted from land purchase. In contrast, some
11,700 small farm families received land titles, 179? of the SAR target of
6,550 families. This is a substantial achievement as titling operations
are often controversial because they are often constrained by unclear
physical demarcation and/or legal identification of ownership.
3.14     Agricultural Cooperative Society Development. The component
objectives were to develop greater financial and managerial self-
sufficiency in cooperatives as a mechanism for improving services to small
farmers. The four main actions were to: (a) prepare development plans for
12 of the 47 agricultural cooperatives in the state, (b) provide technical
and managerial assistance to the selected cooperatives, (c) establish seed
production among cooperative members, and (d) construct produce marketing
and input supply depots facilities. The implementation of this component
has been affected by conflicts between the cooperatives' members and local
influential individuals who set up the cooperatives and represented vested
political interests.
3.15     The development plans for the 12 cooperatives were not prepared.
The State Cooperative Society Organization (OCEC), the agency executing the
component, placed emphasis on providing assistance in the areas of general
and financial management, including accounting, but there were difficulties
in promoting the active participation of farmers in cooperative activities.
3.16     The original idea of constructing produce marketing and input
supply facilities in cooperatives was changed just after the project began,
when it was agreed that the cooperative shops would not be financed by the



- 28 -
project. Eventually, a total of 24 marketing posts were constructed,
mostly with the cooperatives' own financial resources.
3.17     On the positive side it can be said that small-scale farmers now
sit on the boards of some cooperatives. The services offered by
cooperatives to their members have improved and storage space for farm
products has increased 50? since 1980. Cooperatives have expanded their
marketing to include products such as maize, beans, rice, cassavw flour,
cocoa, cashew nuts and milk as well as cotton and OCEC has greatly improved
the quality of the advice it llow offers to all member cooperatives.
3.18     The amount of the loan actually disbursed was US$1.0 million, much
greater than the US$0.61 million suggested in the SAR. This cost overrun is
largely due to the project paying sixty-eight OCEC staff salaries, rather
than the 12 suggested by the SAR. In addition, technical and managerial
assistance was extended to 20 cooperatives instead of the 12 originally
planned.
3.19     Education and Vocational Training. The targets for this component
were attained or surpassed for the construction and equipping of new
schools (131 or 119Z), the remodelling and equipping of existing schools
(1,012 or 2242), the construction and equipping of offices for the Regional
Directorates of Education (3 or 150Z) and the equipping of canteens in
existing schools (380 or 100Z). With regard to the construction of regional
education centers (CERU) and remodelling of agricultural schools, the final
targets have not been met (14 or 82? and 2 or 67?, respectively).
3.20     The final project target for the training of supervisors was met
(141 or 1282) and also the upgrading of 3,000 teachers (3,298 or 110?).
However, there were problems with upgrading courses for rural primary
school teachers due to inadequate and irregular provision of funds. Delays
in the provision of fellowship resources for students attending courses,
inadequate allocation of resources for students' fellowships, and the
accelerated and intensive nature of the courses resulted in high drop out
and failure rates.
3.21     The major non-formal adult education training programs were
carried out by FUNCESE and CEAG and were addressed to artisans and workers
in small-scale non-agricultural enterprises. The 15,200 persons trained
exceeded the target of 11,000 by some 38?.
3.22     The amount of the loan actually disbursed for the component by the
end of the project was US$3.35 million, 20? higher than the amount of
US$2.79 million suggested in the SAR, while the actual total cost was
US$6.16 million, or only 88X of the amount estimated in the SAR, US$6.98
million. The shortage of adequate counterpart funding resulted in a greater
use of loan funds than anticipated in the SAR. A further issue has been low
salaries of teachers; the consequences of which have been generally poor
quality teachers, high absenteeism and reduced interest from teachers
or students.



- 29 -
3.23     Health and Sanitation. The objectives of the component were to
provide a low-cost health delivery system for all direct project
beneficiaries and for about 302 of the remaining rural population. Local
health posts were to bc staffed by trained health attendants focussing on
pre-natal care, vaccinations, health and nutrition education, and selected
curative treatments. The health subcomponent did not fully attain its
final targets for the health posts constructed (69 or 35Z), the health
centers constructed (1 or 332), the health posts repaired (60 or 752) or
for trained rural health attendants (273 or 552). The only target attained
was for the health centers repaired (34 or 117Z). The sanitation
subcomponent did not fully attain any of its targets: water supply systems
installed (51 or 512), families benefitting from water supply systems
(8,964 or 72) and latrines installed (8,665 or 62Z).
3.24     The mixed performance of the component can largely be attributed
to the State Secretariat of Health (SES), which suffered from problems in
administration, management and technical coordination. Intense political
interference in daily activities and in the nomination of new staff
exacerbated these problems and resulted in an excessive increase in central
staff numbers. Other problems were caused by low salaries and a shortage of
medical supplies.
3.25     Despite the shortfalls of construction under the project, the
State of Ceara is now judged to have an adequate number of both health
posts and cointers. However, the state still dots not have the resources to
staff or equip the health posts properly. There were delays in releasing
resources for the construction of water supply systems but the main cause
of the shortfall was the bureaucracy involved in contracting drilling
services for the construction of wells and the large number of drilled
wells with no water outflow. In addition, little was done to secure
maintenance services for the systems in spite of supervision mission's
recommendations.
3.26     Only US$2.07 million or 402 was actually disbursed of the amount
of the loan suggested in the SAR, US$5.16 million.  The actual expenditure
for the component was US$3.40 million or only 272 of the level proposed in
the SAR (US$12.65 million).
3.27     Feeder and Access Roads. Only 1,372 km, or 612, of the target for
the improvement of existing roads was attained. The shortfall is largely
due to late remittances of federal funds and high inflation that decreased
the value of the funds by the time they were received. This resulted in
the accumulation of cost overruns, with money owed to contractors
eventually being paid from the following years funds. The quality of road
construction was not satisfactory in part because of inadequate supervision
of contractors' work by the Ceara Highway Department, DAER-CE. In
addition, DAER-CE often upgraded the roads from the 4 meter platformed base
road agreed for the project (Class F), to a 6 meter platformed base road
(Class E or D) without making the required justification study of col'-ctor
road needs, called for under the project design.
3.28     Farmers did not participate in the selection of roads to be
constructed or repaired.  In some cases it was found out that DAER-CE was



- 30 _
not using funds that were received for road construction, and due to
political interference, works were not always implemented as planned. In
the last years of the project implementation performance's is reported to
have improved.
3.29     The actual cost of the component was US$20.93 million or 642 of
the level suggested in the SAR, US$32.86 million. The amount of the loan
actually disbursed was US$11.98 million, or 912 of the of amount US$13.14
million estimated in the SAR.
3.30     Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes. The project originally aimed at
introduc.ng and fostering improved irrigation, and included financing of
studies and technical assistance for some 83 small supplementary irrigation
schemes. Irrigation development received insufficient attention in the
project's original design; resources allocated to the component have been
minimal and the division of responsibility between agencies for planning
and executing irrigation schemes was not well defined. The component had
to be reformulated four times during implementation. The main problems
resulted from the lack of technical and institutional expertise within the
state, as well as the lack of finance and the land tenure structure. Banks
were reluctant to finance the group credit necessary for the construction
of common irrigation works.
3.31     The component eventually attained the final target of 98 new
irrigation schemes or 118Z, but it only involved 675 or 602 of the intended
number of farmer benefic'iaries. The actual cost of the component at the
end of the project was US$1.60 million, 191 higher than in the SAR estimate
of US$1.34 million, while the amount of the loan actually disbursed was
US$0.88 million or 652 higher than in the SAR (US$0.55 million).
3.32     Marketing Activities.  The aim of the project was to include, in
addition to the district-level marketing posts in cooperatives, the
strengthening of an existing crop purchase program (Compra Anticipada da
Producao-CAP), the expansion of the produce classification system and the
improvement of the basic foodstuffs and consumer goods distribution system
in rural areas. The actual operational mechanism did not work well.
Payments made by the scheme were typically too low and late, inter-
institutional arrangements between EMATER-CE, CODAGRO (Ceara Agricultural
Development Company) and COBAL, the Brazilian Food Company, were not clear-
cut and .he institutions had efficiency problems of their own.
3.33     The component did not attain its final target for classification
posts or cente-;s, either new (5 or 56X), or rehabilitated (3 or 10Z). By
the end of 1984 about 27,000 farmers had been assisted and the following
products had been classified: cotton, beans, rice, cashew nuts, coconuts,
corn, black pepper and garlic. However, it has been the processing
companies and cooperatives that have been the main beneficiaries, rather
than the small farmer.
3.34     The objective of improving the basic foodstuffs and consumer goods
distribution system in rural areas was not attained because there was no
mechanism to provide credit to the retailers of basic consumer goods. The



- 31 -
marketing of small farmers' agricultural produce continued to be a problem
and the alternatives that were attempted under the project did not succeed.
3.35     The actual costs of the component were US$4.74 million, 96Z higher
than estimated in the SAR, while the amount of the loan actually disbursed
was USS1.19 million, 24Z higher than estimated at appraisal.
3.36     Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises. The aim of this
component was to support the development of about 1,100 small-scale
enterprises performing a variety of activities in the secondary and
tertiary sectors, such as carpentry, tailoring, retail sales, and
electrical work. There is a consensus that this component has been a great
success. By the end of 1985, the project had assisted 1,765 small
entrepreneurs, or 160Z of the initial target, and the Center for Assistance
to Small and Medium Enterprises in Ceara (CEAG-CE), that previously
operated only in the metropolitan area, had extended its activities to
rural areas.
3.37     CEAG-CE's training of both staff and entrepreneurs has also met
with success, partly because of the ability it has shown in getting other
specialized institutions to collaborate with training, and to adapt to
changing conditions. The initial trend of working with individuals was
changed to working with groups.
3.38     The actual costs of the component were US$0.78 million or 58Z of
the proposal in the SAR (US$1.35), while the amount of the loan actually
disbursed was US$0.42 million or 80% of the SAR estimate.
3.39     Project Coordination and Management. The PCMU improved its
monitoring activities over the project period, but it should have adopted a
less complicated, more management-oriented information system to assist in
taking decisions. The actual costs of the component were US$13.68 million,
252 higher than the figure suggested in the SAR (US$10.90 million). The
total amount of the loan actually disbursed was US$8.85, almost twice the
amount of US$4.3 estimated at appraisal. The overun is due largely to the
two year extension of the project and the high staff costs. At appraisal
it was estimated that by the fifth year of project implemertation PCMU
staff would total 65 technicians in addition to administrative support
personnel. By end-1984, the project was paying for 104 technicians and 43
support personnel; CEPA-CE had a total of 163 technicians and 127 support
personnel.



- 32 -
Table 1
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-OR)
Related Bank Loans
Title            Purpose              Year of          Status        Comae nts
Approval
Ceara R.D.P.    To raise production          1977          Compl ed        Project mad  progress in
(Ln 1488 OR)    of traditional crops,                                     meeting objectives and
income and living                                         raising living standards
standards of small farm                                   although crop yield and
families in the Ibiapaba                                  area increases were modest
region, through Improving                                 (smm PPAM No. 7910 of
support services and                                      June 20, 1989)
infrastructure
Northeast       Loan of US$122.0 m, to       1986          to be          Part of the Program
Rural           increase agricultural                      completed in  Apolo Pequeno Produtor
Development     production and produc-                     199.            (PAPP) of tho new
Project (VI)    tivity throughout the                                      Northeast Rural
Ceara           Stat., with special                                       Development Program.
(Ln 2736-OR)    emphasis on water                                         Follow up to Loan 1924-R.
resources.
Ps



- 33 -
Table 2
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-BR)
Proiect Timetable
Item                      Date Planned                Actual Date
Identification Projectl/                                   Nov. 78 & Apr. 79
Preparation2i                                              June-Oct. 1979
Pre-Appraisal                     December 1979            December 1979
Appraisal Mission                 February 1980            February 1980
Loan Negotiations                 September 1980           Septenmber 1980
Board Approval                    December 1980            December 2, 1980
Loan Signature                                             January 14, 1981
Loan Effectiveness                                         July 7, 1981
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1985        December 31, 1987
Loan Completion                   June 30. 1985            March 1988
t/ Two identification misisons visited Ceara in November 1978 and April
1979.
2/ Three preparation missions visited Cearat June 1979 (two weeks);
Aug./Sept. 1979 (three weeks); and October 1979 (two weeks).



Table 3
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Fiscal Year                1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
Appraisal Estimate              3.5      13.5      26.3      39.9      52.9      56.0
Actual                           -        3.5      13.0      24.2      35.2      44.8      47.1      48.2
Actual as Z of Estimate         0.0      26.0      49.0      61.0      67.0      80.0      84.0      86.0
Date of Final Disbursement    12116188
________________________
Notes US$2.0 million cancelled in 1987; 5.8 to be cancelled.
Source: IBRD Records.



- 35 -
Table 4
Page 1 of a
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-BR)
ProJoct Imoleentatlon: Koy Pertomance Indletors
Aseroisal    Cumulative         X of
Tarnoet       Achieved       Appraisal
(12/81/87)      Targets
1. Rural Extension
- Number of farmrs reached                               CO,WO           68,341         97 (1)
-  Number of agricultural *xtenslon agents
(superior and medium level)                              881            397        120 (2)
-  Number of social extension agents                        186             160         96 (2)
-  Number of demonstration plots                              -           8,491        (1) (2)
-  Totai area assisted (bh)                                             15,670             (1)
-  Number of animals attonded                                           118,476            (1)
-  Local extension offices                                   S1
2. AurIcultural Research
-  Number of experimnts underway                            1S0             260        178 (2)
-  Certified seeds produced (t)                           7,65              Su6         8S (2)
-  Number of saplings produced                          272,000          48,560         16 (2)
-  Tot l hetares under sed  production                        -             286            (2)
8. Land Cadastral Suevoys. Tltlina and Purchase
-  Number of hectrs surveyed                            800,000         180,76          44 (3)
-  Number of small farmr families benefitting from:
- Land purchase                                     8,700            214           6 (3)
- Land title                                        6,55O          11,709        179 (3)
4. Agricultural Cooperative Society Developmnt
-  Number of cooperatives surveyed                           12              14    117 (1) (4)
-  Number of activo farm members In participating
cooperatives                                               -         42,521             (2)
-  Number of marketing post. functioning                     20              24        120 (5)
- Number of producs marketed through assisted
cooperatives (t)                                           -         49,462             (2)



- 36 -
Pog 2 of I
6.EducaHlon rnd Voa tlonal Tr inina
-  Number of uloverooms rode tled                           40           1,611        395 (6)
eonstructd or equipped             Us             a ll        U1  (6)
- Number of rura l education centers (CPUS'.)                IT              14     a2 (1) (2)
- Constructlon/equIpping of regional *ducateon
centers (OuES)                                                                      i *  *4(6)
- Remodellng/equipplag of gorliulturel sehoolJ                                          or 0()
-  Equlppino of contee n                                                     1 SO 1        tO(6)
-  Textbooks for students                                1l1se U1l,611                 240 (6)
-  StudntOo Ilt SIUt,w                                         O        33,4H          164 (2)
-  Teachers$ guldes                                       4,0             4,15H        164 (0)
-  Nits for teachors                                     seem             5,406         as (6)
- Number of teachers trailned                             $Om             $,m          lie (6)
- Number of supervisors trained                             U11             141        181 (a)
- Numbr of ertivno  traineds CA Program                       -           1,657            (0)
UNCgSu  Program                -         1,17               (
6.   eath
-  Number of rural health posts built                        10t             6          8s (2)
-  Number of health center constructed                                                  88 (2)
-  Number of health opt  replsrd                             of              H          75 t2)
-  Number of health  enters repaired                         tO              84        i1  (2)
- Number of trained rural health attnend                                     7          55 (2)
-  Number of trained  ldwlve                                 IN               -              -
7. Sanitation
- Number of woter supply systms Innstlled                                               $1 (2)
-  Totol no. of familes blftting from water
supply systems                                       1                 6,4            7 (2)
- Number of ltrines installed                            14pM             $S6           62 (2)
-  Number of filters insalled                                 e                            (2)
S. Feder and Access Roodn
-  Number of km of existing roads Improved                 ,2W2           10,S7         61 (2)
. Small-Scale Irrialstgn Schmes
-  Number of ne  irrigation scheme  built                    08              33        11s (2)
- Total no. of mel farmers bfleitting from
new schemes (fe.)                                      1,120             671         6o (2)
-  Are  irrigotd by nmw schmes (he)                       2,0              M63          20 (2)
- Average are  irrigatedd/family (he)                    I to 8             .75            (2)



- 37 -
Table 4
Page 8 of a
10. Marketing Activitlie
-  Numer of farmrs receiving CAP                             -           9,0U             (2)
- X of landles farmrs song reciplents                        -                            (2)
-  Total numbr of new clasaification posta or centers        9               6             M (2)
-  Total _   of rehbilitated classlflcation p%ost or
centers                                                                             is 8   M(2)
11. Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Entererlees
-  Number of enterprses assisted                         1,1W0           1,766        10 (2)
- Number of rural enterprise extension agents trained
12. ProJect Coordination and Management Monitoring.
Evaluation and Studies
- Number of technicians paid by proJect                     e6         cn. lg 230
(1)  Source: CEPA-CE, Fortalsi, January 1989, Figures refer to 1988/6J  and 19#7/8.
(2) Source: CEPA-CE, Forteleza, January 1989, Flgures rofer to 1980/61-1986/66.
(3) Source: CEPA-CE, Relatorlo Flnal de Avaliacao do Desmpenho Fielco-Financeiro do Projeto do
Projeto do Deenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Ceara-PORI Coara 11-Contrato 1924-R.
(4) Source: Supervision report, Field mission, February 1986 (Flnal Report dates May 1, 1966).
(6) Source: Supervision report, Filed milsion, Feb. 1986 (Final report date : may 1983).
(6) Source: Final supervisloa report, Ceara II Rural Development project, Education Component,
Office Meorandum, 10/29/86.



- 38 -
Tablo t
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
CEARA SECUQ RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1924-R)
PROJECT COWMETIOW RUEPR
Prolect Cos and Financina
A. PROJECT COSTS (1)
S. A. R.
Local         Foreign         Total         Actual        Aetunl
Costa      Appraisal
-----------------USSm*illion-----                     -   --------(N)
1. Asricultural Services
1.1  Rural Extenslon                   22.66           8.609         25.75           24.16           94
1.2  Agric. *xperiment.                 1.76           0.19           1.94            8.14          161
1.8  Land edastral uurvey&!/          20.56            1.86          21.96           5.86            27
1.4  Cooperative Society Dev.           1.84           0.16           1.49            2.89          155
Sub-total                              48.8W           4.81          61.14           86.46
2. Sociel Infraatructure
2.1  Edue. A Vocational Training        5.98           1.65           6.98           6.16            88
2.2  Health A Sanitation                9.49           8.16          12.65            8.40           27
15.42           4.21          19.68           9.60
8. Physical Infrastructure
8.1  Feeder and acc* s  road           22.02          10.64          82.66           20.9.           64
8.2  Small-sele Irrigation sheme    1.21               0.18           1.34            1.00          119
8.6  Mktg A Storage facillties          1.98           0.46           2.41            4.74          196
Sub-total                              26.16          11.40           6.61           27.27
4. Small-Scale Non-Agricultural
Enterprisex                             1.19           0.16           1.85           0.78            S8
5.  Coordination. MNnarDont & Studies       9.61           1.69          16.90           18.6           126
6.  Baseline Costa                         97.92          21.78         119.06
7. Continmencies
7.1  Physical                           .868           1.895      . 10.65
7.2  Price                             27.07           5.948         88.02
Sub-total                              86.70           7.981         48.55
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   188.02          29.609        168.19           66.78           6a
(1)  Excluding credit for agricultural developmnt and smll-scale non-agricultural nterprises.
(2)  Cost of state purchaes of land for redisterbution to *smll famers are counted as a
'project cost' but were not *ligible for Bank disbursoments.



-39-                              Table 6
Page 2 of 2
B.  PROJECT FTNA1CNCD
Source                   Planned        Revised         Final        Revised/                    -
Final
--USS ml lI on-----   (X)
IBRD          Local                  8U.4            n.d.            n.d.
For-ign                 19.6           n.d.           n.d.
Sub-total               56.0           54.0           48.2             89
IFAD          Local                   15.6           16.0
Foreign                 10.0           10.0
Sub-total               26.6           25.0           16.5          66 (1)
Governaont    Local                   82.2           n.d.            22.0            27
T O T O   L                           168.2                         U6.7             S8
(1) According to Inforation supplied by CEPA-CE USS1.5 million had been disbursed. According
to IFAD, however, 8X or US820.0 million had been disbursed by end February 1989.
Sources: CEPA-CE World Sank Supervision Retort. July 20. 1987 and IFAD ProJect Controller.
C.      _LEE
Catepory             1981-982  1982-88   1908-84   1984-85   1985-88   19866-7   1987-8    Total
Rural extension                 2,948     8,721     2,461      8,010     4,89B     4,888     2,287    24,161
Agricultural experimentation      445       620       415        804       674       628       155     8,141
CadaOtral and land surveys
Land titling and purchas        227       892       90D     1,055      1,276       586       921     5,857
Cooperative development           471       s68       891       244        240       286       101     2,890
Education and vocational
training                      1,277       785     1,805      1,101     1,448       191        01     6,168
Health and *shatation             652       426       641        694       617       256       124     8,404
Feeder and acces roads            981     4,406     8,565      %7C7      4,764     2,841     1,616    20,927
Small-scale irrigation systom      27       112       188        408       565       269        85     1,599
Marketing activitie             2,129     1,128       490        222       597       255         9    4,735
Small-scale non-agricultural
enterprises                    1i8        115        93        168       120       177        61       777
Project coordination and
management                    1.887     2.716     1.744      1.741     2.402     2.4eo       74    18.678
T 0 T A L                  11,697    15,488    12,198    11,684    17,604    12,695      6,124    88,780
Source: Costs are froe CEPA-CE.



-.40 -                                    Table S
ERAZIL
CEARA SECOY' U',RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-ZLo.n 1924-R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Bank Resoures
A. Staff Inputs (sta ftweeks)
Fiscal    Identification and              AD olgal and              Supervision
Year          Preparation                NeatUitiona
1978              O.1
1979             48.6                        201.1
1980
1981                                                                 8w.6
1982                                                                  12.8
1988                                                                  22.7
1984                                                                  14.2
1985                                                                  12.6
1980                                                                  18.6
1987                                                                  15.9
1988                                                                   8.4
T 0 T A L          48.6                        201.1                    lao..                  875.8
8. Mission*
item          Date    Number        _IDn   Seciallzation    Performance   Trend           T
EoLYr    7            Tild                          RatinOf ot                     oleo
persons      (2)            (2)             =3(4)  (--S)
Reconnaisance      11/78       2           1s
Identification      5/79       8           84
Preparation 1       7/79       8           42
Preparation 2       8/79       9          154
Preparation S      10/79       8          120
Preappralsal       12/79      12          240
Appraisal           2/80       9          180
Supervision         4/81       8           21          * c d              1           2          U
Supervision         8/81       1            8           a -
Supervision        10/81       2           24           a *               2           a         u F
Supervision        10/82       4           48         *c *                2           2        F M P
Supervision         4/88       4           28          a * g              2           2        P U F
Supervision        11/e8       1           12           a b               2           2         F T
Supervision         6/84       1            8            t             (Educ)
Supervision         6/84       1          1.5            b
Reformulation       9/84    n.d.            4            a
Supervision        11/84    n.d.         n.d.                         (Ho  Ith)
Supervision        10/84    n.d.         n.d.                          (Roads)
Supervision        12/84    n.d.         n.d.
Supervision         1/86       1           17            b                2           2
SupervisIon (6    11/86        8           14            h
SupervisIon (7      0/88       2           5e            h                2           2
Supervision (7    1180        8           18            h                2           2
Supervlslon (8      8/87    n.d.         n.d.            h                2           2
SupervisIon        11/87       4           46          h * g              2           2
Supervision         6/88       2         m.d.           h *               2           2
(1) Staff days
(2)  aaagriculturist; buagricultural economlet; cahoelth specialist; d.water  nginer;
eirri gation engineer; futducation specialist; guroad enginoer; h  inanca n    analyst.
(a)  l  probIse free or minor problems; UmWodrate problms; 8S major problems.
(4) luimproving; 2a Uttionary; cdsterioratIng.
(5) Fafinancial; U=manag.riai; Papolitical; O=other; Tutechnicel.
(6) Reallocation of loan funds.
(7)  Loan extension.
(8)  Cancellation of USt2.0 million.



- 41 -
Tabl? 7
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 1924-R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Actual
Original       Revisd         Aount        Disbursed/
Category                    Loan           Lean         Actually    Actual Amount
Allocation    Allocation      Dlsbursed      Allocated
---US'S-                          (U)
Rural Extension                    19,810         18,859         18,172              99
Agricultural Experimntatton           780          1,970          1,868              70
Cadastral and land surveys
Land titling and purchase         6,855          6,875          8,88               56
Cooperative development               a6n            065            0SS             1we
Educational and vocational
training                         2,790          8,420          8,851              98
Health and sanitatlon               6,160          8,120          2,068              6s
Feeer and acces  road              18,140         18,780         11,9.6              87
Small-scale irrigation syste          648      S      40            914              97
Marketing activities                  98           1,2W0          1,194              96
Smal-scalle non-agricultural
enterprise                          S8             460            420              91
Proj et coordination and
mangemet                          4,880          6,089          8,858              99
Unallocated                        10.525                           181
T O T A L                       S8,00          54,019         48,185              80
Soure: IBRD Records.



- 42 -
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~abe    s  R
SeeA   m  RIRL 88V0.DWf PQU4=
(La*n 1924-)
PRG:r COQWrMGN REPAR
Ratifal I Data* 1274-lfll
Sefm de
BLU    Ou;xamble   ,ots  do   SrtsAves
w         Lttoral    blcabss    Btus       Jaulha      a* Hdlo    InhSUns* a     ru                forth
-Aver*" for RIbC a---g-
1074       1,936.7    2,S.1    1,6I6.1    1,12S.4    1,299.0         1,215.4    1.4S7.0  l,8S5.0    1,544.8
1975       1,198.4    1,296.2    1,198.0    1,081.4      870.4        931.0      950.8    985.6    1,074.8
1976         947.6    1,001.0      654.0      a8.?       480.0        601.5      702.7    668.8      747.8
1977       1,217.7    1,88.?     1,86.7    1,044.7       814.8        852.8      925.6  1,088.1    1.068.0
17          989.4    1,018.8      907.0      767.8      692.8        881.1     M87.3    918.7       886.5
1979        721.6       788.2      767.9      8S.0       841.0        618.8      872.4    8a9.6      672.2
198         762.9       90.8       960.6      680.0      672.9        7W8.6      627.4    904.6      789.8
1981        68.7       a844.9      804.5      561.8      6a9.2        680.8     887.4    607.S       677.6
1992       8s2.0        9o0.1    1.009.6       18.8      652.8        894.8      644.8    589.6      7W8.4
1983        424.8       825.4      62.9       819.8      857.2        417.7     290.7    477.8       429.1
1984       1,848.2    1,847.4    1,848.4    1.042.0    l,08.8         79.7   1,029.7       82.8    1,182.8
1988       2,928.5    2,800.0    1,86.8    1,772.0    1,870.0        1,570.6    1,804.8   1,608.0    1,644.0
19s6       1,698.7    1,106.8    1,411.8    1,C06.1    1,080.8       1,066.7   2,018.0   1,614.9    1,427.8
low       1,725.7      661.9      97.?    1,276.7       867.8       1,456.6   1,428.1  1,480.1    1,918.4
Souraet F MPE.



Table e
43  -2Pass 1 OR                                                                    a
CER   80 i                  FRea
Productlo  of Main Crm. In the Pralact Area,
.................    ............................  .......      .     ..............  ............................................... .........................................
-   --1 e 7 e-                                                               --         a e 0 -
A r a a       Yields Production                                       A r ea         Yield- Production
Crop                 '000 ha        S      t/ha   '000 tow            Crop                  '000 ha       S      the   '000 tons
......................................................                 ..........................................................................................................
Tr.. Cotton           952.16       47.4      0.18   125.17             Tr"  Cotton         1,048.26      49.8       0.11   114.97
Annual Cotton          52.18        2.6      0.22    11.20            Amual Cotton            45.94        2.2     0.22       9.9
Corn                  a24. ss      16.1      0.44   142.26            Corn                   887.58       16.1     0.26    86.08
uane                  278.56       18.9      0.82    81.77           BSen                    285.74       18.6     0.16    44.84
ManIoc                168.97        8.2      7.12 1,168.24              iolc                 145.48        6.9      7.09 1,061f.t
RI a                   42.86        2.1      1.15    46.76             RICO                   23.86        1.1      0.74    17.69
Sugaroma               40.88        2.5    82.25 1,m.78               sugarcane               40.22        2.4    28.75 1,267.65
To-!toa                 0.71        o.0    88.45    21.62              Tint..                  0.98        0.0    24.98    2.21.
baa,.                   3.51        1.7      1.86     83.02            Bn a                   84.42        1.6      1.22    42.15
Orano"  !i               1.49       0.1    01.40   1U.26               Orane.                  1.87       0.1    75.28   106.18
Coconut.               20.27        1.0      8.01   101.62            Coconut                 00.78        1.0      5.56   115.24
camhi. Nute            07.18        4.6    41.67 5,682.55             Cahes uNtJ             180.67        4.8    86.97 S,791.68
Ha ng                   8.86        0.2    66.63   81.18                ang. J                 8.86        0.2    82.26   819.16
Papaya                  0.10        0.0    19.60       1." Oap y                               0.10        n.o0    16.8       1.68
Lemn                    0.24        0.0   166.46    40.48              Loma J                  0.25       0.0   182.84    45.71
lTOAL AF         2,010.82    100.0                                     TOrAL AREA      2,098.s6  i00.0
......................................................                 ............................................................................. ...........................
......................................................                 ............................................................................. ...........................
1981-                                                            -1982-
A r * a       Yields Prduction                                        A r * a        YTilda Production
Crop                 '000 ha        S     SJhc   'O00 to               Crop                 '000 ha        S     t/ha   '000 to
......................................................                 ............................................................................. ...........................
Tr.e Ctton            824.68       66.4      0.09    78.82             Tr"e Cotton           882.84       87.8      0.14   11.1is
Annual Cotton          51.88        8.5      0.28    11.74             Auwal Cotton          115.79        5.8      0.42    49.07
Corn                   97.49        6.7      0.18    17.S8             Corn                  409.66       18.6      0.29   118.65
Bean                  160.80       11.0      0.19    80.54             _eans                 482.20      21.9       0.27   182.88
Manloc                 98.70        6.4      8.09   71.6S8              Nnice                 70.48       8.2       7.70   S42.44
RI.         ,          14.59        1.0      2.07    80.16             Rice                   54.80        2.5      1.52    66.98
Sugarcane              51.08        8.5    80.71 1,68.59               Sugare.               50.78        2.8    42.65 2,168.77
Tomatoes                 0.71       0.0    80.25    21.48              Tomtoa                   1.03       0.0    24.19    24.92
anana 59               98.80        1.9      1.02    88.83            _aan  59               28.04        1.8      1.85    87.88
Orang" 59                1.08       0.1    U1.82    5.48               Oran      J             1.S4       0.1    99.02   182.49
Coconut                21.52        1.5      4.05    85.68            Cocout.                 19.48        0.9      5.00    97.18
Cahd     Nt 5N        112.66        7.7    48.80 4,678.27              Cam    Mut. 5         110.0         5.9    aO.17 6,562.60
Mango 59                8.67        0.8    tTO.55   81.72             Hango J                  8.82        0.2    77.16   294.76
apaa                    0.07        0.0    15.71       O.9             Papa   J                0.0         0.0    16.80       O.99
Lmn  5&                  0.25       0.0   184.80      48.02            Lassn   5               0.25       0.0   196.58    49.88
TOTAL AM         1,461.80    10.0                                      TOTAL AREA       2,200.92    100.0
......................................................                 ............................................................................. ...........................



-44-pt 2o 
o a a----                                      -o 8 4-
A  . *a     Yield. Production                                A r a a      Yield. Production
Crop              '080 he      %    t/ha  '0C0 to"           Cop                '000 ha     U    tha    '= tone
......................................................       .......................................................... ..............................................
Tree Cotton        889.57     48.0    0.07    41.74          Tree Cotton         488.68    25.1    0.19   88.81
Amnal Cotton        71.05       .7    0.24    16.07          Annuel Cotton       254.89    14.0    0.67   171.69
Corn               158.44     10.7    0.18    16.9           Corn                817.78    17.5    0.60   U  87                                I
Deane              186.41     12.4    0.15   28.64           Sana                870.00    20 4    0.86   181.40
Manic               78.60      6.2    5.40  *24.61           fanoc                66.9w     4.8    9.29   807.98
puce                16.11      1.8    1.84   29.67          RPic                  88.92     2.1    2.08    00.96
Shugarcane           8.68      4.2   80.98 1,659.28            a..7 44.57                   2.8   48.04 1,918.&U
Totoss               1.17      0.1   98.78    07.79          Tait..                1.82     0.1   81.12   41.08
Banan !/            28.95      2.8    0.91   26.84           Ban   J             28.91      1.6    1.49   48.22
Orang"  A/           1.76      0.t   48.06   88.54           Ora'gea 8             1.84     0.1   62.9w   115.82
ca_nut.             19.86      1.8    8. 0    60.25          Coconuts             18.17     1.0    s.06   91.95
Caheew Xtt 5       1 .78      10.1   15.96 2,038.52          C"h.. Ite 5.        194.45    10.7   40.87 7,849.2s
P"ones 5/            8.69      0.8   62.80  280.82           Mango J               8.81     0.2   60.86  200.48
Papaya 9             0.04      0.0   14.00    0.65           Papay                 0.06     0.0   19.17      1. S
Lamn 5               0.2       0.0  182.44   49.26           Lam J                 0.47     0.0  210.99   9.15
TurAL AsA   1,264.61    100.0                                TOTAL ARA      1,81s.0?    180.0
......................................................       ............................................................................. ...........................
........................................................................................... .....  ......  ......................................................
1 8 5--                                   -                  9 8 6--
A  e a      Yield. Production                                A r a a      Yields Production
Crop       '        00 ha      S    t/ha  '000 tone          Crop               '000 ha     U    tShe  '08  tone
. . .. .. .. ... ....... ..... .................            ..... .... ....... ....... ... .. .
Tree Cotton        829.94    19.5    0.16   81.16            Tree Cotton         2s8.29     16.0    0.07   20.49
Annual Cotton      282.92    16.7    0.a8   106.82           Annual Cotton       818.12    16.4    0.19    6.e97
Corn               881.00  2;.8    0.40   144.89             Corn                410.78    21.4    0.84  222.54
_ean               290.74     17.2    0.2    68.1u           Ben                899.05    20.6    0.24   96.60
Mnloc               89.82      5.8    8.06  718.70           Mnilec              116.71     6.1    9.00 1,060.20
RICe                85.28      2.1    2.47   67.08           RIc                 568.90     8.1    2.s8   149.01
Sugarcane           42.87      2.5   42.76 1,S1.77           Sugarcane            82.85     2.8   42.81 2,286.0s
Tote                 1.06      0.1   29.68   81.44           Tecatoe               1.49     0.1   28.05   41.80
Bana  5.            27.86      1.6    1.48   89.74           Banana 5,           81.86      1.6    0.91   28.61
Orange. /            1.62      0.1   81.78    83.88          Orange 5,             1.42     0.1   81.89   87.88
Cosndut             20.69      1.2    5.02   108.81          Coconuts            92.21      1.2    8.84   78.58
Coah_wt Nutc       206.83     12.8   81.67 6,598.15          Caa, Nute J        217.98     11.4    1.89 2,890.82
mng. J/              2.17      0.1   86.70   128.04          Mango J               1.98     0.1   82.51   101.85
Pepaba5,             0.89      0.0   19.22      1.78         Papa.,J               0.10     0.0   19.C0    1.98
L.mn 5,              0.47      0.0  224.6   105.45           Laon 9/              0.47      0.0  227.1   106.74
TOTAL AUA     1,66.8    140.0                                TOTAL AtA    1,918.81   100.0
......................................................       ............................................................................. ...........................



- 45 -
Table 9
page 8 of S
......................................................
_ __ _ __-----19 6 7------
A r a a     Yields Production
Crop               000 h      Si   t/he   '000 tons
Tree Cotton        181.05    14.9    0.09    17.06
Annual Cotton       27.S0     2.3    0.20    5.47
Corn               236.85    19.5    0.30   70.28
8eane              270.02    22.2    0.16   44.11
Manioc             108.18     8.9    8.69   983.09
RICe                50.01     4.1    2.24   111.82
Sugarcane           53.40     4.6   42.29 2,343.08
ToMtoes              1.27     0.1   28.37   32.22
Banana!/            33.90     2.8    1.01   84.07
Oranges 8J           1.61     0.1   54.27   67.88
Coconut.            28.87     1.9    4.46   105.65
Ceehe. Nuts J      222.89    18.8   21.80 4,804.60
Mango 5              1.62     0.1   54.70   88.62
papaya 2/            0.12     0.0   20.88    2.44
Lemon               0.50     0.0  226.92   118.46
TOTAL AD6h    1,218.9S   100.0
............ ...............
It includee the total state area (14,8 million ha), oxcluding part of the 3.4 millIon ha, that io used motly for grazing.
the *Sertoa Cesrenaes*.
I Yield. and production for banana are In acachose. I cceho * 50 fruits.
Yields end producton are in 1,000 fruits.
SIUICE: I8E (Instituto Breaileiro do Ooograla . Estedaitic.).



- 46 -
B. Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project
tLoan 1877-BR)
3.41     A summary of the implementation achievements and constraints
experienced for the major components is presented below. The reformulation
of the project in 1986 and the substantial reduction in the size of the
loan from US$63.00 to US$30.0 million has complicated the analysis of
implementation efficiency as it has not been possible to determine the
revised physical targets for the performance indicators. In this
circumstance, actual achievements have been compared with the original
performance indicator targets to indicate which component targets at
appraisal were the most realistic and which were over-optimistic.
Agricultural Credit
3.42     Investment Credit. The aim of the project was to finance medium-
and long-term credit for the establishment of permanent crops, improvements
in on-farm installations, pasture improvements, livestock purchases,
reforestation, and land reclamation for about 30,000 beneficiaries
(including about 3,000 landless farmers). In fact the project only assisted
2,500 farmers with investment credit (5Z of the SAR target). This is
attributed to the removal of interest subsidies (partial monetary
correction was introduced in 1982, and full monetary correction plus 3Z
interest was introduced in 1983), and a collapse in demand for credit.
3.43     Institutional rural credit from non-project sources was almost
unavailable to project beneficiaries in the state of Minas Gerais and only
502 of the project-assisted municipalities had access to local bank
agencies.
3.44     In 1984, US$1.0 million in loan funds were added to meet farmers'
needs for seasonal credit. However, effective demand was also low due to
the reduction of interest subsidies and by 1988, the project had only
assisted 26% of the target beneficiaries with seasonal credit.
3.45     Rural Electrification Credit. The objective of the component was
to provide credit to about 5,500 beneficiaries for electric supplies,
including house connection and metering equipment. The credit conditions
were the same as for agricultural investment credit. The number of farmers
benefitting from electrification credit fell short of the target (1,137 or
21Z). The main reason was again the removal of interest subsidies, although
delays and scarce counterpart resources for the trunk lines also reduced
achievements. In particular the Departamento de Aguas e Energia Electrica
(DAE), the original executing agency for 32 municipalities in remote areas
had operational difficulties and higher than average costs per km of
distribution line than estimated at appraisal.
3.46     At reformulation it was agreed that the component could be
implemented state-wide and not just in 32 selected municipalities; and
there was an agreement to cooperate with the Centrais Electricas de Minas
Gerais (CEMIG) with the expectation of reducing connection costs.



- 47 -
3.47     In the areas covered by CEMIG, the electrification program has
superseded the original program envisaged under the project. This is
because financing terms and conditions were much more attractive and did
not require access to institutional investment credit from commercial
banks.
3.48     Beneficiaries were very eager to obtain electrical connection.
Initially, the electricity is mainly used for domestic purposes, but within
a short period it is also used to power small machinery, such as rice
mills, etc. Overall the actual project expenditure on credit for rural
electrification was US$2.42 million, some 642 higher than the reformulated
target of US$1.48 million.
Agricultural Services
3.49     Land Titling Services. The objective was to provide land titles to
about 14,000 small farmers, thereby improving security of tenure and access
to institutional credit. The reformulated target number of titles to be
legalized under the project was almost attained (11,443 or 822), but the
target of total area legalized was exceeded (224,209 ha or 1262). The rural
development foundation of Minas Gerais (RURALMINAS) carried out land
titling operations very efficiently. One of the reasons for its success has
been the higher than anticipated demand for the service. There are already
indications that land titling has promoted on-farm investment and in some
cases has permitted farmers access to rural electrification credit.
3.50     Agricultural Extension. The aim of the component was to expand the
extension services in 78 project area municipalities. Extension staff were
to carry out agricultural and social extension and participate in project-
related land reclamation, cooperative, community development, and marketing
activities. The component exceeded or attained its targets in terms of new
EMATER local offices (36 or 2002), incremental extensionists (156 or 106Z)
and groups of farmers assisted (387 or 100Z). The component fell short of
the target for the number of farmers assisted (7,851 or 602) and of farm
families socially assisted (7,429 or 25?). It has, however, been successful
in promoting farmers groups and associations. The main problems have been
lack of counterpart resources and credit. The reduced uptake of credit has
limited the possibilities of using credit as a means of promoting
technological change. In January 1989, 10 of the 36 new EMATER local
offices had been closed and 199 extensionists were suspended due to the
present financial crisis, indicating difficulties in sustaining project
achievements.
3.51     Agricultural Research. The SAR recommended that agricultural
research under the project be specifically oriented toward the needs of
small farmers within the project area, and that it should concentrate on
the main crops and on livestock as part of mixed farming systems. The
component did not attain its targets in terms of experiments conducted (312
or 31X of target); demonstration plots (192 or 352); and farms analyzed (74
or 232). It would appear that SAR targets were too optimistic. In part,
this can be attributed to researchers' limited knowledge of the project
population and area. The targets were not changed at reformulation even
though early supervision reports questioned whether the initial program of



- 48 -
1,000 experiments was really needed. Considerable concern exists about the
quality of the experiments carried out and whether they indeed address
farmers' production problems.
3.52     In general cooperation between the state Agricultural Research
Company (EPAMIG), EMATER and the small producer was poor, and there is also
a feeling that EPAMIG did not address the specific problems of the typical
small farmer. By the end of the project there are no observable or
significant changes in productive systems, yields, production or income
attributable to the agricultural research component.
3.53     Land Reclamation. The aim of this component was the reclamation of
about 3,000 ha of flood plains (varzeas), for about 800 beneficiaries, and
the development of an appropriate system of land reclamation for small
farmers. The targets of number of farmers assisted and area reclaimed after
project reformulation were not reached (454 or 57Z and 2,140 ha or 71X,
respectively). The main reason was the lack of cooperation between
RURALMINAS, the executing agency, and EHATER-MG which failed to identify
and introduce a sufficient number of potential farmer groups. Other reasons
for poor delivery included lack of investment credit for communal and on-
farm works, difficulties in securing the cooperation and agreement of all
farmers in an area to the credit conditions of the program, financial
constraints to purchase equipment, shortage of specialized staff and the
isolation from major potential markets of many of the small areas
reclaimed.
3.54     In general terms, the program has not significantly changed
production and productivity. Farmers failed to have more than one harvest,
and there has been very little maintenance of the systems.
3.55     Reforestation. The project aimed at the reforestation of about
6,400 ha for about 4,320 beneficiaries, establishment of about 30 tree
nurseries, and equipment of about 13 new forest extension offices and
planting of about 300 ha of land for experimentation in agro-forestry. The
component attained its targets in terms of new nurseries (34 or 1132)
number of beneficiaries (4,416 or 1022) and area reforested with eucalyptus
(6,460 ha or 101%). The Instituto Estadual da Floresta (IEF) responded to
the needs of small farmers and demand for eucalyptus seedlings has been
strong while demand for coffee and fruit tree seedlings has exceeded
supply. A program for distributing rubber was not successful due to
drought and shortage of land. A complex agro-forestry experiment program
was started almost at the end of the project and its results will only
become available in the years ahead.
3.56     Marketing Services.  The aim of the component was to create a more
integrated marketing system benefitting small farmers within the project
area. It included the construction of storage facilities and agricultural
supply outlets, marketing studies, and training of administrative and
field-level personnel. The component exceeded its target for number of
storage posts (23 or 1922), but fell short for number of sales posts (14 or
74Z).



- 49 -
3.57     Minas Gerais State Trading Company (CAMIG) had severe financial
problems which limited its capacity to execute the federal minimum price
crop purchase program. However, demand for its services in this area was
less than anticipated because of the lack of agricultural production
increases and the consequent shortfall in production surpluses. The role
of CAMIG in project implementation was, therefore, largely restricted to
facilitating the supply of agricultural inputs to conmmnities organized by
other agencies (EMATER, SUDECOOP). For this purpose, CAMIG constructed a
greater number of small stores for operation by cooperatives end farmers'
groups than originally intended, rather than increasing its large-scale
storage capacity. The small stores have helped to promote and organize
farmer marketing groups which concentrated mostly on making group input
purchases (fertilizers and seeds) and,;considerably reduced costs to
farmers.
3.58     CAMIG's direct involvement in input purchase has been small, as it
seems to have lacked the managerial capacity and working capital to execute
such services efficiently at a large scale. It has also been unable to
compete successfully in the group input purchase program as its overhead
costs were too high to permit it to offer competitive prices.
3.59     Assistance to Cooperative Societies. The objective of the
component was to increase cooperative membership and the strengthening of 9
cooperative associations, 60 pre-cooperatives and about 350 farmer groups.
Studies on development opportunities for cooperatives including the
possibility of increasing storage capacity by the construction of small and
medium-size storage facilities were to be undertaken. The component
exceeded its targets in terms of cooperatives created or assisted (11 or
122Z), pre-cooperatives assisted (112 or 187X) and farmer groups assisted
(499 or 1432). The component did not reach its targets for number of
cooperatives trained (23 or 56Z) and for groups trained (195 or 81Z).
Cooperative membership has increased but it cannot be said that it has been
on a permanent basis. Farmers have joined mainly to obtain specific
advantages such as access to technical assistance, rural electrification,
input acquisition, etc., rather than with a long term commitment to
cooperation. The executing agency, the State Superintendency of
Cooperatives (SUDECOOP), emphasized the provision of assistance in
management, accounting and marketing. It has been successful recently in
pursuing a strategy of assisting many communities in the construction of
small storage facilities linked to the development of cooperative
associations' activities.
3.60     The development of cooperative activities has been further
promoted and facilitated by the project's increased cooperation with
municipal authorities who were invited to participate in the preparation of
integrated development plans (Planos Municipais de Acoes Integradas-PMAI).
This new feature of the project was introduced by the PMU after project
reformulation. It had the full support of the state authorities and was
generally welcomed by the local authorities (prefeitos). Overall project
costs for the agricultural services component at US$23.00 million was
similar to the reformulated target of US$22.00 million.



- so -
Feeder Roads
3.61     The objective of the component was to improve year-round
transportation on about 3,360 km of municipal roads and the construction of
about 100 km of new access roads. The component nearly achieved its target
of municipal roads improved (3,074 km or 91X). A new strategy of using
lower design standards for feeder roads and the elimination of critical
points on those roads were introduced, considerably reducing implementation
costs. However, in many instances the quality of the works has been poor
due to insufficient supervision of contractors by the State Highway
Department (DER-MG).
3.62     Purchase of the road construction equipment was not possible
because of lack of counterpart resources. The problem of rural road
maintenance, therefore, remains unresolved because most project
municipalities have no equipment. In addition, most do not have the
financial resources to maintain their extensive network. Although
maintenance contracts were signed between SEPLAN-MG, DER-MG and various of
the project municipalities, they were not effective and municipalities were
reluctant to make the additional budget commitments required. Furthermore,
project municipalities cannot expect much assistance from the large
municipal associations which the state has since set up in more prosperous
areas for the maintenance of rural roads; these associations have little
interest in the project's municipalities which are mainly small and poor.
Project expenditure at US$15.93 million exceeded by 146? the reformulated
allocation of US$ 10.89 million.
Rural Telephone Service
3.63     The objective of the component was the installation of public pay
telephones by the State Water and Electric Energy Agency (DAE). The
original target of 34 telephones was already met in 1981. At project
reformulation, it was decided to extend this component by installing 40
additional phones at community level in densely populated areas. By the
end of the project 55 telephones (74Z of the reformulated target) had been
installed.
Social Infrastructure
3.64     Education. The objective of the component was to improve primary
and secondary education facilities and services throughout the project
area. In general, the component attained its targets in terms of school
canteens constructed and equipped, and school gardens in operation. It
also met its targets for the training of rural school supervision teachers
and rural teachers. The Secretariat of Education (SEE), the executing
agency, has adequately managed the program. One primary school was
renovated as planned, but lack of counterpart funding limited to one the
number of secondary agricultural schools renovated instead of the target of
four. Despite considerable delays, a new curriculum for primary education
was introduced, and was well received. Problems have, however, been
experienced in some aspects of the curriculum, especially the requirement
to involve students and local farmers and the sharing of school
agricultural equipment. Political interference, resulting in the transfer
of teachers from one school to another, has at times caused problems.



- 51 -
3.65     Health and Sanitation. Project aims were to improve the quality of
primary health services through the construction or improvement of health
centres and health posts, the construction of simple water supply systems
and sanitary installations. The performance of the component has been poor.
Targets were not reached for health centres and health posts constructed or
renovated (43 or 812 and 31 or 30?, respectively), nor for health posts
equipped (40 or 67?). The targets for the construction of water supply
systems and sanitary installations were also not fully attained (53 or 62?
and 3,852 or 482, respectively). The main reasons for the shortfalls were
political interference in personnel hiring, lack of clear strategies and
poor implementation capacities of the Secretariat of Health (SES), the
executing agent, and delays and inadequate counterpart funds. In the last
years of the project implementation, achievements improved considerably
after some activities were transferred to the State Sanitation Company
(COPASA) (water supply systems) and EMATER (filters).
3.66     Operation and maintenance of the water supply systems in general,
was very weak or non-existent. The important chagas disease control program
fell short of its target of number of families reached (1,210 or 39X).
3.67     Construction of Community Centres. The objective of the component
was to establish community centres in 32 selected municipalities with
community participation.  In total only 10 centres were built, well below
the target  of 32.  The main reasons for the shortfall were lack of
counterpart funds, and the bureaucratic manner in which the work was
organized which required case-by-case approval by local mayors, health and
education secretaries, and water system boards. By the end of the project,
it had been decided to abstain from financing the construction of new
centers, but concentrate on completing those already under construction.
3.68     Community Development. The aim of the component was to stimulate
community activities in about 30 communities, mobilizing community
resources and establishing a fund to finance community-originated projects.
The component attained its target of municipal nuclei in operation (31 or
103?) and exceeded its target of number of communities assisted (140 or
156?) and of communities using funds (123 or 137Z). The State Secretariat
of Social Labor, Action and Sports (SETAS), the executing agent, has been
effective in creating 270 new entities directly related to community
development. Overall project expenditure on social infrastructure was
US$14.27 million, 82Z of reformulated estimates.
3.69     Project Management. The Project Management Unit benefitted from
the experience of the first project. It has generally been well organized
and able to achieve many project objectives despite severe financial
difficulties. Decentralization could perhaps have improved management
performance through upgrading the functions of regional coordinators.
3.70     Project execution was, however, plagued by problems resulting from
inadequate resources and late funding. The US$50 million external co-
financing loan did not materialize. Rapid devaluation tended to reduce the
project costs expressed in US$, contributing to the slow disbursement rate.
In the beginning, many executing agencies considered the project as a



- 52 -
source of funds to supplement their non-project budgets and tried to work
with little integration or cooperation with other agencies and without the
participation of the beneficiaries. As a result of o.Ieir involvement in the
project, however, most of the executing agencies have since recognized the
need for cooperation, staff have been trained in their new
responsibilities, and the new administrative infrastructure is now better
equipped to handle such projects. Another achievement of the project has
been the increased cooperation that it has promoted with municipal
authorities as a means of integrating activities and attaining the full
participation of communities. However, the limited emphasis paid to the
evaluation of the project impact, precludes a quantitative assessment of
the project's benefits.
3.71     Monitoring reports prepared by the project unit were good and
included an explanation of current problems, statistical progress data and
accounts of the current financial situation. The Federal University of
Visosa (UFV) prepared baseline studies, annual evaluation project reports,
and by the end of 1988, it prepared an ex-post evaluation which incWuded
good general information of each component. Project reformulation
benefitted from the UFV's evaluation results and experience. However, the
limited emphasis paid to the evaluation of the project impact, precludes a
quantitative assessment of the project's benefits.                                         U



Table 10
BRAZIL
MSINA GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loans
Title                   PurPose                 Year of        Status        Comments
ApDroval
Minas Gerais First      Raising of living standards    1977          Completed   Substantially achieved
Rural Development     of some 25,000 small farmers                             objectives according to
Project               in Zona de Mata area                                     PCR dated June 10, 1987
(Loan 1362-BR)        through improved support
services, rural credit and
infrastructure development.
Northeast Rural         Loan of US$55.0 million        July 87       Effective   Slow start-up due to
eM            Development Project   Generation of income and                     since        counterpart funding
in the State of       employment for some                          Oct. 87     problems.
Minas Gerais          50,000 low income rural
(Loan 2861-BR)        families in 42 Northeastern
municipalities through
improved support services,
rural credit and
infrastructure especially
irrigation development.
Hinas Gerais Forestry   Loan of US$48.5 million        Nov. 87       Effective   Delayed effectiveness due
Development Project   Establishment of 34,000 ha                   since       in part to difficulties in
(Loan 2895-BR)        of Eucalyptus plantations                   June 1989   determining system to
and 7,300 ha of native                                   index investment credit.
species on 14,300 small to
medium sized farms with dual
objectives of profitable
timber production and
conservation of natural
forests.



- 54 -
Table 11
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Timetable
Date                     Date
Item                  Planned                  Actual
Identification                May 79                   May 79
Preparation (1)                                        Oct. 79
Pre-appraisal                                          Nov. 79
Appraisal mission                                       Jan. 80
Pre-negotiation                                        March 80
Loan negotiations                                      May 80
Board approval                                         June 19, 1980
Loan signature                                          Sept. 15, 1980
Loan effectiveness                                     Dec. 16, 1980
Reformulation (2)                                      April/May 86
Loan closing                  Dec. 31, 1985             Dec. 31, 1987
Loan completion               June 30, 1985             Sept. 88
____________________
(1)   Two preparation visits: July 1979/two weeks and Sept./October
79/two and a half weeks.
(2)   As early as 1983 it was suggested that the project be
reformulated to take account of the severe financial situation
in the State. However, proposals were not forthcoming from the
State Secretariat of Planning until 1986, when it was agreed to
cancel US$30.0 m of the US$63.0 million loan.



Table 12
BRAZIL
MINAS CERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 18774R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cumulatlv. Estimate! and Actual Disburements
(USS 'Om)
Year                              1981     1962      1983      1984      1986     1986    1987        198
Appraisal Estimate                         3.31      11.6      26.8     43.2      68.0      63.0      0.6        0.0
Actual                                     0.60       2.3       4.3      6.1      13.1      17.1    22.9        82.8
Actual asX of Estioate                      15x       19X       16       14X       21X       27X      $0X        s1X
Date of Flnal Disbursemnt, Dec. l, 19i6
Project reformulated 1986. USt80.0 mil lI on cancel led in 1986 and USW.7 el I ion In 1968.
Source: SEPLAN/SUCEP, February 1989.



56-                           Jabl 18
page 1 of a
BRAZIL
MINAS OERASS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Performance Indleatore
Cumulative     As of
Unit   Appraisal   Achieved     Revised
Completion     as of     Appraisal
Torge        8/S1/88    Target
(3)
Part A - CREDIT
Aaricultural Credit
A.1  Investment                          no.    B0,000        2,106         5 (1)
A.2  Working capital                     no.    88,e00        7,860        28 (1)
A.3  Investment credit (a&  X of total)   X          es
Rural Electrification
A.4  Connections                         no.      6,508       1,137        21 (2)
Part B - AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Land Titlina
8.1  Titles legalized                    no.     14,080      11,443        82 (2)
8.2  Titlee in procese                   no.     14,000
B.   Total area leagized                ha     178,000     224,209       126 (2)
5.4  Average farm siet (ha)              ha          20
Agricultural Extension
6.5  New EMATER local office             no.         18          as       U0 (2)
B.S Incremental extensionist
8.7  a. Agriculture A land reclanmtion  no.          e6         156   196(2 A 8)
b. Social extension                 no.         62        n.d.
B.8  Form famill-s socially assIsted    no.      89,08        7,429        25 (2)
B.O 8 armers assisted (credit and TA)  no.       18,140       7,851       e6  (2)
8.10 Groups of farmers assisted          no.        387         a87       100 (2)
Auriculturol Research
B.11 Experiments                         no.      1,08e         312        81 (2)
8.12 Demonstration plots                 no.        547         192        S5 (2)
8.18 Farms analyzed                      no.        316          74        23 (4)
Land Reclamation
8.14 Farmers as.isted                    no.        68          454        57 (4)
B.16 Area reclaimed                      ha       8,000       2,140        71 (2)



57 -                        Table 1l
page 2 of 9
Forestry
8.16 New IEf offtceo                    no.         18           9       60 (4)
8.17 New nurseries                      no.         80          84     1l1  (2)
8.18 8 neficiaries                      n.o    4,820         4,416      162 (2)
8.19 Ares reforested                    ha       6,400       6,469      101 (2)
9.20 Experimental ars                   ha         B00           -       -  (4)
Mrkeetina
8.21 Storago poets                      no.         12          28      192 (2)
8.22 Sales poets                        no.         19          14       74 (2)
8.23 Additional staff                   no.          4           8      290 (4)
Cooperativye Dovelopment
B.24 Cooperatives assisted              no.          9          11      122 (2)
8.25 Pre-cooperativel wasslstd          no.         60         112      187 (4)
826 Farmer groups assisted             no.        S0          449      148 (2)
Tratning
B.27 Cooperatives                       no.         41          28       68 (4)
B.28 Groups                             no.        240         195       81 (4)
B.29 Staff assigned cooperatives        no.         14           8       21 (4)
Part C - SMALL RURAL ENTERPRISES
C..1  Offices opened                    no.         15                   20 (4)
C.2  Enterprises assisted               no.      1,100         858       88 (2)
C.8  Artisans assisted                  no.        589          21        4 (2)
C.4  Individuals aslsted                no.        50o          62       12 (2)
C.5  Field assistants trained           no.         15           6       40 (4)
C.6  Credit beneficlarles               no.        950         176       19 (4)
Part 0 - PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Fender Roads
0.1  Intraounicipal roads Improved      km.      8,360       8,074       91 (2)
0.2 New feeder roads                    km.        10            0            0
Road Maintenance Prosram
D.8  Contract signed with
municipalities                   no.        102         n.n
D.4  Municipalities trained             no.        102         n.n
D.6 Km maintained                       km.      8,460         n.a
Rural TeleDhones
0.6  Municipellties with public
pay phones                       no.         74          55       74 (2)
Part E - SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Education
Schools
E.1 Primary school renovated            no.          1           1      100 (4)
E.2  Secondary school renovated         no.          4           1       25 (4)



Table 18
-58 -                         pn  a of a
School Canteens
E.3  Constructed                         no.        102          92        90 (4)
E.4  Equipped                            no.        162         162       100 (4)
E26 School gardens In operation          no.        102         102       100 (4)
Training (including recycling)
E.6  Rural school supervision            no.      2,992       2,441        82 (2)
E.7  Rural teachers                      no.      4,688       4,610       09 (2)
Health and Svnitatlon Services
Infrastructure and EquimEnt
E.0  Health centers constructed/renov.  no.          5o          48        81 (2)
E.9  Health posts constructed/renov.    no.         1S            1        890 (2)
E.16 Health centers equipped             no.         80          84       118 (2)
E.11 Health posts equipped               no.         6s          49        67 (2)
Staff Contracted
E.12 Regional suporvisors                no.          7          18       18B (4)
E.18 Doctors                             no.         27          27       100 (2)
E.14 Attendants                          no.        248         106        79 (2)
Trainina (including recycling)
E.15 Supervisors                         no.       1i6           s         28 (4)
E.16 Doctors                             no.         43          48       100 (2)
E.17 Attendants                          no.        287         1S5        54 (2)
Construction
E.18 Water supply systems                no.         86          68        82 (2)
E.19 Sanitary installations              no.      8,000       8,852        48 (2)
Additlonal Staff Contracted
E.20 Supervisors                         no.          7          18       18S (4)
E.21 Inspectors and attendante           no.         13          18       109 (4)
E.22 Chagas control program             fam.      8,100       1,210        89 (4)
F-
Community Centers
E.28 Community centers constructed       no.         32         l         82 (2)
E.24 Community centers equipped          no.         82           4        18 (4)
Community Develooment
E.26 Municipal nucleus In operatton      no.         80          81       106  (2)
E.26 Communitieo assisted                no.         g0         140       156 (4)
E.27 Communities using fund              no.         90         128       187 (4)
Part F - ADMINISTRATION
F.1  Regional offices Installed          no.          4           4       100 (2)
(1) Supervision Report, Official Memorandum, Feb. 8, 1986. J. ilidebroek, 10RD
Figures refer to 80.09.1986.
(2) Re laorie Final de Aveliacion, Programs Estedual de Promocion de Pequenoo
Produtores Rurnit de MInas Goersa-MQU. Univortidad d Federal do Vicons, Brazil.
1988. Figures ar, up to 81 March 1988.
(8) The 156 figure Includes all extenslonetse.
(4) Supervision Report, Offictal Memorandum, Feb. 8, 1086. J. Heldebroek, IBRD
Figures are up to 80.09.1988.



_     _                                   Table 14
page 1 of a
BRAZIL
MINAS OERAtS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPUENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-UR)
PROJECT COMPLETTON REPORT
Prolect Costs and Financing
A. Prolect Cost.
Agsiesal Estimates   Revised  Actual  Actuall
Local   Foreign  l--t  -r oots    Costs    v s-T8
-     ---UauSmTlTon -------  (-)
Credit
"n-farm Investment credit         18.42      2.58   21.00   2.94        6.58    188
Seaonal credit                                                2.94      1.40      48
Electrification credit            12.A0 4.10   18.40    1.48            2.42    184
Sub-total                      8a.72       0.6e   87.46   7.38        0.35    127
Agricultural Services
Land Titling Services              0.28      6.67    e.85    1.18       6.05      so
Rural Extension                   16.89      1.54   16.93  10.29    12.96    126
Agricultural Research              8.78      6.87    4.15   1.18        1.58    la1
Land Reclamation                   1.56      0.40    1.66   0.88        0.98     109
Reforestation                      2.16      0.19    2.85   2.06        1.82      64
Marketing                          4.48      0.68     5.16   2.65       1.98      75
Asslistnce to Cooperative          4.8S      0 67    4.92    8.53       a so      98
Sub-total                       15.422    4.210   19.682  21.77      23.00    160
Small Non-Form EnterDrises
Technical Assistance               2.22      6.164    2.88    1.47      0.98      es
Physical Infrastructure
Feeder Roads                      19.86      9.80   29.10   10.89      15.93     146
Telephone Comunication             1.09      0.Ls    1.45   1.48        1.26      84
Sub-total                       26.89    10.18      o.5s5  12.87     17.18    139
Social Infrastructure
Education                          0.09      0.88     7.52   8.82       8.94    1i8
Health and Sanitation              0.21      0.85    7.08   10.88       6.44      62
Coesunity Centers                  8.47      0.61     8.98    1.18      06.51     48
Community Developmnt               1.61       a.o9    I."    2.07       8.398    les
Sub-total                       17.88      2.28    26.16   17.40     14.27      82
Project Management
Administration A Monitoring        4.10      0.6S     4.66    8.58      2.58      72
Evaluation                         2.48      0.22    2.70    2.68       1.99      97
Sub-total                        6.u       6.78     7.86   5.59       4.62      80
Unallocated                          -         -        -       8.76
basoline Costs                     116.18    28.64   188.07                         go
Physical Contingencies               7.48      1.59    9.05
Price Contingencies                 U4.50      78B   41.8B
TOTAL PROJET COS1S                 152.99  U2.49  184.9  609.n1          69.2?



8S         2~~~~
I    a  I 8           i.
S~~~~~~~~~ 
X C           11 
3fi       lll~~~~



Table 14
-61  -                                              paes  B of 8
C. 6n=aI Protct eaei l
(USS mil  let)
On-fom Investment
Credit                0.000    0.508    1.017    0.34    0.510   0.6198    0.011    0.741   0.050  5.5t0
S"anal Credit           0.000    0.000    0.000    O.OO    0.214    0.456    0.010    0.60    0.114  1.401
Electriicatbion Crdit    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.102    0.018    O..3   0.181    0.000   2.005  2.402
Land Titl Ing Servite   0.000    0.22    0.253    0.22S    0.069    0.056    0.00    0.021   0.041  0.946
Rural Estenemi          0.727    2.012    2.485    0.947    2.S0t    1.804    1.6     1.087   O.920 12.956
Agricultural Rearch     .0tJ   0.206    0.20t    0.17    0.2m9    0.878    0.10       0.101   0.002  1.882
Land Recamtlon          0.000    0.168    0.219    0.090    0.068    0.137    0.09    0.166   0.064  0.98
Retoreetetion           0.09    0.184    0.211    0.12    O.2II    0.250    0.120    0.12B   0.061  1.120
Marketing               0.176    0.369   0.828    0.269    0.294    0.123    0.090    0.008   0.138  1.97
Asasitance to
CooperatIves Sec.     0.008    0.814    0.860    0.819    0.475    0.871    0.101    0.684   0.498  8.298
Smi IItMa-Fore
Enterprises           0.07S    0.148    0.182    0.114    0.14    0.184    0.006    0.090   0.068  0.961
Feeder RPods            0.000    0.248    O.Sllt   0.10    0.198    4.086   2.844    0.808   7.648 15.988
Telephoe C ewniction    0.000    0.765    0.07    0.001    0.028    0.018    0.119    0.247   0.042  1.247
Education               0.000   0.424    1.062    0.855   0.872    0.800    0.194    0.680   0.883  8.940
Health ad Oeniteton     0.000    0.857    0.66    0.248    0.29     0.698    0.0U     0.878   8.211  6.442
Co.uity Coneere         0.000    0.010    0.168    0.141    0.070    0.061    0.010    0.086   0.000  0.809
Communitt Developme     0.009    0.168    0.257    0.180    0.201    0.271    0.118    1.215   o.e24  8.880
Project lna24mnt ad
Ev luetion            Li       oIm    ..L       aid      LM0 LQ.4          LIA    L0    O.24  .s
In&             1.487    6.787   10.041    4.141    6.427    9.648    8.201    8.095  17.800 69.272
Source: NPLAnCP, Febrturs 1969.



Table 15
-62 -
8RAZIL
MINAS CERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877-1R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Us. ot Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staffweoek)
Prp t rntion
Fiscal      Identification        Appraisal and    Supervtaion    Total
Year                             Negotiations
1979               13.0
1980                                   147.8
1981                                                    17.1
1992                                                    20.9
1968                                                     5.6
1984                                                     8.8
1985                                                    11.4
1988                                                    16.1
1987                                                     6.0
1988                                                     8.2
TOTAL              18.0                147.8            98.6       248.S
S. Missions
item              Data    No. of   SID In    Specieliation  Pertorwnce            Trend    T    o
-   or  UBFersoons -FTild                        Rting
(1}      ~(2)             8)(4)                 (6)*
Identification        6/79        2
Preparation 1         7/79        2         a
Preparation 2         9/79        2        82
Preappraisal          11/79       7        100
Appraisal             1/e0       18       n.d.
Pro-negotiation       8/80        1         0
SupervisIon (6)       9/81        1       n.d.           n.d.
SupervisIon           8/81        5        42         a b c f h t          2            1         F
Supervision (7)       10/81       2        10              a h             2            2         F
Supervision           11/81       2       n.d.           a + 1    reform discussd
Supervoiion           11/81       1       n.d.              c          (Health)
Supervision           4/82        1         8              f           (Educat.)
SupervtoIon           5/82        6        49         a c f 9 hi           2            1         F
Supervision           2/88        2        18              a h             2            8         F
SupervtnIon           7/83        1         6               h              2                      F
Supervision           7/88        1        12              f           (Educst.)
Supervision           12/88       1         6                            n.d.         n.d.      n.d.
Supervision           9/84        1         6              a               2            2         F
Supervision           8/64        1         9              f           (Educat.)
Supervniion           11/84       1         5               c          (Health)
Supervision           7,/8        1         2               a
Supervision           11/86       1         4              c           (Helth)
Supervision           11/6       1         8              a               2         Static
Sup rvision           3/66        2        14                           (Roado)
Sup rvision           S/86        1         6              t           (Educat.)
Sup rvilson           12/66       2         9              a               2         Static
Supervtoion           12/67       1                         h              2         Static
Sup rvision           0/87        1                         a
(1) Staff days
(2)  *   ag*riculturalist; b a agricultural economist; c a   helth specialist; d a water engineer;
*zi r tegation engineer; f a educationist; g a road engineer; h a financail analyst
(8)  1 u problem tre or minor problems; 2 a moderat  problems; 8 * major probloem
(4) 1 I improving; 2 a stationary; 3 a deteriorating
(5) F a Financial N = aMnagerial; P a Political; 0 a Other; T a Technical
(6) Review of Implementation progr es.
Ln



- 63 -
Table 16
BRAZIL
VDNAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1877t-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Withdrawal of the Procoeds of the Loan
Original    Revised   Amount       Actual Disbursed/
Category                     Loan        Loan    Actually        Actual Amount
Allocation Allocation Disbured          Allocated
A'                           X
On-farm Investment Credit           7,601      1,WO      1,741              174
Seasonal Credit                         0      1,00        656               65
Electrification Credit              6,008    1000    1,486                 149
Land Titling Services                 200        400       279               70
Rural Extension                     6,806      8,600    4,628               180
Agricultural Research               1,6800       4e6       641              160
Land Reclamtion                     1,000        8Wa        S1              120
Reforestation                       1,000        786       526               75
Marketing                           2,200        s08       642               71
Assist. to Cooperatives Soc.        2,086      1,20W     1,275              106
Small Non Farm Enterpries           1,200        C00       831               66
Feeder Roads                       11,60       7,860   10,879               141
Telephone Comunication                ee W     1,80        365               8?
Education                           3,G00      1,3860    1,428              109
Health and Sanitation               8,200      5,860    3,696                72
Community Centers                   2,200        400       168               42
Community Developmnt                  886      1,400    1,902               142
Project Uanagement and Evolustion    3,008     1,900     1,659               82
Unallocated                        90600       8.750        67                0
TOTAL                            8,W00    88,86    82,297               162
Source: DBRO Data.



-64 -                                                                                                  h  lof2
BAL
NS mRts RfSB OAL R                                   V Er
MManim Rsn
Produetion of' Iin Crea In the State of Nines Crls-ta
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................
e178/7j 7 -1979/80-
Yields Production                                                                                Yield. Prodction
Crop                        '000 he             S          t/ha   '000 ten.                      Crop                        '000 Ka             S          t/hna   000 to
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................
Rice                          1509.8            14.7          1.29   65e.89                      Rice                           591.90           15.8          1.41   681.68
auna                           449.94           13.0         0.47   210.81                       Sean.                          658.16           17.0          0.50   826.70
Corn                        1,595.68            46.0          1.68 2,688.20                      Con                         1,740.05            48.0          1.78 8,010.65
tnioec                         128.11            8.5    14.97 1.648.85                           Maniac                         128.52            8.8    15.09 1,989.89
cotton                         100.04            2.9          0.69    69.81                      cotton                         108.05            2.7          1.04   107.04
Coffe                          517.07           14.9          1.81   988.68                      Coffe                          462.25           11.9          0.88   404.92
Sucarcan*                      175.06            5.0   41.88 7,880.98                            Suaroan.                       187.88            4.6   43.84 8,175.70
TOTAL ARZA   8,471.15                      1oo                                                   TOTAL MEA    S. .26                       10O
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................
I 9 180 / 8 1-                                                                                                     1 9 8 1 / 8 2-
Yield. Production                                                                               Yield. Production
Crop                        '000 ha             t          t/hn   '000 tons                      Crop                        'OO he             S         t/ha   '000 tons
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................
Rice                           mS5.6e           15.7          1.06   668.85                      Rice                           868.29           14.6    1.S0  7S1.72
8en-                          758.62            18.6    0.52   898.22                            iln.                           744.76           19.8    0.45  85.17
Corn                        1,689.22            41.8          1.72 2,012.87                      Corn                        1,G54.85            42.9          1.8  8,020.92
maniac                         125.81            8.1    14.82 1,864.62                           Mantie                         101.98            2.8    18.87 1,862.78
Cotton                         116.15            2.9         0.85   "9.11                        ClttAn                          99.o0             2.6    0.84    88.24
Coffee                         528.95           15.1          2.56 1,88.51                       Cfee                           480.06           12.4          1.00   479.44
Sugarcrn-                      192.88            4.8    46.42 8,e95.80                           Sugarcne                       216.89            5.6    50.17 10,686.1
TOrAL  AtE  4,042.20   ltO                                                                       TOAL ARM    885,65.87                      100
......................................................                                           ............................................................................. ...........................



-65 -                                                                             Ttl* 17
pae* 2 of 2
........................... .............................................................................  ......................................................
e962/6a 8-9--I .- 4-
Yielde  Production                                                               Yield.  Production
Crop                   '0ow  he         S        t/ha      000  tone              Crop                    000 he          S        t/he    '000 tons
......................................................                            ............................................................................. ...........................
RIc                       5S87.88       1S.1        1.48    778.60                Rico                      548.84        14.4        1.08    594.31
bens                      5s45.19       15.6        0.4S    258.81                S..n-                     885.01        17.2        0.44    286.57
Corn                   1,41t.51         40.4        1.89 2,674.86                 Cmer                   1,tS9.54         40.4        1.66 258,6.89
anlic4 96.65                             2.8       18.14 1,269.79                 N.nli.                     91.85         2.4      11.64 1,088.41
Cotten                     88.41         2.4        1.88    110.91                Cotton                    109.14         2.9        0.77      84.09
Coffee                    600.61        17.1        1.81 1,084.25                 Coffee                    609.88       1l.0         1.14    690.68
Sugaroane                 295.74         6.7      85.09 12,986.8                  Sut arce                  256.18         6.7      55.09 14,111.2
OTM. ARA          8,505.e4          10o                                          TOTAL AtA          8,808.87          100
~~~~~~~~~~~.................. ..........................................  ......................................................
......................................................                            .......................................................................... ...........................
1984/ 8 ----                                                                     198a/8 6-
Yields  Produttlon                                                               Yield.  Production
Crp                     000 he         t        t/ha    '00t  tone              CP                      't00O ha e   S             /ha    '0O  toea
......................................................                            ............................................................................. ...........................
Rice                       39.45        14.1        1.56    850.97                Rice                      5817.91       15.0        1.62    950.91
Sean.                     620.84        16.8        0.86    287.82                Been                      86.48         14.4        0.46    258.20
Corn                   1,806.88         89.5        2.00 8,015.12                Corn                    1,839.84         89.7        2.09 8,266.25
Manioc                     91.07         2.4       12.29 1,118.98                 Manic                     98a.2         2.4      12.21 1,141.48
Cotton                    156.86         4.1        1.88    206.66                Cotton                    161.60         4.1        1.05    169.90
Coffee                    62.00         18.8        2.05 1,2 .68                  Coff                      e62.98        18.9        0.9      654.00
Sugarc%n.                 250.15         7.3      57.87 16,212.6                  suarcane                 207.70          7.6      86.44 16,800.6
TItAL  MEA        8,815.00          1C0                                           TOrAL M e    8,928.40               100
1 Produdtien data foe the specific project crop was rob ovalable at the ties of the Niseion field vieit (January 1989).
SME UnlIveraidade Federal de Viaew. January 1969. Brazil



CEARA RURAL DEVELOPM,ENT                                                                            PROROJECT1
EXISTING SOCIAL AND ECONOh41C INFRASTRUJCTU:REr, 
r ,,8, 2, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L) orfs)
3'  ;5VAI   ,-  '    5 EtA *>:Z:   % >      o                          3-           S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  U  T H  < 
r  $l   @    ;;;.                  R '  t   < o                              A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A M CR I C A  
CHEIR OOS0<5+0 tR XA 0XvRO"SOS
00--- olNDiP~2N                    % ,O,i .   ?0$t                          -N"E/
_VCo AOsOD Al
C~~~~~~ ollouzo> -z   ooijU                                       *s                so         O LCLHAT  ETR
)~~~ \ < / oo^ C~~~~~~~~~~~-A                          U HALT POST
lu                                                                    llA ACAA     SCRu        EO-    EXPRMNALSAIN
--7- 69A~~r TEA   TIPRpa- MuPySRYC C
S S  GRE v0 CETAL            COOEATV
! mov 0 9    eo                                      0
J      E:.X C) II <                                O      t rPNTOA  AKTRCOEAIE
KILC)METERS  NOV     P                      CO0s                                                MNCPLTE
etuOt_es.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  T                              .f MAIND PiUCN IPTE
zr              4                               3t                              <-                        X s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIXD



BRAZIL                                                                   3
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                              </
SOILS AND RAINFALL                                                                           B R A Z I
l t- j}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R    ES.T>cAA ZD I L
1'1
'I '"~~* BIt VR                                                                                                              I C  A
4-z rO                                                      Eli 4a / rriwl. r h oeMrW~ ris~   
rems,w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~SUT   ~
9                                                                                                                 FORTALEZA~~RTO
4.t
SUITABLE FOR FORESRYANLNTURAL            PASUR
H IIOM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERS~~WTHLMTAIN
This sup bus ban p,sp.-od by Lbs W~~~~~~,M Bssko SUP ooolosbSUITABL0FORLIMPROED PASTUR
OILS. ,.ba,s of Lb. rupoL to olboh /L, SLL.obud. Th. baon,SUTABLEFORkFOESTRYANDoNAURAL ASLUR
bsc.,da.s ohs,,,, - 5kb .sup do not ,bspb,~~~~ so 550 post ofNOTLSsITABLE  OR A,RkCsLdURAL US



_______________________ rs , o o '  = w:|LNI#    i                           IBRD 14
44- ~~~~~~~~0Gale.h    oSI~drThit Wis has 0000 gx,d by th                                                                                            MRC
Wortd 8,Ik s steft "t,,s1n.ty joe  COLOMBIA-  *
t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~me cc. lono,-   of the (004.0 of
th. 'opel so .hkh it in, an.cefd.
T'ho  Uoooe soeced e,d 500
(9                          J   ) ~piinas2 A   H   I  A                                udd., s w,  th                           A MAZOS
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  Mt Io, .1  m                            ofy, th-
7o d gie ot 10  th e  I g al    Sto wO   o f
occopIt-nc  ofii' I.honn
.0          /"                      /elo                                                                                                llSGR I
t oa~b                        SaoJoo                                                                                                          AfblANJiC 116,
"'ito                                                            fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ se-Be  FA
wrilo 'q %n.isce     /  r2q,+f. m                  Padrey s ('  C    B /A H  IA SECOND         RUR A    L DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- etropolitadn boundarY of Belo Harizans
n  o smal-fametrprise
\  .  t  \< s . - . > . . > - XAgr ff / Regionrxl office of project *dministro Regona offce 0 proectadmiistrtoo
\   -/   n    )  SfQ)  D   /          >                                            1           ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~  Existing grain storage capacity lin tons)
Scito  do ( Jone5i5cX= 4n7 1%s,  P |   A  *    Municipalities with rurol electrification   works
low 1d Aa&c                                                                                                                         ARGh..   4z rc    ioENTI oS    omvoo
~~~~E~~~~~~~O                                        )                re&hM"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sno AnAArI-----.St0 O 0 04 5t6 7    boundary
M o n tesnot                                                                      doT Menci  Jacinro  6'  oouo~
Totoierog .~~~~~~~~~~~~T~~~he de.Ioeoi,e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  I                                                    7 )
B   R A   Z   I L~~~~~~~~~~



NATURAL VEGETATION                                                                                                                                           -4                                              rC ;98
Flo,esto Tropical                                                                    GOIS 9A    H                                                                                                                          I      
Crowdo                                                      
:'&2    *.t~s8.no.a.d.shI(                               JEOU)lTINHO
Caotng            el-ASOFA    toB 
b.s..ht. 1. its                     SOA't9cA
-i   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  *~~~~~~~~~~27  \.    ~            ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~    ~~~~0*~~~~~~~p-s
Li               1k           'l  RMUC 'RI 
~ro   ~  BA~fl~l~.  '~                     RIO   DOC
I' BASIN                                                                                                                                          A-icr
~~~~~~~ L-
RFSERVOIR                                                                                                 C)o~    IR? ~ 4
c, ci  AS                     (11Jj                                                                                                                             K~~~~TKTv~ i  
7 ~~~~~~~ SAO SIMAC~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                          ~~~SA T
~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~
MINSRGERA I                                                                                                                                                                                                              -RI
SECOND RUR ALU DVELOMENT ROEC
C'~
Gm.el roads     0~~ Citis 0o
-     Paved roads     4. Landing0 stisPra                                                                                                                                                      e:ooa"~i!s 
Rood. to ho paved            tate capitol
Grovel weds       0  Cities, roan.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1,2005
KILOMETERS 0      50         SO        IS         200       20
MILtS 0               50              ICC              ISO
''S   PAULO            r1
sen                                                                                                                     "*-OEAER



                                                                                                                        c                                                                                                                 . * ^ W -s >' ' ' IBRD
46a                           too YoToP oro/f  ToWdMIoOtoo                                                          o hTso6ioOuoni   Tootornia                                     |   'z       VS                         t                  MARCF
ttoteotittiteiy                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA
o~~\Atoiirootootitii                                         Goal   Po /ro     \    )St tinge                                   $                                          4           (          j                          RiO
- tao,Otodoe                                         >                                                                                     /ot6 0 Atw0o et   ' =                                                  S/C>    >9-EU g 5                             h 
\   '  t-mK A ( } (-t t Ro                                                                                                                                                    /    d      o 
4.eh_ -X>L  ~~n                                                                            Piate4         ara,jteab           {       u        7i  -teo                               Aoapnga                  PocflC  btK~01    50 oiVA
)   f;i!n"30nho/ Corceic30i < / ~~~jaloZ                                                      /                        -      S orwoP?5mte            S         Mirattooo                                                                   Bivupsncaess
/ ~ ~    ~        ~ ~ ~ ~~ /                                             + (3   SUREIO                                     /DGE        Nwclofc5nrRAIeteSlosr
Poont                                 SECOND RURLAL EEOPMET R
'C/irRemMeiv@$                                             J<ooRj AfZ    f t                                                       C j                             C guas 3                                        S UBREGIONS  IIS                A D  I  L
S  A   O    '   tAU    L  O                    r -t-/                            v            _      _        , 4        -      A        R        X        -          v               7                -                o   launseeprn0|eaes wlfb uirolhel ctrificotion woris
PocoodeCaldas   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           .-                           -s--s--s-i- Ra~~~~~~~~~~~~tttilrAd
I To~~landio                                                                                                                                                        0     Srato topitalsPid
d. C.- j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00Cte adlts
otoolo  SJadede    '~~~~-'                                                                                        ~                                                                                          Built-up areasd.
A  Espiri  -              Boependi  ~~~~~~~~~~~~,-'--~~~~- -                                                                                                              Subregion boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~
L                                                        B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oinnr totterIs
Al                                                                                                                                                                                                      =     P  onReioa oflc.f..ec  diisrto
.  jesu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~              -.                                                                                                                   Roisting Brain storage tanaoisii in tonsf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. b p~.
Pocos de C.ldj                                                                                                                                                                                                           -------* MuncrpolItiew5  eeb    ok



