Document of                         LE:
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
tewt No. P-2832-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1980
Tiwumest kw  r s..ldcd didrbuSIs nd may be _ed by rexcpl.  only in te "edamma 
I  dr oUid doW   I% t. eWb  may a siberwbe be dbadhd w_ibt Wold 3.k m_h.rlumn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 1, 1980        May 21, 1980
Currency Unit     -   Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1              .   Cr$ 42.33               Cr$49.95
Cr$1              -   US$0.0235               US$0.0200
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$42.33)
corresponds to the cruzeiro buying price as of January 1, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BB             -   Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
CAMIG          -   Companhia Agricola de Minas Gerais
(Agricultural Trade Company of the State of Minas Gerais)
CASEMG         -   Companhia de Armazens e Silos de Minas Gerais
(State Storage Company)
CEMIG          -   Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A.
(The Minas Gerais Electrification Company)
DAE             -   Departamento de Agua e Energia Eletrica do Estado de Minas Gerais
(State Water and Electric Energy Agency)
DER-MG          -   Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais
(State Highway Department)
EMATER-MG      -   Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Minas Gerais
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPAMIG         -   Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais
(State Agricultural Research Institute)
FUNRURAL       -   Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Social Security Fund for Agricultural Workers)
ICM            -   Imposto Sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Tax on Product Circulation)
IEF            -   Instituto Estadual de Florestas
(State Forestry Institute)
MVR             -   Maior Valor de Referencia
(Maximum Reference Value)
PCU            -   Project Coordination Unit of the Minas Gerais Second Rural
Development Project
PMC            -   Project Management Council of the Minas Gerais Second Rural
Development Project
PRODEMATA      -   Projeto de Desenvolvimento da Zona da Mata
(First Rural Development Project in Minas Gerais)
RURALMINAS      -   Fundacao Rural Mineira, Colonizacao e Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Rural Development Foundation of Minas Gerais)
SEA            -   Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEE            -   Secretaria de Estado da Educacao de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Education)
SEPLAN         -   Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e Coordenacao
Geral de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination)
SES            -   Secretaria de Estado da Saude de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Health)
SETAS          -   Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho, Acao Social, e Desportos
de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Labor Social Action, and Sports)
SUDECOOP       -   Superintendencia de Cooperativismo
(State Superintendency of Cooperatives)
TELEMIG        -   Telecomunicacoes de Minas Gerais
(State Telecommunication Company)
UFV             -   Universidade Federal de Vicosa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$63 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 8.25% interest per annum
Project
Description:       The objectives of the project are to increase the
production and productivity of 30,000 small farms
and 1,100 non-farm enterprises, to increase rural
employment opportunities and to improve social and
physical infrastructure for the poorest rural areas
of the State of Minas Gerais. Related objectives
are to increase local participation in project
activities and to improve institutional capability
in project execution, monitoring and evaluation.
The project provides for increased rural investment
credit, the strengthening of agricultural services,
technical assistance for small non-farm enterprises,
improved physical infrastructure and social services,
and the institutional development of participating
agencies and project management.
The main risks faced by the project are those of not
achieving active staff participation and adequate
coordination among the various participating agencies.
To minimize these risks, staff from the executing
agencies were fully involved in project preparation,
and the. State Government has established an inter-
agency Project Management Council and a Project
Coordination Unit. The participating agencies would
each appoint a full-time project manager. The
project also provides for detailed annual work plans,
consultant services, and continuous project monitor-
ing and evaluation. lIany of the agencies have
acquired relevant experience through their
participation in the first Minas Gerais Rural
Development Project.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
--- US$ Millions----
Local  Foreign  Total 3/
Credit
On-farm Investment Credit                18.42    2.58   21.00
Electrification Credit                   12.30    4.10   16.40
Subtotal                           30.72    6.68   37.40
Agricultural Services
Land Titling Services                     0.28    0.07    0.35
Rural Extension 1/                       15.39    1.54   16.93
Agricultural Research 2/                  3.78    0.37    4.15
Land Reclamation                          1.56    0.40    1.96
Reforestation                             2.16    0.19    2.35
Marketing                                 4.48    0.68    5.16
Assistance to Cooperative Societies    4.35    0.57    4.92
Subtotal                           32.00    3.82   35.82
Small Non-Farm Enterprises
Technical Assistance                      2.22    0.16    2.38
Physical Infrastructure
Feeder Roads                             19.30    9.80   29.10
Telepbone Communication                   1.09    0.36    1.45
Subtotal                           20.39   10.16   30.55
Social Infrastructure
Education                                 6.69    0.83    7.52
Health and Sanitation                     6.21    0.85    7.06
Community Centers                         3.47    0.51    3.98
Community Development                     1.51    0.09    1.60
Subtotal                           17.88    2.28   20.16
Project Management
Administration and Monitoring             4.10    0.56    4.66
Evaluation                                2.48    0.22    2.70
Subtotal                            6.58    0.78    7.36
Total Baseline Costs                      110.13   23.54  133.67
Physical Contingencies                    7.46    1.59    9.05
Price Contingencies                      34.50    7.36   41.86
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       152.09   32.49  184.58
1/   Includes agricultural and social extension services, and extension
assistance for land reclamation and marketing.
2/   Includes agricultural and small farm management research, marketing
and agro-forestry studies.
3/   Project costs include an estimated US$5.4 million of taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                       -------US$ Million--------
Local     Foreign    Total
Government        71.6         -         71.6
IBRD              30.5       32.5       63.0
External
Co-Financing   50.0          -        50.0
Total            152.1       32.5      184.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                       --------------US$ Millions-------------
Bank FY           1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual             3.3    8.5   15.0   16.4   14.8    5.0
Cumulative         3.3   11.8   26.8   43.2   58.0   63.0
Rate of Return:      Estimated at 16% for the productive aspects of the project
with directly quantifiable benefits.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2924-BR, dated May 30, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the State of Minas Gerais with the guarantee of the Federative Republic
of Brazil for the equivalent of US$63 million to help finance the Minas
Gerais Second Rural Development Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that recently returned from Brazil. The mission
is at present preparing its report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Govern-
ment include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and balance-
of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living
standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP rose
at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising 13% per
annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased by more than 7% per year.
This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external resource
balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a
gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although income growth was
unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most Brazilians shared in
the absolute improvement of living standards that was taking place. Among the
sources of development were a rapid growth of public sector investments, the
expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier, the inflow of foreign capital and
technology, and a more than 25% per year annual growth of manufactured exports.
The total external debt (public and private) increased over this period from
US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion, but much of this accumulation was added to
international reserves, which rose from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum must be imported. Thus, as
a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Northeast Basic Education Project (No. P-2826-BR,
dated May 21, 1980).



swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern Brazil.
The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign
exchange.  Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manufactured and semi-processed
exports, total merchandise exports rose only 4.4%, compared to a 13.8% increase
in merchandise imports. The contraction of agricultural output and rapid buildup
of international reserves contributed to price pressures, maintaining inflation
at about 40% for the third consecutive year.
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth
was 6.4%, a modest increase over the preceding year. High demand, the poor
harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of inflation
in 1979. Inflation for the year reached 78%, the highest rate since 1964.
10.       Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs contributed also to a progressive deterioration
of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the continued rapid
growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small
surplus in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit



- 3 -
in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to which
about 60% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising gross interest
payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion in 1979. Conse-
quently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9 billion to US$9.7
billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion was
provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrowings
in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0
billion, respectively, compared to US$14.1 billion and US$8.8 billion in 1978.
Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary credits, and
an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available to Brazil was
sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves to US$9.0
billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and
nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt rose to US$49.9
billion, or 24% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were
followed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and January 1980. The
most important of these measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports, and the imposition of a temporary export tax on
primary products; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; a modification of administered credit programs which
is intended to reduce subsidies; establishment of ceilings on monetary correction
and exchange rate adjustment during 1980; and the imposition of direct controls
on credit expansion by the private banking system.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Coverage
of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and extended to
the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered
by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has
been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system,
rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to re-
ceive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million
loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A
sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public



water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack
the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prosp^cts
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company.  Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to
expand domestic coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy
conservation. While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported
energy remains a formidable problem. With oil expected to constitute US$10-12
billion (over half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability continues to be a principal preoccupation of
economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms have been undertaken to
improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the marked improvement of information flows and administrative control in the
public secto-, includ ng the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprise ; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of
the subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central
Bank; and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under considera-
tion are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities of the
Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating power, and
a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, many administratively complex tariff exemption schemes have
been eliminated as part of a general rationalization of the trade regime.
Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource availabil-
ities over the next several years, priority attention will continue to be
given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and major
import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5.5% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-79. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit after 1981 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



- 5 -
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1983. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the period 1980-85
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will result in continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1982, though declining sharply there-
after. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to peak
at 6.0% in 1980 and fall steadily to 1.0% by 1985. This projection assumes that
import restraint continues to 1985, permitting a large trade surplus to appear
in 1984; alternatively imports could be accelerated as the balance-of-payments
constraint is eased, at the cost of a larger current account deficit in 1984
and beyond.
19.       Under the assumption of continued import restraint, net medium- and
long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be around US$9 million in
1980, remain in the range of US$10-11 billion from 1981 to 1983, then fall
to US$6 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be maintained at a
level of US$16-19 billion throughout the five-year period, with US$12-15
billion obtained as financial credits from private lenders. Consequently
the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak in 1980 at 60%, falling to about
39% in 1985. As a proportion of GDP total outstanding medium- and long-
term debt would reach 32% in 1982 and decline slowly thereafter.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate
that the adjustment process must go much further. The Government recognizes
the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.      'The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will
continue to make projections subject to a wide margin of error. The present
scenario also depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manu-
factured exports, despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy,
and on its continued access to international capital. A major effort is
underway to reduce dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results
will not be apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian
economy remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should
greatly strengthen their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration
noted in 1979, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional
terms.
1/   Including both public and private debt.



PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By April 30, 1980 the Bank had made 94 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,772 million (net of cancellations), of which 49 u-re not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, and US$295 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of FY80
amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next few
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-79 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77, seven
loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine loans totalling US$705 million;
and in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million were made. So far in FY80,
five loans have been approved: a US$114 million loan for power distribution,
a US$130 million loan for water supply and sewerage in the south, a US$58
million loan for industrial pollution control in Sao Paulo, a US$159 million
loan for a suburban rail transport project in Porto Alegre, and a US$139
million loan for a third water supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais.
The documents for a US$32 million loan for a rural education project in the
Northeast have been distributed recently to the Executive Directors. Work is
relatively advanced on the preparation of two additional power loans and a
second rural development project in Ceara. It is expected that loans will be
proposed for these projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank held 3.6%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%. In 1980, the Bank's share
in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very slightly, while its share
in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.
25.       As of April 30, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$499
million, of which US$332.3 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$166.7 million, US$127.4 million represent loans and
US$39.3 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30,
1980 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project is mainly
directed. Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational
training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder construction
in the lower Sao Francisco river basin and for integrated rural development in
the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia,
Sergipe and Pernambuco were designed to assist low-income groups in rural



- 7 -
areas. Additional projects to assist the rural poor are in preparation,
including a rural credit project and several integrated rural development
projjects in the Northeast. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in
the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, and in the Northeast for
urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and services and low-cost
housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor. Several loans to reach low-income groups in
urban areas have recently been approved, including water supply and sewerage
projects in three southern states and Minas Gerais and a pollution control
proJect for Greater Sao Paulo. Additional pollution control, transport, and
water supply and sanitation projects are in preparation.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective is particularly important in the proposed project which seeks to
strengthen administrative capabilities at the state, regional, and local levels.
It is expected that the experiences gained by the participating agencies during
the proposed project's preparation and implementation will be applied to future
rural development efforts in Minas Gerais and elsewhere in Brazil. Loans for
electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research
and extension, water supply and sewerage, and urban development also have
important institution-building objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
impcrts. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is



- 8 -
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial ins'-itutions, and sevcral others are in preparation. In connection
with the proposed project, the State of Minas Gerais is expected to obtain
a loan of about US$50 million from external banks to help finance its share
of total project costs. The usual co-financing links for the commercial
bank financing with the proposed Bank loan would be provided (see para. 67).
PART III - The Agricultural Sector
The Sector in the National Economy
30.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy, employing 36.2% (14.6 million) of the economically active population
and contributing about 12% of the total GDP and 56% of total export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest
producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. Other
major agricultural exports include meat and fish products, cotton, corn,
peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. Brazil is largely self-sufficient
in basic food production, except for wheat. From 1970-74, the average
annual agricultural growth rate was 6.9%. Until 1978, the value of agri-
cultural production cc itinued to grow, although at a lower rate than that of
the industrial sector or the GDP as a whole. In 1978, agricultural output
declined by 2%, largely as a result of a severe drought in the South. In 1979,
the agricultural sector showed a 3.5% growth rate, compared to 6.5% for the
industrial sector and 6% for the economy as a whole.
31.       Despite productivity gains, expanded production areas, and
increased market integration, much of the sector, especially in the North,
Northeast, and Center-West, continues to employ traditional agricultural
practices and rudimentary technology. Constraints on increased agricultural
production, particularly for small farmers, include: limited access to
institutional credit, extension, and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate
supporting services and infrastructure for marketing, storage, and transport;
uncertain land tenure and a highly uneven land distribution; and the absence
of a stable price policy to provide incentives for agricultural producers.
Agricultural Development Policy
32.       In recent years, growth in agricultural production has owed
more to expansion of cultivated land than to improved productivity. However,
the Government is now taking measures aimed at a more efficient exploitation
of Brazil's agricultural potential, and agricultural development has been
assigned a high priority in Brazil's Third National Development Plan
(1980-84). Major policy objectives include: (a) the increase of basic staple
and export production, especially by small and medium producers; (b) the
improvement of production, storage, transport and marketing systems; (c) the
expansion of agricultural research and extension activities; and (d) the
decentralization of agricultural policy execution, and the increase of
participation by the private sector and state and local governments. Govern-
ment measures aimed at stimulating agricultural production and raising rural



- 9 -
incomes, particularly among small producers, include: (a) the strengthening
of the research and extension services with a new emphasis on the needs of
small farmers; (b) the support of special regional programs, such as
POLONORDESTE in the Northeast or POLONOROESTE in the Northwest, that focus on
poorer regions and small-scale farmers and/or the incorporation of new areas
into production; and (c) the announcement in May 1979 of a series of actions
which included increased access to institutional credit. The high cost of
petroleum imports has had an important impact on recent Government agri-
cultural policy. The Government has given strong support to a large-scale
alcohol production program demanding increased cultivation of sugarcane.
33.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been
the practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at subsidized
interest rates. With the continuing high rate of inflation, these rates are
negative in real terms. The subsidies were originally introduced some years
ago as a means of compensating the agricultural sector for the adverse terms
of trade resulting from high prices for fertilizer, machinery, and other in-
puts. They were also intended to provide incentives for the expansion of
agricultural production and to give special assistance to disadvantaged groups.
Since the main agricultural credit institution, Banco do Brasil (BB), is able
to extend subsidized credit by virtue of large interest-free deposits which
public agencies place with it, and the Government maintains various special
agricultural credit financing lines, much of the financial burden of the
subsidies is borne by the public sector as a whole, rather than by individual
financial institutions. The system has a number of potential disadvantages,
including: credit deviations from the agricultural sector to other sectors;
the extension of subsidized credit to large farmers; the encouragement of unduly
capital intensive techniques in larger agricultural enterprises; and the high
costs of administering a complex web of credit regulations.
34.       The Government is well aware of the system's drawbacks and in
December 1979, took a significant first step toward the gradual elimination
of subsidies for most types of agricultural credit by partially linking
interest rates to the rate of inflation. An exception to this is credit
granted under special programs, such as the POLONORDESTE program in the
Northeast, where political and welfare considerations have been constraints
on reducing subsidies. Although they remain negative in real terms, interest
rates for the proposed project are subject to the new system and consequently
have almost doubled in nominal terms since December 1979. Furthermore, the
possible adverse effects of subsidized credit are substantially reduced in
Bank-assisted rural development projects, including the proposed project,
because the individual programs of the small farmer beneficiaries, many of
whom are below the poverty level, are closely supervised to ensure that the
credit is utilized for the intended purposes.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
35.       The Bank has made 18 loans, totalling US$625.7 million, for agricul-
ture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$125.3 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million, for live-
stock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for US$40
million for agricultural research; one for US$100 million to improve agricul-
tural extension services; and eleven, totalling US$281.7 million for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, nine of which are
located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans, totalling



- 10 -
US$196 million for fertilizer production, a loan of US$19 million for a nutrition
research and development project, and two loans totalling US$165 million for
secondary and feeder road projects, which are having a direct impact on agri-
cultural production and rural development. The proposed loan would be the
eighth loan made for an integrated rural development project  ._ Brazil.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was prepared by the Fundacao Joao Pinheiro, a State
planning foundation, in close cooperation with the staff of the participating
agencies and the Bank. A Bank identification mission visited Brazil in
April 1979, followed by several preparation missions. The project was
appraised in January 1980 (Annex 3). Preparation of the project benefited
substantially from experiences obtained during the implementation of the first
Minas Gerais Rural Development Project (Loan 1362-BR) and other Bank-assisted
Brazilian rural development projects. Negotiations took place in Washington
from May 12 to May 16, 1980. The Brazilian delegation was led by Dr. Paulo
Roberto Haddad, Secretary of Planning for the State of Minas Gerais. A report
titled "Staff Appraisal Report, Brazil, Minas Gerais Second Rural Development
Project" (No. 2924-BR dated May 30, 1980) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
The State and the Project Area
37.       Minrs Gerais is the sixth largest state in Brazil, with an area
of 587,170 km and a population of about 13 million, of which 37% is rural.
Belo Horizonte, the State capital, is Brazil's third largest city, with a
population of over 3 million. The State possesses a rich natural resource
base which has favored mining, industrial, and agricultural development.
Agriculture contributes about 14% of the total value of goods and services
produced in the State. In recent years, the State has emphasized rural
development programs to stimulate agricultural development and decrease
rural migration. To date, the Bank-financed Minas Gerais Rural Development
Project, initiated in 1977 in the Zona de Mata area, is the State's most
comprehensive effort aimed specifically at improving the socio-economic
conditions of the rural poor.
38.       The region in which the project area is located covers the entire
eastern portion of the State, and comprises almost 50% of State area and 61%
of its population. Within this region, 102 municipalities were selected
out of some 518 on the basis of agricultural potential and small farmer
concentration. These 102 municipalities, constituting the project area,
have 942,900 inhabitants, of which about 70% is rural, and an area of some
61,000 km . The project area is ecologically diverse, ranging from the dry
prairielands (cerrado) of the North to the more humid, hilly lands of the South,
with floodplains (varzeas) scattered throughout the area. Mean annual rainfall
varies between 550 mm and 2,000 mm. The dry season ranges from 3 to 7 months.
39.       The project area contains 13% of Minas Gerais' rural population.
Rural population is steadily decreasing, indicating a substantial migration
to urban centers, mainly outside the project area. Agriculture remains the
chief economic activity, employing about 75% of the economically active
population. Only 8% are employed by the industrial sector, which is mainly



- 11 -
limited to cottage industries and other small enterprises. Average annual
per capita income in the area's industry and service sectors is roughly
estimated at US$600; for small farmers the estimate is about US$200, consid-
erably below the Brazilian rural relative poverty level (US$330). Educational
and health services are generally weak. Only 70% of school age children attend
school, and the literacy rate is low. Infant mortality is high (100 per 1,000),
and malnutrition is widespread. Chagas disease (South American trypanosomiasis)
affects 19% of the population, contributing to the low life expectancy of 44 years.
Water supply and sanitation facilities are lacking in 85% to 90% of all homes,
and only 3% of the houses in rural areas have electricity. One-quarter of the
project municipalities are not adequately linked up to the federal and state
road system. The municipal road network of about 20,000 km is poorly maintained.
Many of the 620 rural communities in the project area are isolated, with only
farm tracks connecting them to the municipal roads.
40.       Although the project municipalities are located in the most important
agricultural region of the State, they only produce about 8% of the State's
agricultural production. Low production levels are chiefly the result of
inadequate infrastructure, public services, and farm technology. About
12% of the project area is in temporary crops, 2% in permanent crops, 60% in
pasture, 8% under forest, and 18% fallow or not utilized. About 0.1% of the
cultivated land is irrigated. The traditional crops of beans, maize, and
manioc, often interplanted, cover 63% of the cropped area. Rice, sugarcane,
and cotton are important commercial crops. Most small farmers have some
livestock, particularly pigs, to supplement cropping activities, while
livestock production is the principal activity on the larger farms. These
larger farms (above 100 ha), which account for 8% of the total number of
farms, incorporate 59% of all project area farmland. About 16% of all farms
and 5% of the farmland is cultivated under some form of rental or share-
cropping arrangement. Agricultural extension services have been mainly
credit-oriented and directed toward larger farmers, except in the Zona de
Mata area where the first Minas Gerais Rural Development Project has brought
about substantial changes. The State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company (EMATER-MG) has offices in 24 of the 102 proposed project munici-
palities. Currently, public marketing services do not reach small farmers
effectively, and private intermediaries remain the major link between farmers
and markets.
Project Objectives and Strategy
41.       The proposed project would support the State's effort to assist
rural poverty areas. Project objectives include: (a) increased production
and productivity in small agricultural and non-farm enterprises; (b) increased
rural per capita income levels and employment opportunities, improved income
distribution, and decreased rural-urban migration; (c) improved physical and
social infrastructure and living conditions; (d) improved institutional
capabilities in project execution, monitoring, and evaluation; and (e)
increased local participation in project implementation.
42.       The project would concentrate on selected "development pockets",
102 municipalities, which have the highest concentration of small, low-
income producers in the region. Taking advantage of the area's development
potential, a broad range of project activities would be directed toward
specific target groups of low-income small farmers and non-farm entrepreneurs
within the development pockets. It is expected that project activities would
have a strong demonstration effect on surrounding areas and would therefore



- 12 -
serve as a catalyst for increased rural development efforts throughout the
region and, eventually, throughout the state. Concurrently, the project's
emphasis on institution building would improve the general effectiveness,
coordination, and implementation capabilities of the participating agencies.
43.       The proposed project would build on the experience of the Bank's
first rural AFvelopment project in Minas Gerais. That project, initiated in
1977, has the objective of assisting 25,500 small farmers in the Zona de Mata
area and includes rural credit, agricultural support services, and social and
physical infrastructure investments. The project is expected to be completed
on schedule (December 31, 1981), and is substantially achieving its objectives.
The proposed second project would be implemented over a much wider area of the
state than the first. It would include a second phase program in part of the
Zona da Mata which is being assisted under the first loan (see para. 65). The
experiences of the first project have been useful in preparing the second,
particularly in selecting project components, safeguarding against initial
project implementation difficulties, and integrating project activities. The
first project did not include marketing and feeder road components. The lack
of adequate feeder roads has, in some cases limited the full participation of
isolated communities, and the lack of proper marketing services has reduced
the impact of efforts to actively involve farmers' communities and farmer
groups in the development process. The proposed project would include selected
feeder road and marketing investments and provide for a pilot community
development component. Some initial difficulties in project implementation
during the first project were experienced due to the lack of participation of
operational personnel in project preparation. The proposed project has
involved a cross-section of personnel from the participating agencies in
project preparation. finally, the first project highlighted the need for
better integration within and between the executing agencies. During project
preparation, special attention was given to institution-building, the internal
information systems of the agencies, and interagency cooperation. Features
such as formal agreements regulating interagency cooperation and an administra-
tive system for the community centers to be used by various participating
agencies, would strengthen these aspects of the proposed project.
Project Components
44.       Agricultural Credit.  Medium- and long-term credit for the establish-
ment of permanent crops, improvements in on-farm installations, pasture
improvements, livestock purchases, reforestation, and land reclamation would
be financed by the project. In addition, the State would finance or make the
necessary arrangements for the financing of incremental short-term credit for
annual crops and the establishment of permanent crops (Section 4.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). General agricultural credit would be provided to
approximately 30,000 small farmers who derive more than 50% of total family
income from agricultural activities and who have less than 100 ha, except in
the southern portion of the project area (Zona de Mata and Sul de Minas),
where the latter limit would be 50 ha. In those areas, farmers with more than
50 ha generally have access to normal credit channels. For reforestation, the
credit limit would uniformly be 100 ha throughout the project area. Total
individual indebtedness would not exceed 100 MVR,1I/ except for farmers also
accepting credit for land reclamation, charcoal production, or electrification.
1/   The MVR (maior valor de referencia) is a standard unit of value, which
is adjusted periodically by the cumulative index of monetary correction
for the previous 12 months. One MVR equals Cr$1,962.20 or US$46.35
(January 1, 1980).



- 13 -
The total limit in those cases would be 180 MVR (Section 1.02(w-x) and
Schedule 7, para. 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Project credit terms and
conditions would be those established by the Government for standard rural
credit lines. _/ Given Brazil's current inflation rate (83.8% from
March 1979 to March 1980), rural credit interest rates would remain sub-
stantially negative in real terms. However, as noted in paragraph 34, the
Government in December 1979, initiated steps toward the gradual reduction
in interest rate subsidies. Furthermore, potential resource misallocation
is limited by the fact that credit for project beneficiaries, small farmers
below the relative poverty level, would be closely supervised through the
project's extension and monitoring activities. The Bank would be promptly
notified of any changes in lending terms or conditions (Section 3.05(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The State would promote the establishment within
the first two years of 20 new bank posts in the project area. (Section 3.05(d)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Receipt by the Bank of satisfactory agreements
between the State and the financial agents, ensuring the latter's collaboration
in project execution, would be a disbursement condition for the credit compo-
nents (Schedule 1, para. 3(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Additional financial
agents would be included only with prior Bank approval (Section 1.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Rural Electrification Credit.  The project would provide rural electric
service in 32 project area municipalities to an estimated 5,500 farms. The
electrification credit, which would finance branch lines, house connections,
and metering equipment, would be granted to beneficiaries under the same terms
and conditions stipulated for agricultural investment credit. The required
additional trunk lines, representing 40% of total network costs, would be
financed by the State Government. Funds for the timely construction of these
trunk lines would be made available to the executing agencies, the Centrais
Eletricas de Minas Gerais (CEMIG) and the Departamento de Aguas e Energia
Eletrica (DAE) (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The average costs
per km of distribution line (including trunk and branch lines) would not exceed
US$3,400, and the average cost per KVA of transformer and meter installations
would not exceed US$100, except with prior Bank approval (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that revenues would eventually fully
cover operation and maintenance costs.
46.       Land Titling.  The project would provide land titles to about 9,000
small farmers, thereby improving security of tenure and access to institutio-
nal credit. The executing agency, the Rural Development Foundation of Minas
Gerais (RURALMINAS), would conduct a promotional campaign during the first
year. Salaries of incremental staff, cars, equipment and materials for land
surveying and document preparation, and the costs of legal procedures and
advice, would be financed. Beneficiaries would be charged a nominal fee
for the project's land titling services.
47.       Extension.  The project would expand extension services in the 78
project area municipalities which now receive either no or minimal service.
Extension staff would carry out agricultural and social extension and partici-
pate in project-related land reclamation, cooperative, community development,
1/   The investment credit interest rate for 1980 is subject to partial mone-
tary correction (50% of the Government's 1979 index (47.19%) used for
correcting adjustable treasury bonds (ORTN)), plus a flat rate of 5%.
The effective interest rate in 1980 is 29% for investment credit. For
short-term seasonal credit not financed by the project, the effective
interest rate in 1980 is 24%.



- 14 -
and marketing activities. The project would finance: (a) the project period
salaries and operating costs for the increase in agricultural extension staff
from 43 to 143, the increase in social extension staff from 13 to 93 and
the establishment of a permanent staff of marketing and land reclamation
specialists; (b) improved communication services with local extension offices;
(c) the establishment of 18 new local offices; (d) training for extensionists
and farm families; and (e) vehicles. EMATER-MG, the executing agency, would
utilize a group approach as much as possible, to reach 30,000 small farmers
and their families. All of the new extension officers would be employed
and trained by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Research.  Crop and livestock, farm management, agro-forestry,
and marketing research, executed by the State Agricultural Research Institute
(EPAMIG), would be oriented toward the needs of project area small farmers.
At least 400 experiments and demonstration plots would be undertaken annually,
with at least 50% at the farm level. The project would finance vehicles,
equipment, salaries of incremental staff and other incremental operating
expenses, consultancies, and the publication of research results. The prepara-
tion of a detailed annual experiment and demonstration program would be done
in consultation with EMATER-MG. Project research results would be annually
published in one of EPAMIG's monthly bulletins (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). EPAMIG would cooperate closely with the State Forestry Institute
(IEF) in agro-forestry experiments aimed at reducing the unproductive period
of reforestation for small farmers. On-farm storage research would be con-
ducted in cooperation with the Federal University of Vicosa (UFV), and marketing
research, in cooperation with EMATER-MG, the State Agricultural Trade Company
(CAMIG), and the Project Coordination Unit. The appointment of a full-time
farm management specialist to the project research staff would be a condition
of disbursement against expenses made under the research component (Schedule 1,
para. 3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Land Reclamation.  The project would reinforce the State's capacity
to assist farmers in developing appropriate systems for the reclamation and
cultivation of 6,000 ha of swampland. The project would assist some 1,800
farmers. The executing agency would be the land reclamation subsidiary of
RURALMINAS. The project would finance additional reclamation equipment,
the establishment and certain initial operating costs for four new regional
offices, the salaries of incremental technical assistance and planning
personnel, and consultant services. All equipment financed would be for
exclusive use in the project area during the project implementation period
(Section 3.19(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Three consultants would be
employed by June 30, 1981, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to
assist RURALMINAS in establishing or improving its cost accounting and preven-
tive equipment maintenance systems and its general operating procedures.
The consultants' reports and proposals would be sent to the Bank for comment
as soon as they become available, but not later than January 1, 1982 (Sections
3.02 and 3.09(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In the past, the pioneering
nature of RURALMINAS land reclamation work forced the State to assume unex-
pected additional costs and to grant some farmers subsidies on an ad hoc
basis. In addition, charges to farmers for land reclamation services have
been subsidized. Under the project, RURALMINAS would establish a system by
December 31, 1980 to eliminate unprogrammed subsidies and would apply tariffs
reflecting full machinery operating costs, replacement costs and reasonable
administration costs related to on-farm investment by June 30, 1983 (Section
3.09(a-b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
50.       Reforestation.  The project would develop wood and charcoal product-
ion on small farms. About 10,000 ha on 4,100 farms would be reforested, and
300 ha for agro-forestry experiments would be established by the IEF in coope-
ration with EPAMIG. The project would finance the establishment of nine new
nurseries, seedling production in 21 nurseries, the establishment of 13 IEF
local technical assistance offices, and the salaries of 15 new forestry field
workers. At least seven of the new nurseries would be established by June
30, 1981, and project reforestation assistance would be limited to 10 ha per
farmer (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would provide
technical assistance to the beneficiaries and free seedlings, fertilizers, and
insecticides for the first two planting years. The farmers would contribute
labor, fencing costs, and possibly, charcoal ovens. Project agricultural
credit would be available to help finance these expenses.
51.       Marketing.  To help create a more integrated marketing system
benefiting small farmers within the project area, the project would: (a)
expand agricultural input sales activities and provide for the the construc-
tion of about twenty input supply outlets; (b) provide for the construction of
20 to 25 public storage facilities; (c) establish a permanent marketing re-
search group; and (d) provide marketing training for project personnel.
Incremental salaries, some operating costs, studies, vehicles, and equipment
would be financed. Other project components would reinforce marketing activi-
ties, including research and credit for on-farm storage improvement and
marketing extension services.  Project marketing activities would be carried
out by several agencies: CAMIG (input supply and storage operation); EPAMIG
(research); EMATER-MG (extension); SUDECOOP (extension in cooperatives);
CASEMG (storage construction); and UFV (training). Overall control would be
the responsibility of a marketing coordinator in the Project Coordination
Unit. General policy guidance would be provided by a special marketing
commission, composed of the presidents of the involved agencies and the State
Secre!tary of Agriculture.
52.       Two full-time consultants would strengthen CAMIG's organization and
assist it in the preparation of a detailed program of investments for storage
and input supply facilities. The employment of CAMIG counterparts for the
consultants would be a condition of disbursement for the component (Schedule
1, para. 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In a complementary effort, EPAMIG
would undertake a survey during the first year to complete the information
about current marketing problems and opportunities for the area's small
farmers. The CAMIG investment program and the results of EPAMIG's study would
be forwarded to the Bank for review by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.11 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements against expenses made for off-farm
storage facilities and input supply outlets would be contingent upon Bank
approval of location and construction plans (Schedule 1, para. 3(d) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Any public storage facility of 3,000 tons or larger,
identified as necessary by the first-year study and the consultant findings,
would be constructed with state resources, outside the project (Section 4.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Assistance to Cooperative Societies.  The project would increase
cooperative membership from 2,400 to 6,000, and assist 120 pre-cooperatives
and 350 groups at the community level. SUDECOOP, working in cooperation with
EMATER-MG, would be the executing agency. Technical assistance would be made
available to seven existing cooperatives and about eight new cooperatives.
The project would finance the establishment of three regional SUDECOOP offices;



- 16 -
incremental staff and related operating costs; vehicles; and training programs
for cooperative members and officials, farmers and technicians of other
executing agencies. Managerial assistance for each cooperative would be
financed by the project, starting with 100% in the first year and thereafter
decreasing annually by 20%. Each assisted cooperative would be evaluated
annually by SUDECOOP to determine whether continued assistance would be
justified.
54.       Assistance to Small Non-Farm Enterprises.  The component, to be
executed by the State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action (SETAS) would
improve the productivity and revenues of non-registered small non-farm
enterprises, each with less than ten employees, fixed assets below 300 MVR
(US$13,900), and annual sales below 800 MVR (US$27,800). The project would
(a) provide managerial and technical training to 1,100 nonregistered small
enterprises, 530 artisans, and 500 individuals who intend to start small
enterprises; (b) assist 950 enterprises in obtaining credit from existing
non-project credit lines; (c) strengthen the organization of SETAS, establish
eight technical assistance centers, and train 15 field workers; and (d)
provide for the study of improved technology and marketing opportunities.
Salaries of incremental SETAS staff and local subject specialists, incremental
operating costs, equipment, vehicles, and consultant studies would be financed
by the project. A small investment fund of US$300,000 would provide assistance
for marketing efforts based on the studies' recommendations. The studies'
results would be presented to the Bank by June 30, 1982, and the Bank would be
provided with satisfactory terms and conditions for the use of the investment
fund prior to its utilization (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The State would make available the necessary amount of credit, about US$2
million, for some 95) of the small enterprises (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
55.       Feeder Roads.  To improve year round accessibility to project
communities, the project would finance: (a) the improvement of about 3,360 km
of municipal roads and the construction of about 100 km of new access roads;
(b) the development of and the equipment for a municipal road maintenance
program; and (c) the training of road maintenance personnel. Project-financed
equipment would be for exclusive use in the project area (Section 3.19 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The State Highway Department (DER-MG) would be
the executing agency. Except where the nature or scale of road activities
would justify work in force account, road works would be awarded through
local competitive bidding procedures. The length of roads improved under
force account would not exceed 20% of the total length of feeder roads
included in the project (Section 3.13(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Before
initiating road construction work, DER-MG would conclude a contract with each
municipality to maintain the constructed roads adequately (Section 3.03(d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants would prepare engineering designs,
contract documents, and the municipal road maintenance program; supervise
construction; and assist in training. The appointment of counterpart staff
for the consultants would be a condition of disbursement for the feeder road
component (Schedule 1, para. 3(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). The State
would present the draft maintenance program to the Bank for comments by
June 30, 1981, and if necessary, it would make complementary funds available
for proper road maintenance at the beginning of each quarter, starting
from January 1, 1982 (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement). The State
would improve to BNDE (National Economic Development Bank) class E standards,
by June 30, 1983, an additional 486 km of feeder roads, linking up project



- 17 -
area municipalities to the state and federal highway network (Section 4.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). These works could be financed under the existing
Bank-financed Feeder Road Projects (Loans 1207-BR and 1730-BR).
56.       Rural Telephone Service.  To promote the efficient administration
of project activities and to improve area living conditions, the project
would install one public pay phone in each of 34 municipal centers where no
communication now exists with the rest of the State. The State Water and
Electric Energy Agency (DAE) would be the executing agent. The telephones
would be initially operated by the municipality, with subsequent transfer to
the State-owned telephone network (TELEMIG) for operation and maintenance.
57.       Education.  The project would improve primary and secondary educa-
tional facilities and services. This would include: (a) the development and
application of a revised primary school curriculum; (b) the training of
educational and supervisory personnel; (c) the construction materials,
equipment, and necessary training courses for school canteens and gardens;
(d) curriculum reform, additional construction, and equipment for one primary
and four secondary agricultural schools; and (e) the strengthening of project
administration. The Secretariat of Education (SEE) would be the executing
agent. The project would finance the salaries of incremental SEE support
staff and incremental operating expenses, including materials, equipment, and
vehicles. The State would furnish the results of the curriculum studies to the
Bank for comment, and the new curriculum would be implemented no later than
February 1, 1982. The costs associated with the provision of school meals in
the project schools are not included in project costs, but would be financed by
the state separately (Section 3.14 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Health.  The project would improve primary health services and con-
ditions in the project area by (a) strengthening the central and regional
health administration; (b) training or retraining about 1,000 health attend-
ants and 500 supervisory personnel; (c) constructing or improving 200 health
centers or posts; (d) equipping 90 health posts; (e) constructing 85 simple
village water supply systems and 8,000 sanitary installations; (f) carrying
out a Chagas-disease control experiment; and (g) establishing a detection
program for schistosomiasis-infected snails in swamplands to be reclaimed
under the project. The executing agency would be the Secretariat of Health
(SES). The project would finance construction costs, equipment, materials,
vehicles, training and retraining costs, the salaries of incremental SES
supervisory staff, and 18 months of salaries for about 200 new health atten-
dants. Construction would be initiated only after conclusion of a contract
between SES and the municipality regulating maintenance responsibilities
(Section 3.03(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). SES would appoint and maintain
sufficient personnel to execute the project and staff the health centers and
posts. The final plans to strengthen SES health administration would be
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.15(a-b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). SES would also supervise the construction of simple, mainly
standpipe, water supply systems. Prior Bank approval would be sought for
systems with construction costs exceeding US$120/family (Section 3.15(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Prior to construction, SES would conclude a
contract with either the municipality or DAE, depending on local conditions,
to operate and maintain the system and to collect user charges (Section
3.15(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). For house connections, this charge
would cover operation and maintenance costs, and for stand-pipe systems,
a symbolic monthly charge would be established and collected through community
associations.



- 18 -
59.       Community Centers.  The project would establish, with community
participation, community centers in 32 selected municipalities. The costs of
building site infrastructure, the basic construction of the center (school
rooms, health post, community meeting room and kitchen), and the basic equip-
ment for school rooms and health posts would be financed. The Project Coor-
dination Unit would supervise the construction of the centers, whereafter
SETAS would take over control of the administration. The final engineering
designs and cost estimates for models of four types of community centers would
be presented to the Bank for review before initiating construction work, but
not later than March 31, 1981. Construction plans for community centers
with costs exceeding US$150/m2 would be presented to the Bank for approval.
Disbursement against construction expenses would be contingent upon satisfac-
tory evidence of the acquisition of land and rights of way for the respective
building sites. The construction of the community centers would be completed
prior to December 31, 1983. (Section 3.16 and Schedule 1, para. 3(f) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Community Development.  The project would finance a community deve-
lopment pilot project in 21 municipalities to stimulate community activities
and self-help capabilities. SETAS would be the executing agency, working in
close cooperation with EMATER-MG. Consultant services, incremental salaries
and operating costs, vehicles, and a fund for community sub-projects would be
financed. The resources of this fund would be used on sub-projects which
could not be financed by other project components or other existing programs
or institutions. The funds would be used in a particular community only after
conclusion of a contract between SETAS and the community describing the
sub-project, its costs, and disbursements. By December 31, 1982, or after
disbursement of US$300,000, whichever comes first, the State would furnish the
Bank with an evaluation of the operational results of the fund before continu-
ing fund disbursements (Section 3.17 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Management.  The State Government has already created a Project
Management Council (PMC), consisting of the Secretaries of Planning, Finance,
Agriculture, Health, Education and Labor and Social Action. The State Secretary
of Planning would act as coordinator and council president, while the Secretariat
of Agriculture (SEA) would be responsible for the daily coordination of the
participating agencies' activities. The SEA would create a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Director, to administer the project. The PCU
would operate from a central office in Belo Horizonte and four regional
offices. The State would maintain an adequate and qualified staff in the
PCU's central and regional offices and would consult with the Bank should the
Project Director have to be replaced (Section 3.18 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The participating agencies would each appoint a full-time project component
manager.
62.       Quarterly monitoring reports would be prepared by the PCU and
distributed to the PMC, the involved institutions, the project component
managers, and the regional coordinators. Relevant information would be
received by the local officers of the participating agencies. Monitoring
reports would be made available to the Bank, and a Project Completion Report
would be prepared (Section 3.20(b-c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Project
evaluation would be carried out by an independent entity, the Federal University
of Vicosa (UFV). A qualified full-time agricultural economist, financed by
the project, would head the evaluation team. Baseline studies, annual eval-
uation reports, and a post-project evaluation would attempt to formulate



- 19 -
and measure project impact on the development of the project area and on the
target group. The baseline studies would be completed before January 31,
1981; the annual reports would be presented to the Bank by December 31 of each
year; and the ex-post evaluation would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after project completion (Section 3.20(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operating Agreements and Procedures
63.       Since the project covers a broad range of activities under diverse
circumstances, the timing and scope of activities would undoubtedly require
adjustments during project implementation. Each participating agency would
prepare an annual work plan.  These plans would be reviewed by the PCU and
presented to the PMC for approval. The project's work plan and budget would
be presented to the State Government by September 30 to secure adequate
funding in the State budget. The annual budget proposal and work plan would
be made available to the Bank for comment by October 31 of each year
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Because the project would require effective inter-institutional in-
tegration, a number of written agreements (convenios) would be entered into.
The State Government, through SEPLAN, would enter into an overall agreement
with SEA which would specify the project's administrative structure and SEA's
responsibilities and obligations as the project's coordinating agent. Sub-
sequently, SEPLAN and SEA would enter into a tripartite agreement with each
executing agency. With PCU assistance, agreements would also be concluded
between the executing and collaborating agencies. Prior to the construction
of civil works, the executing agencies would enter into agreements with
the involved municipalities and communities, assuring proper operation and
maintenance of the works. The State Government would enter into and maintain
all such agreements throughout the project implementation period (Section
3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Receipt by the Bank of satisfactory
signed tripartite agreements for a given component would be a condition of
disbursement for that component (Schedule 1, para. 3(h) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
65.       Full support of the first Bank-financed project, scheduled for
completion December 31, 1981, would be maintained. The State would ensure
that the obligations and responsibilities of project personnel within the
participating institutions and the two coordinating agencies (RURALMINAS for
the first project and SEA for the proposed second project) were clearly
defined. For each of the proposed project components, disbursements in the
Zona de Mata area would be conditioned by the satisfactory completion of the
corresponding component under the first project (Schedule 1, para. 3(g) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
66.       Total project cost over the five-year project period (July 1980 to
June 1985) is estimated at US$184.6 million. This includes US$5.4 million of
taxes, US$9.0 million of physical contingencies (6.8% of baseline costs), and
US$41.9 million of price contingencies (29.30% of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies). Baseline costs were calculated in cruzeiros at January 1980
prices with an exchange rate of US$1.00 = Cr$42.33.
67.       The proposed Bank loan of US$63 million equivalent to the State
of Minas Gerais would finance 35% of project cost net of taxes (34% of total



- 20 -
project cost), the balance being financed by the State and Federal Governments
and by project beneficiaries. To help finance its share of total project costs,
the State of Minas Gerais intends to secure by June 30, 1981 about US$50 mil-
lion from one or more external banks under co-financing arrangements (Recital
C and Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The amount and timing of
the proposed co-financing would be reviewed with the Bank, taking into considera-
tion the amount of counterpart funding required for the project, other internal
and external resources available to the State, and market conditions. The
usual co-financing links for the commercial bank financing with the proposed
Bank loan would be provided. The Bank loan would be for fifteen years, including
three years of grace. It would cover US$32.5 million of foreign exchange costs.
It seems reasonable for the Bank to finance a portion of local costs in order to
make a meaningful contribution to a project to which both state and federal govern-
ments attach high priority, because it is designed to improve the living conditions
of the rural poor by raising their productivity. Bank financing of part of
the local cost would also contribute to the mobilization of additional Brazilian
resources and the maintenance of a continuous commitment to the project. In
addition to the items totalling US$184.6 million included in the project, the
State of Minas Gerais and the Federal Government would finance essential
complementary activities such as secondary roads, electrification trunklines,
short-term agricultural credit, and small enterprise credit, at a cost of
US$46.2 million. The state and federal governments would ensure that adequate
counterpart funding would be available for the timely execution of the project
and the adequate operation and maintenance of facilities and services developed
under the project (Sections 3.01, 4.01, and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement
68.       Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers through local
trade channels. Vehicle, tractors, and other equipment (totaling US$1.0
million) would be procured in accordance with acceptable local procurement
and competitive bidding procedures. Equipment and tractors for land reclamation
and feeder roads (totaling US$8.8 million) would be procured under international
competitive bidding. Feeder road construction and improvement works (totaling
US$16 million) would be planned annually on the basis of previous field
surveys and divided in construction lots per municipality. The Bank would
review the construction standards, bidding, and contract documents before the
first round of bidding. Contracts for feeder road work and for civil works
required for community centers, health centers, health posts, storage facili-
ties and retail stores (totaling US$17.6 million) would be awarded to pre-
qualified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with procedures which are satisfactory. Since individual constru-
tion works would be of minor size and quite diverse, foreign contractors are
not expected to be interested, although they would not be excluded. Water supply
and sanitation works (US$2.3 million), the necessary works for Chagas control
(US$0.8 million), telephone communication (US$1.2 million), and 20% of the length
of feeder road improvement in areas where contract works would not be practical
(US$3.2 million) would be constructed under force account. Project financing
for rural electrification (US$16.4 million) would be in the form of numerous
small credits to individual farmers, who would purchase their connections from
CEMIG or DAE, which would install the connections under force account. Consul-
tancy services (US$4.8 million) would include about 100 worker-years (at an
average cost of US$3,800 per month). It is expected that most of the consultant
services could be found in Brazil, but expatriates would not be excluded
(Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Disbursements
69.       The proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate of 34% of project
expenditures for each component. Disbursements would be made through the
Ministry of Finance in Brasilia and the State Secretariat of Finance in Belo
Horizonte to the project coordinating fiscal agency, SEPLAN, against with-
drawal applications covering statements of expenditures initiated by the
executing agencies and certified by the PCU. Supporting documentation for
credit, salaries, administrative expenses and construction under force
account would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the PCU
and made available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision
missions. Documentation covering civil works, vehicles, equipment, and
consultancies would be submitted to the Bank. Such procedures have been
satisfactorily applied under the first Minas Gerais Development Project and
have enabled the determination of incremental costs. Disbursements are
expected to be made over five years. To ensure that project activities
and services would be effective during the 1980-81 agricultural year, up to
US$500,000 in retroactive financing for expenditures made after April 1,
1980, for certain key start-up activities (principally, initial studies
and the hiring of project personnel), would be provided (Schedule 1, para.
3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). For each component, except the credit and
management components, disbursements would be conditioned by the Bank's re-
ceipt of a satisfactory signed agreement between SEPLAN, SEA, and the corres-
ponding executing agency (Schedule 1, para. 3(h) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements for the credit components would be conditioned by the receipt
by the Bank of satisfactory agreements between the State and the financial
agents, assuring the latter's collaboration in project execution (Schedule
1, para 3(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for the construction
of community centers would be conditioned by the provision to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence concerning the acquisition of the respective sites
(Schedule 1, para. 3(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for the
upgrading of feeder roads would be conditioned by the appointment of and
actual assumption of duties by counterpart staff for the consultants (Schedule
1, para. 3(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for agricultural
research activities would be conditioned by the appointment of a farm-management
specialist to the project research staff (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Disbursements for the marketing component would be conditioned
by the appointment and actual assumption of duties by counterpart staff for
the consultants, and for the construction of storage facilities and input
supply outlets, by Bank approval of the location and construction plans
(Schedule 1, para. 3(c-d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for
each of the proposed project components in the Zona de Mata area would be
conditioned by the satisfactory completion of the corresponding component
under the first Minas Gerais Rural Development Project (Schedule 1, para. 3(g)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
70.       All participating agencies have an internal auditing system and also
are externally audited by the General Auditor of the State and the Government
Auditors of the Ministry of Finance. Both the BB and the State banks are
audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit. Each of the participating
agencies, including the PCU, would maintain separate accounts of project
expenditures. The PCU would consolidate project accounts, which would be
audited in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Audited
statements of the participating agencies', the banks', and the PCU's project
accounts would be kept at the PCU and made available for Bank supervision.



- 22 -
Copies of the project auditor's reports, including a separate opinion as to
whether the procedures and controls related to the use of statements of
expenditures were in accordance with the legal project requirements and
accurately prepared, would be made available to the Bank within six months
of the end of the State's fiscal year (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
71.       Total project costs (including contingencies) would amount to some
US$5,950 for each of the 31,000 families directly benefitting from the project.
However, many more would be benefitted indirectly, since agricultural and small
industries activities would generate employment and demonstration benefits beyond
the direct target group, and the physical infrastructure and social service
investments would also benefit a much larger group. It is expected that some
85,000 rural families would be direct or indirect beneficiaries of the project.
72.       The extent to which credit for on-farm project costs would be recov-
ered in real terms is difficult to estimate because of Brazil's continued high
rate of inflation and the Government's subsidized credit policy. A declining
inflation rate or a continuation of the gradual reduction in rural credit sub-
sidies (see para. 34) would result in a higher real cost recovery. Of the
estimated US$181.1 million of total off-farm Government costs associated with
the project (including contingencies, about US$27.9 million in incremental
staffing costs, and essential complementary investments such as electrification
trucklines not financed by the project), an estimated US$71.0 million (39%)
would be recuperated during the five-year implementation period through direct
and indirect user charges, beneficiary contributions, and additional revenues
realized from circulation (ICM) and social security (FUNRURAL) taxes applicable
to incremental project production. Following this period, additional recurrent
costs to the Government associated with the project, would decrease from US$3.2
million in the sixth year to US$1.0 million in the tenth year and beyond.
These expenses would be incurred principally for farm and small rural industry
extension services, but would also include continued operating costs for
the marketing component, the maintenance costs of feeder roads, and some
incremental staffing costs. These additional recurrent expenditures are
expected, however, to be completely offset by an estimated US$5.5 million in
user charges and incremental tax revenues, enabling Minas Gerais to fulfill
its commitment to continue to operate the services developed under the project.
Benefits
73.       The estimated annual value of incremental farm production with the
project at full development (year ten) would amount to some US$29.8 million
at January 1980 farmgate prices. This would include US16.7 million of crop
production, US$10.4 million of livestock production, and US$2.7 million of
forestry production. Incremental farm production would be the result of an
increased area under cultivation and increased productivity through better
agricultural and managerial practices supported by intensified extension and
research activities and an improved marketing system. Estimated production
increases are likely to be no less than 20% in non-farm enterprises and would
be the result of increased productivity due to managerial and technical
assistance, training, and credit.



- 23 -
74.       Based on illustrative farm models, the annual income of a typical
project farm family would be expected to rise above the Brazilian rural
relative poverty level (US$330 per capita), increasing from an average of
about US$1,000 to some US$2,200 over a ten-year period. The estimated
annual family income of the poorest project farmers, those cultivating less
than ten ha in the northeast of the project area (Jequitinhonha Valley),
although still below the relative poverty level, would increase from about
US$200 to US$450 per year. The estimated increase in annual family income of
those beneficiaries receiving assistance under the non-farm rural enterprise
component would vary according to the type of enterprise. According to
illustrative small enterprise models, the weighted average annual family
income would increase from about US$2,400 to US$5,475. For the slowest
growing enterprises, family income increases would still be at least 50%,
with incomes increasing from about US$1,800 to US$2,700 per year.
75.       Some 18,040 new jobs would be created as a result of project acti-
vities. New on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to an estimated
8,660 worker-years by the fifth year and 12,840 worker-years by the tenth
year would be generated. An estimated 1,000 ancillary jobs resulting from
increased agricultural production and 1,400 permanent jobs resulting from pro-
ject execution activities, would be created. The non-farm rural enterprises
would generate an estimated 2,800 new jobs at an investment cost of about
US$1,200 per job, well below alternative employment creation costs in industry.
76.       The project would have a beneficial environmental impact.  The cul-
tivated area, which would be increased under the project, would be improved
as a result of better farm management and the planting of additional tree crops.
This, along with the reforestation of about 10,000 ha, would result in improved
erosion control. The project would also provide for the control of schistoso-
miasis infection in swamplands to be reclaimed by the project, and it would
reduce the possibilities of water contamination by increasing the number of
sanitation facilities.
77.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 16%.  Invest-
ments made to improve living standards and conditions in the project area, such
as health services, social extension services, water supply, education, community
development, and community centers would have an important impact, but since
their direct benefits are not readily quantifiable, their costs have been
excluded from the rate of return calculation. Overall, about 79% of total
project costs (excluding contingencies) were included in the calculation.
This includes 100% of the project costs for land titling, agricultural research,
land reclamation, reforestation, marketing, cooperative development, non-
farm enterprises, feeder roads, rural electrification and telephone service;
80% of the project's administration and monitoring costs; 67% of the project's
rural extension service costs; and 60% of the project's evaluation costs.
Project benefits from incremental production were calculated utilizing border
prices where appropriate, adjusted for quality modifications and transport
costs. Labor was shadow-priced at 50% below market level, reflecting the
underutilization of labor during a significant portion of the year. Finally,
some assumed production increases among non-direct project beneficiaries were
included in the benefits to reflect the possible demonstration effect of such
project activities as agricultural extension and research and the beneficial
impact of improved roads, rural electrification, and communication systems.
The project's economic rate of return was not found to be particularly sensitive



- 24 -
to change in costs or benefits. With costs increased by 10%, the estimated
rate of return would be 15%; with the demonstration effects eliminated,
it would be 14%.
Project Risks
78.       The project's success would depend on the commitment of the execut-
ing staff at all levels of the participating agencies, since a large number
of activities, covering a wide area with variable ecological conditions, would
need to be implemented in a coordinated manner at the local, regional, and
central levels. The risk of inadequate inter-agency integration is lessened,
however, by the full involvement of the executing agencies' staff in project
preparation, the pre-project implementation of essential organizational mea-
sures, the strong line organization of the executing agencies, and the exper-
ience obtained by these agencies under the first Minas Gerais Rural Develop-
ment Project. Another risk, the absorption capacity of isolated municipali-
ties, would be minimized by the project's emphasis on adequate communication
systems and its fully integrated character. The benefits of raising the
living standards of about 85,000 families in the State's rural poverty areas
and of creating an institutional capability able to independently sustain the
rural development process make the project risks acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the State of Minas Gerais and the
Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special disbursement conditions are described in para. 69.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
BRAZIL - SOCIa  7INDCATORS DATA SUN r
IAZ..                       RUUtCC  CIOUPS (A TSTED A Ar.GS
LANED AREA (THOUSA! D SO. 7of.)                                                 - MosT UCElT  TSTLnATh
TOTAL            5512.0                                                     SANE         S6tE    .w=  tUZGOU
ACUCMLT1AL    2026.3                                     AT UCVAT         GDOGAPC        INCOME       u4COtz
190  /b    1970 A  ISTInT! /           88010K /:   sour/        G20UP /e
lNP PFE  CAPITA (USS)                  320.0        580.0    1570.0            1124.4     1942.6       3075.3
IQRGT CONSUIPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRMES OF COAL EQUIlVALf)        332.0       474.0      731.0            943.1      L646.7      2515.6
POPULATION AID VTA3L STATISTICS
POPULATION. HZ-MR  MILK5IONS)         71.5        95.2      116.1
5nAM POPIA2oil (PURCENT Of TOTAL)  S6.1            53.9      60.7.            59.3        51.2         72.1
POPO.&TIOtt P3OJl  OUS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MIL.IONS)                        200.0
STATION1ARY P3rAATION (L.0LI0S)                           361.0
MU  STATIONAY POPULSION I5 ILCM7D                        2075
POPULATION DENStY
PM SQ. m2(.                          8.0        11.0       14.0             23.3        28.2        33.5
PIZ sq. >. tGUCuc.TUR1L LAND         4.0        49.0       57.0       8      0.5       100.5    t     l.3
POPULATION 4G1 STUCrUR  (P!C75)
3-14 TRS.                           43.6        42.6       41.7             40.9        35...       33.3
15-64 TRB.                          53.8         56.3       55.1             54.4       56.3         57.5
65 IR5. AM  ABOVE                     2.6         3.1        3.2              3.9         5.1         5.7
POPULATION 010V9l RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0          2.9       2.9              2.4         1.7          2.1
DUAl                                 5.5          *.8       4.3              3.7         3.0
M0 31 TIRTH  nATE (PR THOUSAND)       40.0         38.0      36.0             32.8        27.5         31.4
CRUDE  EATR RATE (PER THOUSAND)       11.0          9.0       9.0              8.5         9.1          8.2
WSS  RZrAODUCTIION LATE                2.6          2.6       2.4              2.4         1.8          1.9
FAMILY PIAIIING
ACCEPTORS. AOUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        111.0     203.6
ZZENS (PERCT Of WA=D  tK )    ..                 1.6          .             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
aINEx or FOOD PRfDaUCTION
M CAPrTA (1969-71-100)              ss.6       102.0      120.0             99.4       102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY .O
CALClI7ES (PrCrzTr of
3EaIRDrTS)                       101.0       104.0      105.0            107.0       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (CGLAS ?   DAY)            61.0        64.0       62.1             60.4       UC.9         70.3
OI WECH A8tIAL AND3 PULSE         38.0        39.0       33.6             28.3        31.3
CaILD (AGZS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       .3.0         10.0       9.0              6.7         5.1          2.5
LIP!7 CETANT AT 37T  (TEARS)    57.0              61.0       62.0             63.6        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RAZr (PER
MOUSAND)                                ..          ..         ..             76.1        45. 5       20.8
ACCzSS DO SA    JATER (PERCWIT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         56.3      77.1             63.4       69.4         73.9
aRIAN                                 .          7. n.7    88.8             79.5       s5. 1        94 6
RUDRAL                                ..        29.0       56.8             38.6       43.0         64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PUCENT
OP POPULATION)
mOTAL                                 ..        59.9       64.8             58.8       70.1
BAN                                   .         86.1       63.7             77.8       88.3
AL                                    ..        26.5       31.7             24.5        33.2
POPULATION PER mPsIcAN              3600.0       1910.0    1650.0           1841.9      1343.2       981.8
PPULTATION P?  YPURSING FUSON           ..      3220.0         ..            933.7       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PUE ROSPIAL BED
TOTAL                              275.0       260.0      260.0            563.6       197.5       240.6
138AM                                 ..          ..         ..            279.4      260.2
RURAL                                 .            ..        ..           1140.9      1055.0
ADISSIONS PER  OSPITAL BED              ..        18.0         ..             25.7       17.3         19.2
aous; 
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1         4.d        S.9              5.0        4.7
CR3Xt                                            4. 6. fi    . 7             4.a        4             .*
RURAL                                            5.2        5.3              5.3        3.1
AVtLMACE NLUMER JIP DSONS ?P   OOM
ITAL                                   .         L.1        1.L/f            1.3         1.1
UR5AN                                             1. 0      1.2/f            1. 3        1.2          ..
RURAL                                 ..         1.2        1.2LL            L.5         1.2
ACCESS TO MLZC,tclCTT! ? T Cf
oF OWEL, UNGS)
-OTAL                               38.7        47.6       63.0             54.3       66.3
73AS                                  .         75.6       54.              30.        35.1i
RUUL                                 3:~~~~~~~~~~84 192.



ANNEX I
- 26 -NX 
Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A'ERAGIS
- MOST RECENT ESSIATE ) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
H^OST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /4    GROUP Is
IDUCATION
ADJISTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        83.0       87.7            107.3      101.7        107.6
1AL.E                97.0         83.0       0?             L09.1       110.0
FEMALE                93.0        83.0       S9.2            107.4       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        27.o       26.0             40.5       51.2         39.7
MALE                  11.0        27.0       2r.0             40.4        56.4
FEMALE                10.0         27.0      26.0             39.0        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.Oa            18.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACKE  RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0        28.0       27.0             37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                           13.0        13.0       15.0             17.9       25.3
ANDLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0        64.0       64.0             77.4       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        25.0       45.0             29.1       53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0        126.0      158.0            172.1      225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER TELOUSAND
POPULATION                          18.0        66.0      LOO.0            67.9       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0        37.0       39.0             76.1       78.5
CIEMA ANUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             L.9        2.6              4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)    22700.0       29400.0   34100.0
FEMAL  (PERCENT)                   17.5         20.4       21.6             21.5       24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6       42.0             30.2       28.9         23.d
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3       20.0            23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0        31.6       31.5             30.9       33.8         40.1
HALE                                  52.7        50.3       49.5             47.3       51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                11.2        12.8       13.6             13.3        16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.5       1.4              1.5         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCE-NT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED sY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF BOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..             23.7
HIGCHEST 20 PtRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0         63.5       62.0             58.7       57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2        2.8              2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0        9.4              9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A.BSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            265.6
RURAL                                 .           ..      150.0           185.1
ZSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      465.0            396.3      550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      332.0            308.1      403.4
ESTIMATED POPUJLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
iRBAN                                 .           ..         ..             35.2
RIRAI.                                ..          ..         ..             46.6
Not available
Yotc applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding che extreme
-values of che Indicator and cne most ,opulated country in each group. Coverage of countries among Che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless other-ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for most Recent Estimace, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Lacin Amer4ca S Caribbean;   /d  Jpper Xiddle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /e High Incme
(over $2500 per canica, 1976);   /f  1972;  Li  3eginning 1973, duration of general education reduced
from 7 to y years, therefore data may not be comparable to those of earlier 7yars.
Host Recent Estimate of GNP per capita Is for 1978.
August. 1979



-27-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORSPe 
NeU; The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicftore depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group a-erageo for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric ieans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hoopital beds
Agricultural - Moot recent estimate of agricultural area used tetporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital  nd re-
or perna.nently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mcdi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USf) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a nedical as-
calculted by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistent, nurse, midwife, etc-) which offer in-patient accomonodstion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited r-nge of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comnercial energy                       frum hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Aeae size of household (Persona Per household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-pear (illio_ s) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average o  two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.    Statistical definitions of house-
,Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average non-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persona per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. kh.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - tota1, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kmb  agriculture land - Computed aa above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population aae structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population arowth rate (Percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total end urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level an perrentagen of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yeors but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may anceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary inatructino; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average nsmber of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal oeproductive period if she eaperiences present age-                         excluded.
spec:ific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            lude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptor, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departmeets of secondary institutions.
acopt-ors of birtb-rontrol devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Familv planning - users (Percent of  -arried women) - Percentage of                          aponding level.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-cootrol                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) an
devices to all married women in sane age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population agad 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                     Pseseoger care (per thousand population) - Passenger cars conpriso rotor cars
capita annual production of all food co.omdities.                                       seating less than eight persons; exciudes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capIta supply of calories (percet of requirements)1 - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivaPei      of net foodsu.ppli.. available in country per capita             Radio receivers  (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Availabhe supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
espoet, and changes in stock.  Nt supplies escluds animal feed, seeds,                  receivers in countries and in years when rngiscrattin of radio sets v-a in
quantities used in food procesaing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparablo since most countries
quirement. were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
.al activity and health considering enviroumental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in efect.
Per capt2u supply of protein (groma per day) - Protein ronreor of per                    N-.stpa.r circulation (per thosanad population) - Shotn tho average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net nupply of fond is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grass                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a yeak.
of animal and pule protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Those standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cine.as and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average fur the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Srvey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding houseives, students., etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tion   in various countries are not co-parabl.
Female (percent) - Female labor force an percentane of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, foreutry, hunting and fishing
Life sxpertancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
cemaining at birth; usually five-yeer averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male  and female - Total, male, and
one ye.s  of age per thousand live birhts.                                                lemale labor force as perc-ntages of their respective populaticos.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflectig at e-eec
Number cf people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the populotion, ond long tie trend.
safe water supply finoludes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependency ratic - Ratio oE populatiot ardor 15 ard 65 and over to
unoonramicated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       tho labor force ian ag  group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percencate of private income (both in cash and kind) osceived by richest 5
soau-bl   access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 prtent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of householdes
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the faily's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acrecs to e-oreta disposal (Percent of Population) - total  urban, and                   Estimated absolute povertv intome level (US$ per capita) - urban and rota.  -
rural - Nuobec of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                         Absolute poverty income level is that intome level below shieS a nininal
dispcoal as percentages of their respective populations.   Emceta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal nay include tho collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human e.creta and saute-water by water-borne systems                     Estimted relative poverty inoe leel (10$ per cpita) -  rban_and rural
or th  ause of pit privies and sisilar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal iaoone of tho country.
physicians qualified from a medical echool at university level                         Estimated population below poverty incone level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicIng sale and fomale graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assiotact curses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Etononic Analysis and Projections Departtrnt



O4..C 0    .44                 '4       41 v~ 4Z.     NN N"O 'N   <
4141           CO  <       4.NN                C             -      -  ;> X_
41V                                          v04                                                                                                                                               0
cO N                                  .      4041           NN 4O4wN.V-V 1
_ -          vxri N   0-4Iv  1        N 0 c                   O C  ..    v-    
01 u             R0v.-'_                                            m        ,       c      sc      m sv 
.41   -  NNN4I-.~~~vON                         N                                            = _      N- 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    N 0                                    :                   0N o    
A   N0 .                                          N                                                               UU I
N4fl              <<<         .41                                                          N N1              _ NO_                                              = 
E14                                            410E  o  _.... 
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                         C
IN                                                   CN                                                                                             I      NO       OION
-o                   u               ,,             N C            =      =0'=_3                                           ~               
1 N                  ONN    e0 3. N                =1-              N NN N.N                0'    .10    Ir>oNxx.  =c u
NO Cv              ='                                                                              0C     NN   = C1 4OCC                                      t            , 
u      N                                            414                                    N uN >..o4w00'   1 ;Eu        +vC>X+  L                             e   
o 3                1 o4                                                                                      N      N    o91= 4cuE XtWCQC_M o  W                                   1     WC
u,              41           =141rW ,=SW 1Xc.~=zo,=f                                                       =@c vvX   ,_ucc9@w                                                    cu       E ,
O                4 2c41  UW~zli DXX> 0                          41,1,>f c  w~S~ I-



- 29 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                           Peg.  5
(million US$ *t current prices)
Population         122.7 million (.id-1979)
CNP Per Capita:  US01,633 (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                        PROJECTED
1970          1975           1976          1977           1978          19791k         1980          1981           1982           1983          1984
Balance of PaFmec.t
Nec et porte of goode -ad aervices                       -583        -6,702        -6,018         -4,037         -5,999         9,774        -11,610       -12,052        -10,476        -9,086         -6,672
Export- of goods                                    (2,739)        (8I670)      (10,128)       (12,120)      (12,659)       (15.244)       (23,192)      (25,075)       (29,715)      (35.503)       (42,361)
l       opott  of goods                             (2,537)       (12.210)      (12,383)       (12,023)      (13,683)       (17.961)       (22,126)      (26,256)       (28.871)      (31,883)       (34,9899
Net cren fore                                              21              2             1           _               72             17            30             40             50            50             50
Currant account balonco                                  _562        -6,700         -6,017        -4.037         -5 927          9,757       -11,580        -12.012       -10,429         -9,036        -6,622
Ditrc  privat  i-vnet. V&                                  92           892            959           810            906         2,200          1.100          1 145         1,200          1.242         1 300
M&LT lop naet                                             767         3,760          5.023         4,631          819           4,995          9,262         13,838        11,317         103437         8,576
Tradlfiorol source                                     (833)       (1,408)        (2,052)       (2,648)        (2,793)       (2,738)        (2,881)       (3,538)        (4,149)        (4,620)       (5,164)
FPnancial credits                                     (434)        (4.524)       (5,980)        (6,118)      (11,312)        (8,808)       (13,599)      (15,222)       (14,616)      (11,665)       (13,345)
Anonci-atio-                                          (-632)      (-2,172)      (-3,009)       (-4.135)       (-5,286)      (-6,551)       (-7,218)      (-7,922)       (-7,447)      (-5,648)       (-9,933)
irat-lio I nane abroad (set)                                           1 -197         -248          -267           -358          -596           -782        -1.096         -1,434        -1,890         -2 477
Other c.pitcl n-.i.                                       248         1,295          2,627           _507           440            -61          -
Charge ic rservoc  (-i-cre ese..                         -545           950         -2,344           -630        -3,880         3,219          2,000          1,125          -654           -753           -777
It,rvat.i.oal t.s.rve_4t                               1.142          3,988         6,488          7,192         11,826         8,966          6,966         5,841          6,495          7,243         3.025
Rtnerv e   o'th,  f in. P_ 5-/                              5.5            3.9           6.3            7.2          10.4            6.0           3.8            2.7            2.7           2.7            2.3
1974          1975           1976          1977           1978          1979
Gross Disburs-eet
Total gro,s disboreseet of MN7T inan                                  7,254         5,932          8,332         8,766         14,105         11,546_t
PubIio and  publicly  gooronteed                                    2,957         3,735          4,654         4,623         13.356
Officiul *nport credit                                             408           3 96            368            167           413
IB30                                                                247            250           173            299           275
Oihr  nultilaotral                                                  139            119           111             92           136
Priv-te.ource                                                     2,143         2,966          3,972         4,062          9,532
fi      non-gt naneed                                               4,317          2,201         3,408         4,146          3,749
Ectornul Debt
Total debt outscunding and disbursed                                 17,576         21,920        26,934         32,224        43,174        49.904/
Public and  publicly  guaranteed                                    9,394        12,323         15,851        19,218         27,223
Official soorco                                                   3,276         3,854          4,320         4,612          5,229
Obthr                                                          (2,4035       (2 761)        (3 ,03        (3 ,199)       (3 614)
Pnivutne ource                                                    6,118         8,474         11,531        14,636         21,994
yrlvucosouD-guorocteed                                              8,182         9,592         11433         13,006         15.951
Uodiebur-ad debt (public only)                                        2,524          2,330         3,446          4,004         4,535
Debc Sorvice
Tocal d bt  ervica psp.ente                                           5,290         4,035          5,100          6,597         8,623         11.812
Intre  t (grucs)                                                   (1,370)       (1,863)        (2,091)       (2,462)        (3,342)        (5.261)
Pay.ents   7. u o aporce bUS                                             38.8           43.0          47 2           5114          64.1           72.6
toy=eetaa  7%  f GcipNPa                                                  3.1            3.3          356             4.1           4.7            5.9
Avocage in. or.. t rate on vne  Iaus (7.)                                 10.6           9.0            9.8 3.3                      9.8
Official source                                                          7.0           7.8            7.9           8.0            7.7
Av,ragena,u-ity of         1 v  uns                                       10.9           8.7           10.2          10.1           1031
Ofticiul enurco                                                        14.6           1.4           16 3           16.6           14.1
yrtv-tne Stre                                                           9.7            5.9            7.0           9.0            9.6
IBD E0po1Sure
2310 030/total.D 3   (,)30                                                                5.3           4.5            4.4           3.7            3.6
135D diDbure..to e/tutal gross diabureeents (. )                           3.4           356            2.2            3.5           1.7            2.6
IbRD debt      i-/t1 debt tervie (7)                                       2.4            2,5           3.3            430           2.9            2.0
As . %of coccI dobrotendv
st end f June 1979
Debt Structure
maturity etruccure of debt out-tanding
Mutoriti-s due within 5 yeare                                                                               66.3
mtturitieo  dun vithin 10 yo-r.                                                                             92.6
1/ lotinato.
2/  EIcluding re-inve-tcd profitc.
5/  EOcluding dnll-r ualuattnn ad)utsests,
4/ E.cluding gold, ond including d1llur valuation adjusrte.ts.
S/ Gouds only.
6/  DStaile unovoiluble
April 25, 1930



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports               45.0           5.5
853   1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement      6.7            .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          13.0
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       42.3          13.7
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          23.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply        36.0           0.3
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          13.0
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0          17.9
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0         25.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          48.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          49.5
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0          11.5
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          24.0
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0           10.4
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   35.0            6.2
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          46.1
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0          29.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          50.0           1.3
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de           Power               49.0           8.9
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of April 30, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0          18.5
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          16.8
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0          23.0
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          38.9
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            20.4
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          47.6
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            55.0           8.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          27.9
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            14.1
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0          98.9
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            21.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         129.8
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0         109.1
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          65.6
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          74.2
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0            96.0
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            34.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          84.8
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            26.0
1720 /1 1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0         109.0
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         110.0
1822 /1 1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823 /1 1980  BNH                              Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824 /1 1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
Total                                             4,771.5 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 628.9
Total now outstanding                             4,142.6
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            42.6            3.2
Total now held by Bank                            4,139.4
Total undisbursed                                                2,239.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 32-                      ~ANNEX II
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESIHENTS  (as of April 30. 1980)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                      Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de tletricidade                      Electrical Equipment        2.00       -       2.00
1958               olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper              1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts            0.45       -       0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45       -        2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                      1.20       -       1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                        4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                          Fertilizers                8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals              5.50     2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1971               Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60     1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                        4.90      -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.97     7.50    84.47
1973               (apital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development               5.00       -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Des,nvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CLDEMIN, S.A.                                   Refining                  85.00     8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -       6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                   31.00      -       31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Blask                6.18     1.29      7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00      -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45      1.00     7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                   16.20       -      16.20
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -       20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0     10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                    Motor Vehicles            60.00      5.00    65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                           Ready-made Garments         2.00       -        2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                      Palm Oil                    3.50      1.00      4.50
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                  Iron and Steel              5.00       -       5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                 Chemicals and Petro-
Chemicals                15.00      2.00    17.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                              451.24    47.80   499.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                323.82     8.52   332.34
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    127.42      39.28   166.70
123.62     6.89   130.51
Total Undisbursed



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of April 30, 1980, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756        Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
tional allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
to about 240%. The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
to December 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Datc: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower will be permitted to draw down until June 30,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of April 30, 1980,
99% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date:  April 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.  Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector.
Substantial changes were made resulting in better management and
control of the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 and again in early 1980 has further delayed
project progress. Current cost estimates show an increase of at
least 80% over the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These
increases have resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the
costs of civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expro-
priation. Further adjustment in project composition is being
considered in view of the 1979 and 1980 floods. The closing date
has been postponed to December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is completed. The technical assistance
program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing,
and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's financial
position, however, continues to remain extremely weak. Active
consideration is being given to ways in which this situation can
be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services, seed
production, and inland fisheries.  A serious drought in 1979,
coupled with delays in the release of funds, has slowed down the
implementation of Phase II. The closing date for this loan was
postponed to September 30, 1982 to allow disbursements to coordinate
effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million. The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fourteen sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. One additional sub-project is presently
under consideration by the Bank. Construction is underway in
three states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, Goias, and Mato Grosso do Sul.
Fourteen percent of the physical work foreseen under the project,
about 1,000 kms, is now completed.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980. An amount of US$3.0
million of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of
the Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related
expenditures.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Field tests of nutrition delivery systems
are proceeding reasonably well. After initial delays, food techno-
logy research, manpower training, and special studies have become
fully operational. However, the overall performance of this project
has been unsatisfactory. Discussions are underway with the Govern-
ment aimed at improving the performance under this project.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the continuing existence of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this
loan unusable. The Government is expected to request cancellation
of the uncommitted balance of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
October 1, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution. US$27.0 million of the loan proceeds
has been cancelled at the request of the Borrower since the cost
for equipment was much less than originally anticipated, and the
funds could not be used for other appropriate project-related
expenditures.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers is proceeding within cost estimates
but about one year behind schedule. Administrative problems which
have contributed to delays in the rural training component are being
resolved, but the hotel training component continues to encounter
implementation difficulties. The technical assistance program is
underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to agricul-
tural mechanization and cooperative societies organization are
progressing at a slower than expected rate. The recent establish-
ment of a land agency in Ceara has enabled the land purchase credit
component to get underway.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed before
the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project implementation has slowed down due to funding delays. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants. The health and water supply
components are suffering from planning and training weaknesses.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
Mtay 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of MIay 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



- 41 -
A.NNE- II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during 1979. Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved by 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the components, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date; February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. All components are in the early stages of
implementation.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
Jure 20, 1979; Effective Date:  November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 millon loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The first sub-project has been approved by the Bank. It will
benefit the Northeast state of Pernambuco. Nineteen other sub-
project applications have been received by the National Development
Bank (BNDE). Twelve of these are at an advanced stage of prepara-
tion, and are presently under evaluation by BNDE. It is expected
that they will be submitted to the Bank soon.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   Approximately 10 months
April 1979 - January 1980
(b)  Project prepared by:               Fundacao Joao Pinhiero
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  April 1979
(d)  First Bank mission to consider
the project:                       April 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  January 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:        May 1980
(f)  Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:                 October 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  A system to eliminate unprogrammed subsidies for land reclamation to
be established by December 31, 1980, with tariffs reflecting full
machinery replacement costs, operating costs, and reasonable admin-
istration costs related to on-farm investment applied no later than
June 30, 1983 (para. 49).
(b)  The final plans to strengthen the SES health administration to be
furnished to the Bank before December 31, 1980 (para. 58).
(c)  State Government to finance and construct 486 km of secondary roads,
complementary to the project's feeder roads, by June 30, 1983
(para. 55).



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
(d) State Government to present to the Bank for comment the draft
road maintenance program by June 30, 1981 and to make available
complementary funds for proper road maintenance at the beginning
of each quarter from January 1, 1982 (para. 55).
(e) State Government to provide the Bank with a mid-term evaluation of
the operational results of the community development fund before
continuing disbursements from it (para. 60).
(f) State Government to obtain external co-financing for about
US$50 million by June 30, 1981 (para. 67).



IBRD 14954
445                                    7h  sucsa,tmb,    TSoubudcc        42-                                                     Thi s sp hs  -terp -d bS         OVPMRZUL4 n                                                           MARCH 1980
-h rn,,acn  ed -ds en,
4800 (/_   t aB   A   H   I  A                                                             d.r -t-o, " sI this ay
W-nd snk and its,Oz afihte  coy
Pudg-ent n the iago St   Ri
any I rot-ycreyedn--sen
ToSo Joncso doVPoraii/A                                                                                                                                          - Vm>i-
)v9  1  g /~ 2~   /J  -JG(AI                                         AT BAR A  Z L
Rio Po IP"'-oi   X xcx  Sa/iFu~OOFrdneSscoo       Padr rSito                                     d2io (h                    SD    RURAL                       E    E O M           N       PO JEC
cinaO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acnoqlR
So-nto Antono H  I                                                                              - SStRo IouAory
nt                                                                                                                         do J/icinto                                                                                                     boundariesNovos   s\ >s  Fro  t-oreas
g   @   ^   \  ltalpe        >                    (.^                                                       Poved~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ges
8erdo                                                                                                    M~~~~~~~~~~~AINAS  G7ERAIS
3  c ad                       p.d,. P-is.                                                              ~~~~~SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
f;o Pregor_, _a                                                                                                                                                                                SUBREGIONS I AND T-
|/   27   J  Gen.MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po1ec <-4t a  or : leos
ncis N-s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                      Muiia
elinh.                                                                                          R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----  Raiods
-l8-  zY   - -      rl       g;    Itamren Ibc   fy                               .2   BeOfilotonl            ,                        i-\                                    3     B  t u   cirill',
Sen, Modestin        ,                                                                                                   To .Oo/o1-d-              7=        Stoe caia
6filoOloni~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0   CitC,ies and towns
Builnrip greg
fA/ ./ Febsberto9, l          d A  \t5ethCtosdos    R   | r   /,  %  \  /  Subregloi bouedar,es
Metropolitacn boundary of Belo Horizonte
State bo-ndaries
, M.on se eiro    t         J      J                     A'                            }1                      i                                                    s )                   IIJ  Up grading of a g ri c ubu ro l schools
1,t  CoJsnunity developrent pilot projects
*Health pasts
A   Com-unty cent-r
q~~~~~errador                                                             T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ New  loca  oFfices for rural estresione services
o   Centers for technical as-ist-ece to small mon-f     enterprises
N-f                                                                                                                      k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Local reefer for reforestation
0    Rugianal center for laind recamtio
r                  '       R        T    -'                              Regional cete  for, coopercti-e ossistonca
E    S       P    R    I  T    O                      D-tcnetoirRegionO I office of project 0dm nistration
(4800i Existing grain storage capacity  (ie tuns)
cC   foisting bank ogencoes
*    Municipalities with  ural electrification works
ora- 9\                   S.S.b-t,5       0 ErssabemW             < ASh lI    y         /  Alvaren                                 )           S        A  N     T     O                                   Municipal ties uth  telephone works
e; E LO\  b    z                                              /            I            ?             /       J                          So vt,c-ou        7ATANT/C                              Kl SOMETFRS n  10 20 30 4o  50 60 70 80  0o too
To-dZON                                                                                |                                                                                      CAN              |MILES o    10   20   30   40   50   60
-20'            ,        o_                                                        ToM_-' 4I2' . e      4    h                                                         41'020'






IBRD 14694
Tpaaiddrvea ahOa, ,s paap0On          4                    -                                              X        TP'aa-                   9 /i00aaa                                      o )           T                                 -na.1                           MARCH 5900
ud2men!UrithelegalsaIusof   %\             /S    CasceoOaO2raPa,             ;;               0HR             f       N       E                                                        ;aovaa. aCOt92 W                              v 
a,  r  4LrdOo                                                                  Ost /000 at  Naa                  4B;I                                                                    0                                                                                 ,
< ss5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--,sO4 oa. d/ P.W0gW#
0400 5,55  tt ito                                                           G .  .   P-
Ped,            .e~ttod  cr                                                                                                        Manh ~.                                     Bc 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Ind                                               . <-Sa  ., . OVe.                                                                                                                                       B         vo    *f Ro J    I  E   Y7      lwSGRISL
onte NTova                                       cScibr ,7 M                               e  _ oANTOL
,t6l"                                                                                         Cons.                                       P.,I      An-FA IVdodus                                                     chR5  /
<   C are o          T    L              _ > 0g             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dereoro deRtio Ros<  Cas        ~         ~          nR      5220               llAJoev                           =0~~ -'taF bouIQ{050ter
Gootide   ~~~  >~~  Sjp. de    o,o~   cosa                                                                                                          2 oo  O
,q dk,~~~~~~~~~~~dAr
4R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa~ \                                                   R/~% /                     SaOarH 000 R90. 0#V0eseooode E1a4eo |t~A JA~W9 AoC N       ROooodomoo>iereemetultr
FURAIA S ~  ~              ~             ~             ~             Paos~2                                                         EODRUA   EVLPET  RJC
Sa.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ra
nh.AOReM/D  *slSazzo                         /                                  X                                               MILES D     lo    20    30    40    50-60            | 8-tsew sCa cil Les 1Or                         1 An furr enter(IOses
s~ ~ ~                 _/dodo "V                                                           S6 J,ouavE  C5                                                      Ub                                                                    B  .    A    ZX        ,tirn   rr       g  oa  I L   os
So AE O  Fo0goraev/o    P  A   U   L  O   S( v  >   2    <   6 |;           -    Z    >:  G                      a   MLnzcipa It   th tel2 helectrificalton 000
ch                                                  P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oot  at
T~~~~~~~~~~~  R,. V.,d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oRgna eto ftodesarto
19                                                          a D,arte                                                                           0 0   Co- enl I--~~~~~~~~~l050    0  0 40 5  6  oetno   eriesla  aoeotaas  tac
M  Bto  agt,1o Io   rlatoortcta
22:                                 aepe,d, 11                                                                                                                                SL"bl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~520lssag-onsorgcoacilrtt
d                                                                                                                                                  Mt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)Es,rgp.1kten b ces     e[  .-
s  ,~~~~~ ~~,   TaSdOPtOaIa    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j00U    L  0  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0                     RIO  DEJANEfROE'                A N   EI               0+ 
4,5,              -



