CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1194 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second TEK Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU
DATED JUNE 14, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1194 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second TEK Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU
DATED JUNE 14, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT. dated June 14. 1976. between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU. a State Economic Enterprise established
and operating under the Turkish Electricity Authority Law dated July 15. 1970
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has indicated that the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter
called the Guarantor) has agreed to provide out of its own resources and out of
external sources of financing made available to the Guarantor such additional funds
as may be required to enable the Borrower to carry out the Project over and
above the funds available to the Borrower out of its own funds and under the
Loan provided hereunder;
(C)   The Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to make
the Loan to the Borrower on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Lira" means Lira in the currency of
the Guarantor.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04.    The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May I and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿5
electric utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section the Borrower shall provide to the Bank no later
than August 31, 1976 programs and timetables, all to be acceptable to the Bank,
for the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project. and shall thereafter carry
out the said programs in accordance with such timetables.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of designs,
plans and specifications for, and in the supervision of the construction of, Parts
A(1) and B of the Project, and in the carrying out of Parts E and F of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ an engineering consultant, experts and specialists, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower specifically undertakes to complete, by no later
than December 3 1, 1976, or such other date as the Bank may agree, the tariff
study referred to under Part D of the Project which study is to be conducted,
in consultation with the Bank, with the assistance of qualified and experienced
experts. satisfactory to the Bank, to be employed under terms of reference and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans. specifications reports. contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project: (ii) shall. without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)


﻿6
of this Section. enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to see the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit all plants,
installations, sites. works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project.
Section 3.07.     The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures necessary
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmentil factors.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) at all times manage its affairs, plan
the development of its properties and facilities, and maintain its financial positions
all in accordance with appropriate public utility principles and practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent personnel in adequate numbers: and
(ii) cause its plants, equipment, properties and facilities to be maintained and all
necessary renewals and repairs thereto to be made in accordance with appropriate
public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the Bank,
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its major assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying out of its business or undertaking, including
the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿7
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Loan. free and clear of all encumbrances.
Section 4.06. The Borrower undertakes (i) to complete the reorganization
and staffing of its administrative and technical structure in accordance with a
detailed implementation schedule, to be submitted to the Bank no later than
July  3 1, 1976. or such other date as the Bank may agree, all to be acceptable
to the Bank, (ii) to complete by September 30, 1976, or such other date as the
Bank may agree, the detailed manpower study referred to in Part E of the Project,
and (iii) to implement a program of staffing and recruitment each year based on
the recommendations of the said manpower study, as updated from time to time.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. and
tC) conformed copies of the said financial statements and auditors, report in English:
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported to the Bank or stated in writing.
th1   The Borrower undertakes that. except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree  (i i1 the Borrower hlil crcate any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt. such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of. and interest and other charges on. the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. at no cost to the Bank, and


﻿8
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property, or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed for financing the Project,
unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt incurred by it, including the debt to be incurred. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "debt" shall mean all indebtedness maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term  "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's electricity tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate. less all operating and
administrative expenses adjusted to reflect the level of employment costs and fuel
costs in effect at the time of the incurrence of the debt, including gratuities payable
under the Turkish Electricity Authority Law and provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of repayments of principal (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of Turkish Liras, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange as determined by the
T.C.Merkez Bankasi.


﻿I
9
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
take promptly as needed all such action as shall be required to provide in any
fiscal year an annual return on the average of the realistic net value of its fixed
assets in service at the beginning and at the end of such fiscal year at a rate of
not less than eight per cent (8%), commencing with the fiscal year starting
January 1, 1976. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the said annual return
shall be calculated in accordance with the method specified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and to the extent that this method is inconsistent with the ones specified
in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement dated June 22, 1971 (No. 763 TU) and
in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement dated June 28, 1974 (No. 1023 TU), all
between the Bank and the Borrower, the method specified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement shall govern.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall promptly, from time to time, revise its
books, in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall notify the Bank prior to making any
repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any debts as defined in paragraph
(a) of Section 5.04 of this Agreement and shall not make any such repayment
without the consent of the Bank unless a pro rata repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of the Loan is made simultaneously with such other repayment.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date September 14, 1976 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington. D.C.
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu
Genel Mudurlugu
Necatibey Caddesi 36
Sihhiye-Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:
TEK
Ankara
IN WITNESS WHEREOF. the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia. United States of America.
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   s  Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice Presidenlr
Europe, M1iddle East and North .Afica
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK KURUMU
By   s  Muamner Akinci
Authori:ed Representarihe


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan. the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in           Exceedir:>rr>
Caregor-                   Dollar Equivalenr)      rc oc Fbnac :
(1)   Substation equip-             51.600.000           100', of foreign
ment. materials                                    expenditures or
for substations                                    ex-factory cost
and their instal-                                  of locally manu-
lation: insulators,                                factured equi-
hardware and con-                                  ment
ductors for trans-
mission lines
(2)   Training and train-             1.500.000          100   of foreign
ing equipment                                      expenditures
(3)  Consulting services               300.000           100-- of foreign
e\penditures
(4)   Unallocated                     2.(100.000
TOTAL         50.000.000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from. the territory. and in the currency.
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account


﻿12
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services. or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end. if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's current 1975-1979 development plan
and consists of the following parts:
Part A     (1)   The construction and placing into operation of 380/154 kV
substations, having an aggregate capacity of about 2,550 MVA,
principally at Kayseri, Babaeski, Istanbul II, Istanbul III, Bursa,
Ankara II, Eregli, Keban, Osmaniye, Izmir and Adapazari
comprising structures, switchgear, protective circuits and
transformers, and related equipment;
(2)   The construction and placing into operation of 154/33 kV
substations having an aggregate capacity of about 650 MVA,
principally at Etiler. Ankara, Keban, Denizli, Bursa, Sivas,
Kayseri, Orhangazi, Gaziantepe and Adapazari with structures
and equipment including transformers and related equipment;
Part B     Construction and placing into operation, to serve the needs of the
works referred to under Part A of the Project, of transmission lines
at 380 kV between Keban and Elbistan (171 km), Elbistan and
Osmaniye (174 km), Adapazari and Eregli (150 km), Babaeski and
Istanbul II (200 km), and Istanbul II and Istanbul III (60 km) -
(crossing the Bosporus);
Part C     The training of the Borrower's engineers in the design and operation
of the EHV transmission system;
Part D      A tariff study embracing the whole electric power sector in the
Guarantor's territory;
Part E     A medium- and long-term manpower study of the Borrower's annual
professional staff requirements, in various professional categories, for
each year during a five year period commencing January 1, 1977: and
Part F     Power system and transmission line studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Dac Pavment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
MaI 1. 1980                                              850.000
Novenber 1. 1980                                         890,000
May 1. 1981                                               930.000
November 1. 1981                                          965.000
May 1. 1982                                              1,010,000
November 1. 1982                                         1,050,060
May 1. 1983                                              1,095,000
November 1. 1983                                         1,140.000
Max 1. 1984                                              1.195.000
November 1, 1984                                         1,240.000
May 1. 1985                                              1.295,000
November 1. 1985                                         1.350.000
May 1. 198(                                              1.405.000
November 1, 1986                                         1.465,000
May 1. 1987                                              1,530,000
November 1, 1987                                         1,590,000
May 1. 1988                                              1.665,000
November 1, 1988                                         1,730,000
May 1. 1989                                              1,805,000
November 1, 1989                                        .1,885,000
May 1. 1990                                              1,960,000
November 1, 1990                                         2,045,000
May 1, 1991                                              2,135,000
November 1. 1991                                         2,220,000
May 1. 1992                                              2,320,000
November 1. 1992                                         2,415,000
May 1. 1993                                              2.520,000
Novmber 1. 1993                                         2,625,000
May 1. 1994                                              2,735,000
November 1. 1994                                         2.855.000
Mav 1, 1995                                              2,975,000
November 1, 1995                                         3.110,000
To thu uxten that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollar, (see General Conditions, Section 4.02). the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                           1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                           2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         4-1/2%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          6-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/2%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                            8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
Pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement. contracts for goods. works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be let under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference fbr Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods. or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods: (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods. and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted. the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation. responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(I) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey.


﻿17
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review by Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, spare parts and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding and in the case of contracts for works at 380 kV
a technical report on the engineering of such works to be prepared by the consultant
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,


﻿18
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule. promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph. the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Method of Calculating Annual Return
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   The term    "fixed power assets" means all electric power plants,
substations, transmission lines and related facilities and assets owned by the
Borrower, except those which are financed from the Village Electrification Fund
referred to in Article 4 of the Turkish Electricity Authority Law.
(b)   The term   "realistic net value" of the fixed power assets in service
means the gross value of fixed power assets valued as provided in this Schedule,
less accumulated depreciation on such value and the amount of customer
contributions.
(c)   The term   "operating income" shall mean the difference between all
revenues from the generation, transmission, distribution or sale of electricity and
other services incidental thereto performed by the Borrower and all operating and
administrative expenses (including gratuities payable under the Turkish Electricity
Authority Law or otherwise, adequate provision for maintenance and repairs,
provision for the depreciation of all fixed power assets in service and for taxes).
Other revenues or income (e.g. from security interests or from work as a contractor)
and the expenses and taxes relating thereto shall be disregarded in determining
the operating income.
2.    The annual return specified in Section 5.05 of this Agreement shall be
calculated, in respect of each fiscal year, by using as the denominator the average
of the realistic net values of the fixed power assets in service at the beginning
and at the end of each such year and as numerator the operating income of the
Borrower for the same year. During the period of the construction of the Project
the earnings and rate of return of the Borrower shall be calculated and reviewed
at least semi-annually, once in April when the audited actuals of operating results
of the completed fiscal year are available and again in September when the budget
is in an advanced stage of preparation. The results of such review and the measures
proposed, if necessary, to secure the required annual return shall be promptly
communicated to the Bank. The calculation in respect of the completed fiscal year
shall be based on actual values and income, and in respect of the current and
subsequent fiscal years on realistic estimates.
3.    Except as may be otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower,
any overrun in the required annual return for a fiscal year may be carried forward


﻿20
and applied to offset any shortfall in any one or more of the next three fiscal
years. and any shortfall in the required annual return for a fiscal year shall be
made up within the next two fiscal years. The terms "overrun" and "shortfall"
referred to herein mean the monetary value of such overrun or shortfall.
4.    Pursuant to Section 5.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall revise its
books to reflect the value of its fixed power assets in service and its accumulated
provisions for depreciation of those assets, from time to time, whenever necessary
in accordance with the recommendations on revaluation procedures and
depreciation rates set forth in the reports dated November 1, 1971, April 1, 1972
and December 3, 1974, of the consultants appointed in the framework of the
Technical Assistance Grant of May 1, 1967 with the following exceptions, namely:
(a)   the Borrower shall carry out such a revaluation whenever the price
index used as basis of revaluation as of September in each year has risen more
than 15%' since the last revaluation;
(b)   depreciation based on such revalued asset values will be used for
computing the annual return specified in Section 5.05 of this Agreement;
(c)   Import duties and other import taxes on imported goods need riot
be taken into account for purposes of revaluation of the Borrower's assets to the
extent that the Borrower is exempt from such duties and taxes;
(d)   The foreign expenditure value of the Borrower's assets will be adjusted
from time to time, to take into account the fluctuations in the rate of exchange
between the Lira and the currency or currencies used for the purchase of the
said assets, whether or not debts (as this term is defined in Section 5.04 of this
Agreement) contracted for the purpose of financing the purchase of said assets
are repaid in whole or in part; and
(e)   Customer's contributions paid prior to December 31, 1974 to the
Borrower for electricity extensions need not be revalued.


