Docment of
The World Bank
FxOR OMFiCIAL USE ONLY
A/V-33& 93- KO
Report No. 12272-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1993
11 IC Pr <A F-1 I l*
beport No;          I2'  7,i Ko
Type: ,AYr
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1993)
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 = W785
WElGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
EFB   -   Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD  -   Education Loan Projects Division
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
JTC   -  Jun-or Technical College
KBSC  -  Korea Basic Science Center
MOE   -  Ministry of Education
KCJCE -  Korea Council for Junior College Education
O&M   -  Operations and Maintenance
OE    -  Office of Education
OSROK -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
OU        Open University
PAP   -  Policies and Actions Program
PCC   -   Project Coordinating Committee
PCR   -   Project Completion Report
PPAR  -   Project Performance Audit Report
S&T   -   Science and Technical
SOE   -   Statements of Expenditure
TAP   -  Technology Advancement Project
VHS   -  Vocational High School
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KORE
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page -No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM1ARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
I.  SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCAT1ON IN KOREA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.  Introduction ..........  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..  ..   .  1
B.  Science and Engineering Education in the Universities  . . . . . . 2
C.  Open Universities  ........  ..  .  ...  .  ..  ..  ..  ..          .  3
D.  Junior Technical Colleges  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
E.  Secondary-Level Science and Technical Education  . . . . . . . . . 5
F.  Korea Basic Science Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
G.  Bank's Experience in Education and Research  . . . . . . . . . . . 7
II. THE PROJECT ............................ . 10
A.  Origin of the Project ..................... . 10
B.  Project Rationale and Objectives ................ . 10
C.  Project Design and Description ................. . 11
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.  Costs ............................. . 16
B.    Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
D.  Environmen-al Impact .......  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .   . 23
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A.  Benefits ............................ . 23
B. Risks ............................. . 23
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .23
The report is based on the findi.gs of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during March 1993 and an appraisal mission consLsting of Messrs. W. Rees
(mission leader), S.Z. Sung, and I. Irvine (consultants), which visited Korea
during July 1993. Peer reviewers were Mr. H. Beemer (EA2HR), and Mmes. J.
Hykin (ASTHR) and S. Takeda (EA3PH). The report has been endorsed by Messrs.
J. Shivakum.r, Chief, EAlPH, and C. Madavo, Director, EAl.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Pageq Ng.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . 17
3.3 Financing Plan.. .......... ..... 19
3.4  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ANNEXES
1. Chart - Organization of the Korea Basic Science Center
2. Policies and Actions Program
3.  Implementation Letter
4. Detailed Project Costs by Component and Category
5. Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
6. Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Supervision Plan
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MP



-iii-
KOREA
SCIENCE hND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower          : Republic of Korea
Beneficiarfes     : Selected private universities and junior technical
colleges (JTCs)
Amount            : US$190 million equivalent
Terms             : Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Re-Lending Terms  : To private universities and junior technical colleges as
subsidiary loans by the Government for 15 years including
5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable Literest
rate.
Project
Description     : The overall objective of the project is to assisr in
improving science and technical education and research
through implementation of an agreed Policies and Actions
Program and the provision of specialized equipment.
Specifically, the project would: (a) support quality
improvement in undergraduate science and engineering
departments in selected universities; (b) assist in
strengthening the teaching and research capacity of
marine science institutions to address environmental
problems; (c) assist in improving the quality of
practical science and engineering programs in the open
universities and in selected junior technical colleges;
(d) improve opportunities for joint research activities
in basic sciences through strengthening common research
facilities at the Korea Basic Science Center (KBSC); and
(e) enhance the quality of training in selected
vocational high schools. The project would include
specialized equipment with an estimated baselirne cost of
US$190 million. Government would finance complementary
inputs (US$63.9 million) related to making the equiDment
operational and maintaining it thereafter, namely, local
transportation and installation costs, O&M and
consumables. The project would also include civil works
(US$8.8 million) for the construction of additional
laboratories for KBSC.



-iv-
Benefits and Risks:  The project would assist in strengthening the S&T education
policy framework. Policy changes would lead to a range of
institutional improvements, which together with the supply
of specialized equipment, would improve the quality of
science and engineering programs, strengthen basic research
in the natural sciences and upgrade lower-level technical
skills. This in turn would contribute to E stronger science
and technology infrastructure which is the basis of Korea's
priority for technology-intensive industrialization.
Environmental aspects of mariue science education and
research would also be enhanced. Additionally, the project
would assist in raising the quality of technical training
for lower socio-economic groups, which are served by the
open universities and the JTCs, thereby enhancing their
prospects for employment. There are no major risks
associated with the project.
Pxoipt Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
-(US$ million)------
Engineering Departments                    17.4        61.9       79.3
Natural Science Departments                13.5        46.5       60.0
Marine Science Departments                  6.3        20.7       27.0
Open Unliversities                          4.3        15.5       19.8
Junior Technical Colleges                    3.5       10.4       13.9
Vocational High Schools                      6.3       20.7       27.0
Korea Basic Science Center                  13.3       22.5       35.8
Baseline Cost                              64.6       198.2      262.8
Contingencies
Physical                                  6.5        19.8       26.3
Price increase                           14.0        21.7       35.7
Subtotal                              242.0
Total Proleucto V5.A                                    23 9.78
Financing Plan:                             Local      Foreign     Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                                 85.1        49.7      134.8
IBRD                                         -        190.0      190.0
Total                                                    324.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank- FY1995   1996   1997   19I9    1999   2000
Annual                            20.0   35.0   60.0   40.0   30.0    5.0
Cumulative                        20.0   55.0  115.0  155.0  185.0  190.0
la Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$19.8 million.
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Poverty Category:              Not applicable
Map:   IBRD No. 25204



SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1       Underlying Korea's successful ir.;ustrialization has been a strong
commitment to expanding research and development (R&D) as the basis for moving
industry increasingly towards technology-intensive production. Expenditures
on R&D have increased rapidly in recent years through the expansion of the
network of public sector research institutes, the growth of university
research facilities and the establishment of private sector research
institutes in response to government-provided financial incentives. R&D
expenditures, which were 0.7% of national income in 1980, had risen to 2.5% by
1990 and are planned to reach 5% by 2000. Essential to this strategy has been
the rapid development of science and technical (S&T) education to produce the
scientific and technical manpower necessary to achieve the R&D-based
industrial transformation of recent years. The universities have produced a
rising flow of scientists and engineers at undergraduate levels, while the
graduate programs have produced the crucial research manpower. The
universities have been complemented by the junior technical colleges (JTCs),
which produce key technician nonpower, and the vocational high schools (VHSs),
responsible for training the craftsmen which form the base of the technical
skills pyramid. Over the past decade, open universities (OUs) have also been
established to enable working adults to upgrade their techrnical skills.
1.2       Policies governing the development of S&T education have reflected
the general pattern of Korea's industrialization. Expansion of enrollments
was rapid at all levels during the 1970s and early 1980s to meet the high
demand for S&T manpower. However, by the mid-1980s, it was becoming clear
that the rapid expansion had been achieved at the cost of declining quality.
In recent years therefore, enrollment increases have moderated and greater
emphasis placed on improving quality. The latter has been sought through
faculty recruitment programs to reduce student/staff ratios, modernizing
equipment in laboratories and workshops, strengthening evaluation and
accreditation procedures and improving student assessment mechanisms. Policy
improvements in these areas were supported under Ln.2427-KO, which was
successfully completed in 1989 (para. 1.22). Policy change in Korea's
education system is a continuous process. For example, the universities are
currently introducing new admissions procedures which give individual
institutions more flexibility in student selection; the VHSs are implementing
a revised, more practically-oriented curriculum. Looking to the future,
policies for S&T education must ensure that the system can meet the needs of
the labor market for technical manpower while maintaining quality. To ensure
relevance to labor market needs, institutions must continue to strengthen
their links with employers. While these links are common, their effectiveness
depends too often on the commitment of individuals. The links need to be both
strengthened and made more systematic.



B. Science and Engineering Education in the Universities
1.3       The major source of Korea's professional scientific and technical
manpower is the university departments of science and engineering.
Enrollments in undergraduate programs, which provide the working-level
engineers and scientists, were about 241,000 in engineering and 208,000 in
science in 1992. This represents about 42X of total undergraduate enrollments
in the universities. Enrollments in graduate programs, which provide the key
research personnel, were 16,900 In engineering and 12,700 in science,
representing about 30% of total graduate enrollments. The pattern of
enrollment change has reflected Korea's increasing move towards technology-
intensive development. In the seventies and early eighties, enrollment in
science and engineering Drograms expanded rapidly as Korea sought to enlarge
its stock of scientific and engineering manpower. During this period,
undergraduate enrollments in science and engineering increased at over 20X
p.a. However, this rapid expansion was achieved at the expense of some lo0s
of quality and the late eighties saw a reduction in enrollment growth and a
shift towards emphasizing higher standards. Enrollments in science and
engineering programs increased at only around 4X p.a. during 1988-92.
1.4       During the eighties, quality improvement was pursued in a number of
areas (assisted under the Program for Science and Technology Education - Lr.
2427-KO). One serious consequence of rapid enrollment expansion was the
shortage of qualif.ed fqculty which led to heavy teaching loads and high
student/faculty ratios. In response, faculty recruitment was expanded with
the result that student/faculty ratios in undergraduate science programs have
declined from about 38:1 in 1987 to 26:1 in 1992 and in engineering programs
from 46:1 to 37:1 in the same period. An improvement in the quality of
faculty, at least in terms of the numbers holding doctorates, is also evident.
Currently, about 752 of faculty in science and engineering departments have a
doctorate compared with 29X in 1982. The expansion of faculty has also
reduced teaching loads with contact hours now averaging about 12 per week. To
reinforce the faculty development program, laboratories were upgraded through
the expansion and improvement of equipment. Inclusive of equipment being
provided under the ongoing Science Education and Libraries Computerization
Project (Ln. 3468-KO), equipment provision is expected to reach about 702 of
the standard requirements for laboratory equipment by 1996. The quality of
science and engineering programs will also benefit from improved evaluation
procedures currently being introduced in the universities. These procedures
involve a combination of internal self-evaluation and external evaluation
carried out by the Korea Council for University Education.
1.5       The enrollment of women in undergraduate science programs, although
lagging behind men, is showing marked signs of improvement. Women represented
38% of science enrollments in 1992 compared with. 292 in 1982. Moreover,
present trends favor a continued increase in the proportion of female
enrollments. Over the decade 1982-92, female enrollments in undergraduate
science programs increased at nearly 82 p.a. compared with 3.>X p.a. for
mal3s. In undergraduate engineering programs, women accounted for about 5X of
enrollments in 1992 compared with a mere 1% in 1982. This proportion reflects
the traditional reluctance of women to enroll in technology-related programs.



-3-
No overt discriminatory practices exist which would discourage women from
enrolling in engineering courses and the present enrollment pattern is largely
the result of the exercise of individual preferences. Even so, in growth
terms the trends are promising. Female enrollments in engineering were
increasing at around 16% p.a. during 1982-92 compared with an increase for
males of 3% p.a.
1.6       Withlin the structure of undergraduate science are specialized
prograr4s in marine and fisheries science. These are taught in five
spe.cialized marine institutions and in a number of marine-related aepartments
in several universities. Total undergraduate enrollments were about 15,900 in
1992 mainly in the fields of oceanography, marire science, marine engineering
and fisheries technology. The marine institutions, like the university system
in general, have been the beneficiaries of faculty development programs,
ulpgrading of laboratory equipment and improved program evaluation procedures.
A major weakness in the system at present is its lack of capacity to address
crucial issues relating to a deteriorating coastal and marine environment,
caused by pollution from rapid industrialization and coastal development. The
marine institutions are relatively well-endowed with high-quality faculty,
many of whom have overseas graduate degrees. The weakness lies mainly in the
lack of suitable environment-related teaching and research equipment to enable
environmental courses to be improved and expanded and to strengthen the
institutions' capacity to undertake research into environmental problems.
C. Open Universities
1.7       The law permicting the establishment of opeli universities in Korea
was enacted in 1981 and in the following year, the first such institution was
set up. The number of open universities has grown to twelve during the past
decade with the upgrading of four junior technical colleges to open university
status in April 1993. The original objective of the open universities was to
provide continuing education to individuals who had left formal education and
entered the labor market. There was a clear focus on technical programs which
gave the open universities a manpower development function. In 1988, the
training of technical manpower was given stronger emphasis as an institutional
objective. The open universities enrolled around 70,200 students in 1992 of
whom 54% were evening students. About 70% of enrollments are in technology-
related programs and most of the remainder are in economics and management
programs. Women accounted for about 19% of total enrollments. The demand for
open university places has increased rapidly in recent years and is well in
excess of capacity. In 1988, the ratio of applicants to places was 2.4 and
this figure had increased to 6.2 by 1992. The reeent establishment of four
new open universities is an attempt to meet additional demand for places.
Such expansion will have implications for staffing. Recruitment of faculty to
the open universities has faced special difficulties. Academic qualification
requirements are generally the same as for the formal universities but OU
faculty must also have had at least three years' industrial experience.
Faculty are required to teach evening classes and in general facilities are
poorer in the OUs and their prestige lower. The result has been inadequate
recruitment, high student/faculty ratios (33:1) and heavy workloads for
faculty.



* 4 -
1.8       The OUs have some of the characteristics of a truly open system.
Fees are lower than in the formal system-1 so as to encourage the enrollment
of working students.  There is no time limit prescribed for completion of
courses although the academic requirements for graduation are the same as in
the formal system to ensure equivalency of standards. Curricula are somewhat
more practical than in the formal system in recognition of the needs of
students drawn from industry. Admissions policy is flexible and includes a
liberal interpretation of high school graduation equivalency. Priority
categories for admission also favor the working student. Preference is for
workers who have a techrical qualification and wish to upgrade their skills
and those who are recommended by their omployers for skills development. Next
in order of preference are vocational high school graduates who wish to
continue to study the same subject, followed by general high school graduates.
This order of preference notwithstanding, most of the admissions come from
this last category. In view of the original objective of providing further
education for adults, it had been expected that the number of new high school
graduates entering the open universities would be a minority because they
would seek enrollment in the formal university sector. However, the demand
for higher education has grown so fast in recent years that new high school
graduates who have failed to gain entry to regular university programs, have
been enirolling increasingly in the open universities. Their rate of
enrollment, in recent years, has been double that of working students and by
1992 new high school graduates accounted for one-half of total open university
enrollments. This trend needs to be reversed if the open universities are to
achieve their stated objectives of serving mainly adult students.
D. Junior Technical Colleges
1.9       The junior technical colleges are part of a national system of
junior colleges. JTCs service industry's needs for technician manpower while
other specialized junior colleges produce middle-level manpower in such fields
as agriculture, public health, nursing, etc. There are 126 junior colleges in
Korea enrolling 405,000 students. Women account for 36% of total enrollments
including 100% in nursing, 81% in home economics, 46% in social sciences and
39% in public health. Fifty-three JTCs enroll 177,000 students mainly in the
fields of electronics/electricity (24%), computer science (19%),
mechanics/machinery (16%), and architecture/civil engineering (15%). Women
accounted for about 11% of total enrollments but 34% in computer science.
1.10      The junior technical college system is largely a private one
comprising 4 public and 49 private institutions. The latter account for about
93% of enrollments. Nevertheless, the system is heavily regulated by the
Ministry of Education (MOE) which prescribes curricula, approves faculty
recruitment, sets enrollment quotas and is generally responsible for the
quality of education provided. The MOE also prescribes fee levels for the
public and private colleges. Public colleges are heavily subsidized by MOE
1/   The admission fee is 12% of the fee level in the fornal system, tuition
fee, 25% and the student activity fee, 79%.



(77%) which is a reflection of the relatively modest fee levels. Private
college fees are twice as high as those charged by public colleges but fees
account for 84% of private colleges' income. MOE provides grants to the
private colleges to finance equipment purchases which amount to about 14% of
the college's capital expenditures.
1.11      Admission to the JTCs is highly competitive with 3.2 applicants for
each place in 1992. This compares with 1,9 applicants per place in 1988,
indicating that entry to JTCs is becoming more competitive. This is
consistent with the high rates of employment for JTC graduates which in 1992
was 87%, after allowing for transfers to four-year colleges and military
enlistments. Individual colleges are permitted a good deal of flexibility in
setting admiscions tests but they must adhere to MOE guidelines regarding
priority categories for admission. Priority is given to industrial workers
wishing to upgrade their qualifications followed by vocational high scbool
graduates who want to pursue further study in their specialization. Ge.teral
high school graduates have the lowest priority. Special admission procedures
apply to the selection of industrial workers and include practical skill
tests. In order to encourage the enrollment of workers, MOE requires that at
least 50% of admissions to evening classes should be under special procedures.
1.12      The rapid growth and structural change in Korea's economy has led
to shortages of technical manpower, especially at the technician level. In
response, the Government plans to increase new student places by about 7,000
p.a. in the JTCs. This expansion will require the recruitment of about 300
new teachers per year and on the basis of recent experience, this is
achievable. The present student/faculty ratio is a relatively high 29:1 and
this needs to be reduced. In an expanding system in which quality must be
maintained, greater attention should be given to the evaluation of programs.
The Korea Council for Junior College Education (KCJCE) plays a research and
coordination role within the ju.aior college system. It also has an evaluation
role which it has not been able to fulfill due to lack of resources. This
situation needs to be rectified. Shortages of equipmeat have also teduced the
quality of education in the JTCs. Overall, only about 54% of the requirements
of the standard equipment lists have been met and this greatly reduces the
effectiveness of instruction in the laboratories and workshops. The problem
has been recognized by the Government and it should be possible to provide
additional equipment to meet 100% of the standard requirements by 1998.
E. Secondary-Level Science and Technical Education
1.13      Science is taught as an integrated subject in -:he middle schools
(grades 7-9) for four hours per week in grade 7 rising to 5 hours per week in
grade 9. In the first year of general high school (grade 10), science
continues to be taught as an integrated subject but in grade 11, students can
select a science major. Science majors study physics, chemistry and either
biology or earth science and together these subjects account for about 20% of
the curriculum. 3cience courses are available at general and advanced levels
but the latter are mandatory for students intending to study science or



- 6 -
engineering in the universities.31   Other majors (humanities and vocational)
study science as an integrated subject which accounts for about 8X of the
curricula. The science curriculum is divided into 30X practical work and 70%
theory. In the past, the theory part was criticized as b-aring little
relevance to students' everyday lives. Subsequent curriculum revisions in the
1980s introduced new topics such as pollution, energy conservation,
preservation of natural habitats, etc. The teaching of the practical aspects
of the curriculum suffered from lack of equipment and shortages of science
teachers resulting in classes too large to involve students in meaningful
experimentation. Equipment provision has improved (assisted under Lns. 2427-
KO and 3468-KO) and the supply of science teachers has increased
substantially.
1.14      Secondary-level technical education is provided in the vocational
high schools. This system, which parallels the general high schools, aims at
providing general education to grade 12 while including sufficient vocational
education to permit graduates to find employment as skilled craftsmen in their
fields of specialization. In 1992, there were 677 VHSs of which 299 (44X)
were private, enrolling 812,500 students (60% private). By specialization,
enrollments were mainly in commerce (54%), industry (271) and agriculture
(5%). Females accounted for 53% of total enrollments including 81% in
commerce and only 3% in industry. The employment rate for 1992 graduates was
87% which reflects a tightening market for VHS graduates - employmcnt rates
were 841 in 1990 and 79% in 1988. Industry has reported a widespread shortage
of skilled craftsmen and the Government has set a long-term enrollment ratio
of 50:50 between vocational and non-vocational courses in the high school
system compared with the present ratio of 33:67 in favor of non-vocational
courses.  By 1998, the ratio is expected to be 39:61.
1.15      Two crucial inputs bearing on the quality of vocational education
are the provision of teachers and instructional equipment. The VHSs have been
able to attract well-qualified teachers due to the relatively high prestige of
the teaching profession and to relatively high salary scales. Teachers of
both vocational and general subjects are required to have at least a four-year
degree. Teachers are both dell-qualified and experienced, with 94% having a
bachelor's degree or equivalent and 54% having 10 or more years of teaching
experience. Although the overall student/staff ratio is a quite generous
21:1, the endowment of teachers of vocational subjects is much less
satisfactory, averaging 44:1. The supply of vocational subject teachers needs
to be looked at both in terms of reducing the student/staff ratio and the
requirements of future expansion of the VHS system. In the past, equipment
provision has lagged well behind the requirements' of the standard lists. The
average provision was 44% in 1992 and it is planned to raise this to 70% by
1998. This will be assisted by the ongoing vocational education projects
(Lns. 3314-KO and 3469-KO). In order to ensure that equipment is utilized
2/   There are also 11 science high schools with enrollments of 1909
providing education for scientifically gifted students.
3/   The stock of science teachers increased by 83% during 1982-92.



- 7 -
effectively, adequate provision must be made for expenditures on operations
and maintenance (O&M) and consumable materials. A more systematic approach to
procuring such resources is needed in the VHS system and this problem is being
addressed by local education authorities under recent guidelines for
decentralization.
F. Korea Basic Science Center
1.16      The Government is placing increased emphasis on basic science
research in order to strengthen Korea's ability to become more self-sufficient
in technology development and, in the longer term, to reduce the need for
imported technology. In support of this policy, the Korea Basic Science
Center was established in 1988 under the general direction of the Ministry of
Science and Technology. The overall objective of KBSC is to promote a more
rational and efficient use of expensive research equipment in the basic
sciences. KBSC has a main campus at Daeduk and four regional centers. KBSC's
major functions are to: (a) provide common facilities and equipment for basic
research for use by researchers from the universities and research institutes;
(b) develop, in consultation with local and overseas authorities, operational
procedures and techniques for the most effective use of expensive, large-scale
equipment; and (c) develop and maintain a scientific information and data
base, including the provision of scientific papers to researchers in the
universities and research institutes. Management of KBSC is the
responsibility of the President who is assisted by an Operational Council, of
which he is chairman.
1.17      The KBSC main campus is responsible for major research activities
and the four regional centers provide routine analytical services to local
universities. The main campus has two instrument divisions dealing with
advanced analysis and joint research activities (Annex 1). There is also an
Office of Scientific Information which is responsible for the collection and
dissemination of scientific information and data. The Office of Technical
Support is staffed with engineers and technicians responsible for maintaining
the research equipment. Each instrument division is staffed by part-time
principal researchers, drawn mainly from the universities, who are responsible
for advising on the research programs to be undertaken by KBSC. Full-time
researchers are responsible for operating the research equipment to specified
levels of accuracy and sensitivity. They also conduct seminars for potential
users of the equipment on operational procedures, measurement methodologies
and safety precautions. It is anticipated that as staffing expands, full-time
researchers increasingly will undertake sponsored research projects,
especially those that advance measurement techniques and improve equipment
operating systems. Currently, KBSC has a research staff of 35, all of whom
have graduate degrees. Researchers are assisted by a technical support group
of 15 engineers and technicians.
G. Bank's Experience in Education and Research
1.18      The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development effurts
through substantial support for the development of teehnical and scientific



- 8 -
education and researchb./ Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's
needs and priorities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing
sophistication of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring
of industry towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would
require the continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Thus as
industry developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to
education moved from support for craftsman and technician training through
professional engineering education to graduate engineering programs and
associated research activities.
1.19      The Bank's'initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits focused on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The first education project in Korea (Cr. 151-KO)
supported the expansion of vocational high schools, junior technical colleges
and teacher training. It also financed technical assistance and fellowships
to strengthen the planning and administration of vocational and technical
education. The PPAR for the credit (Report No. 1801-KO, November 22, 1977)
concluded that phys,cal implementation was satisfactory but that some delays
were experienced in recruiting and utilizing the experts under the technical
assistance component. The latter could have been overcome by more careful
scheduling and a clearer definition of the experts' functions.
1.20      The second education project (Ln. 906/Cr. 394-KO) financed
equipment for vocational high schools, junior technical colleges and
undergraduate programs in science, engineering and education. The PPAR for
the project (Report No. 4509, May 24, 1983) concluded that the project was
implemented substantially as planned but with some delays due to over-
optimistic scheduling. The third education project (Ln. 1096-KO) continued to
support expansion and quality improvement in vocational high schools and
junior colleges and for vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Ministry of Labor. The project was implemented successfully and demonstrated
the growing experience and competence of local project staff. The fourth
education project (Ln. 1474-KO) supported a further expansion of VTIs and
expansion and improvement of instructor training. The project completion
report (PCR) for the project (Report No. 5516, March 8, 1985) concluded that
the project was well designed, implemented efficiently and judged the project
to be an excellent example of Bank/Borrower cooperation. It is re sonable to
conclude that the first four projects demonstrated that the increased
competence of local authorities led to improved project design and
implementation. Project experience also demonstrated that there was a need to
take a broader view of sectoral policies and issues after the implementation
4/   The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



- 9 -
of four conventional projects. This was taken up in the two subsequent
operations which were policy-oriented sector loans.
1.21      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university departments of engineering
and management through the supply of equipment, staff development and
institutional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning,
equipment maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan
(Report No. 7252, May 24, 1988) concludes that the institutional improvements
were achieved satisfactorily and indicates that the major lessons learned
were: (a) a stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to
successful implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led
to a quicker and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities;
and (c) the additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of
more efficient implementation.
1.22      The second education sector loan (Ln. 2427-KO), which incorporated
these lessons, assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding graduate research programs, improving sector management
and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule on June 30, 1989. The PCR for the loan (Report No. 9569,
May 17, 1991) concludes that its objectives were largely met. Policy and
institutional improvements of particular relevance to science education were
introduced in relation to accreditation of colleges of natural science and
science education departments, upgrading and expanding staffing of these
institutions and the planning of facilities and equipment; at the secondary
level, a new experimentation-oriented science curriculum was introduced, a
system to monitor student achievement in science developed, new examination
and college admission procedures introduced and science teachers upgraded
through in-service training.
1.23      Following these education projects the Bank turned its attention to
supporting research activities in the national research institutes and in the
universities under three Technology Advancement Projects (TAPs) and the
Universities Science and Technology Research Project. The three TAPs (Ln.
3037-KO, Ln. 3202-KO and Ln. 3315-KO) are assisting in raising the quality of
research in a broad range of institutes, mainly under the Ministry of Science
and Technology, through the provision of specialized equipmentW. The
Universities Science and Technology Research Project (Ln. 3203-KO) is
supporting the broadening and deepening of basic research programs in prio:ity
5/   The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector under the first
five lending operations is documented in the OED report titled Review of
the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea
(Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
6/   Ln. 3037-KO was implemented successfully and closed on schedule.  A PCR
is under preparation.



- 10 -
fields in science and technology. It builds on the policy changes in
university research introduced under Ln. 2427-KO.
1.24      In the Vocational Education Project (Ln. 3314-K0), the Bank
reverted to assistance to vocational training in recognition of the continuing
need for craftsman training to keep pace with the increasingly complex skill
requirements of the labor market. The recently approved Vocational Schools
Development Project (Ln. 3469-KO) continues efforts to upgrade vocational
education and includes institutional elements aimed at strengthening the link
between schools and employers, more effective planning and improved staffing
arrangements in the schools. The Science Education and Libraries
Computerization Project (Ln. 3468-KO) aims to strengthen secondary and
undergraduate science education and to improve information flows through the
establishment of an automated inter-library network. The Environmental
Research and Education Project (Ln. 3612-KO) is strengthening the capacity of
selected agriculture and veterinary colleges to address rural environmental
problems. All projects currently under implementation are proceeding
satisfactorily.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The Government included the project in its CY93 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
November 1992. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government in
accordance with requests for information formulated by the Bank. The project
was preappraised in March 1993 and appraised in July 1993.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.2       For more than two decades, the Bank has supported the development
of S&T education and research in Korea. Emphasis has been placed on expanding
the supply of technical manpower at all levels and also on qualitative
improvements. In the 1980s, attention was given to the policy framework
within which S&T education and research operated and policy improvements were
introduced under two sector loans (Ln. 1800-KO, Ln. 2427-KO).  This has
permitted recent S&T education and research projects to be designed within a
policy framework that was generally sound. The next decade will be a period
of accelerating technological change and Korea's S&T education system will be
challenged to respond by ensuring that it continues to produce, in quantity
and quality, the necessary skilled manpower to support the country's
technological advancement. The project represents the final opportunity for
the Bank to assist in identifying policy improvements and specifying the
targets which will improve S&T education in future years. As Korea's
graduation project in education, it brings to a close the long and successful
association between Korea and the Bank in the education sector. Changes
proposed under the project are a blend of quantitative, institutional and
qualitative measures which build on and help to sustain past changes. The
changes, while not encompassing major reforms, are relevant to Korea's needs



- 11 -
at this stage. They will help to make previous assistance more effective and
assist in guiding the development of S&T education over the next decade.
2.3       The proposed project also provides the opportunity to continue
quality improvement assistance to the universities, KBSC, and the VHSs, and to
broaden it to include the open universities and the JTCs. There is an
important equity dimension to inclusion of the open universities because they
offer opportunities to those, often the less-privileged, who have not gained
entry to the conventional universities through the highly competitive
selection process. Assisting the JTCs broadens the Bank's support to include
a key area of manpower development. Such assistance also has an equity aspect
because the JTCs draw many of their enrollments from the lower socio-economic
groups. Support for strengthening the marine science institutions' capacity
to address marine environmental problems, complements assistance provided to
the agricultural and veterinary colleges to address rural environmental
problems under the recently-approved tnvironmental Research and Education
ProJect (Ln. 3612-KO).
2.4       The overall objective of the proposed project is to assist in
improving the quality of S&T education and research through implementation of
the Policies and Actions Program (para 2.5) and the provision of specialized
equipment. Specifically, the project would: (a) support quality improvement
in undergraduate science and engineering departments in selected universities;
(b) assist in strengthening the teaching and research capacity of marine
science institutions to address environmental problems; (c) assist in
improving the quality of practical science and engineering programs in the
open universities and in selected junior technical colleges; (d) improve
opportunities for joint research activities in basic sciences through
strengthening common research facilities at the Korea Basic Science Center;
and (d) enhance the quality of training in selected VHSs. Quality improvement
is being supported through the provision of up-to-date laboratory and workshop
equipment. Although recruitment needs to be expanded, existing faculty in
Korea's education institutions are generally well-qualified. However,
significant shortages of up-to-date equipment have reduced the quality of
research and teaching. The provision of such equipment under the project will
enhance the performance of faculty in a wide range of institutions.
C. Project Design and Description
2.5       Policies and Actions Program.  As noted previously (para. 1.2),
policy change in Korea's education system is a continuous process. In looking
to the future, the major objectives of S&T education are to ensure that,
quantitatively, it meets the demand for technical manpower at all levels and
qualitatively, that its products are adequately prepared for employment in a
changing labor market. Within this context, a number of issues have been
reviewed with MOE and appropriate actions identified for implementation during
the project period. These are summarized in the Policies and Actions Program
(PAP) in Annex 2. The PAP is selective rather than exhaustive in recognition
that policy changes are ongoing. The inclusion of selected changes under the
proposed project would serve to reinforce the momentum of overall policy
change in S&T education. The PAP covers undergraduate science and



- 12 -
engineering, open universities, junior technical colleges and vocational high
schools. Within these key areas of S&T education, the program focuses on
issues and policy responses for which plans can be specified and targets set
and monitored during project implementation.
2.6       In undergraduate science and engineering, student quotas would be
increased to meet the rising demand for scientists and engineers. During
1992-98 the annual student quota would increase by 29,000, subject to a review
of manpower requirements in 1996. Quality improvement would be sought through
expanded faculty recruitment to reduce student/staff ratios from 26:1 to 20:1
in the science faculties and from 37:1 to 25:1 in engineering, during 1992-98.
The visiting professors program would be expanded to 120 p.a. by 1998 and
academic research subsidies would increase five-fold by the same year. An
increased equipment budget would raise the provision of laboratory equipment
to 70X of standard requirements by 1996. Library facilities would be expanded
to provide seating capacity for 20% of student enrollment by 1998 compared
with 14% in 1992. Library collections would be strengthened and technology
modernized. In the open universities a task force will prepare a plan to
guide long-term development of the system and to ensure that it serves the
needs of adult students as well as the requirements of the labor market.
Enrollment trends would be reversed to allow larger inputs of adult students
at the expense of new high school graduates. By 1998, adult students would
account for 60% of new enrollments. In pursuit of quality improvement,
equipment provision would be raised to 100% of standard requirements by 1998,
faculty recruitment would be increased and more emphasis placed on industrial
experience.
2.7       In the JTCs, student quotas would be expanded to meet rising demand
for technicians in industry, rising from 75,000 in 1992 to 118,000 in 1998.
Quality improvement would be sought through the recruitment of additional
faculty with more industrial experience. Student/staff ratios would decline
from 29:1 to 25:1 during 1992-98. Better-equipped laboratories and workshops,
and the development of an institutional evaluation mechanism would strengthen
technician training. By 1998, all JTCs would have industry cooperation
committees. The PAP would include changes in the structure of enrollments in
the VHSs to conform to changing demand for skilled craftsmen. Enrollments in
technical programs would account for 45% of total enrollments in 1998 compared
with 34% in 1992. Quality would also be raised through the expansion of joint-
practice centers, improved equipping of workshops and completion of the
introduction of the revised curriculum. An additional nine joint practice
centers would be opened in 1998 and luipment provision would reach 70% of
standard requirements in that year. lie PAP would also evaluate the policy
changes being identified and impleme Ad under the ongoing Vocational Schools
Development Project and propose further adjustments as necessary.
2.8        The Policies and Actions Program has been reviewed by the Bank and
agreement reached on policy changes to be included in the project and the
actions and targets necessary for their implementation. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to implement the actions and monitor progress in meetir.g
targets in accordance with the agreed Policies and Actions Program. The
Government also presented, during negotiations, an Implementation Letter



- 13 -
(Annex 3) signed by the Minister of Education, governing implementation of the
PAP.
2.9       Equipment Provision.  Under the project, the Bank would finance
equipment with an estimated baseline cost of US$190 million. This amount has
already been determined by the Government and is fixed within the foreign
borrowing program. Bank-financed equipment would be allocated to: engineering
departments, ( baseline cost US$60 million); natural science departments,
(US$45 million); marine science departments, (US$20 million); open
universitiec, (US$15 million); junior technical colleges, (US$10 million);
vocational high schools, (US$20 million); and KBSC, (US$20 million). The
equipment forms the core of the project but in order to ensure that it is
utilized effectively, complementary inputs (US$63.9 million) must also be
supplied. These would be financed by the Government and cover local
transportation and installation of equipment, O&M and consumable materials.
The Government would also finance physical facilities for KBSC's equipment
(US$8.8 million). All contingencies would be financed by the Government. In
earlier projects, the Bank financed technical assistance and overseas training
as a means of strengthening S&T education in Korea. Rapid development in
recent years has resulted in adequate local capacity to formulate policy,
prepare plans and implement projects. Given present capabilities, there is no
requirement for a technical assistance component in the project and the loan
amount is therefore allocated entirely to equipment procurement.
2.10      Natural Science and Engineering Departments.  Selection of
universities and constituent science and engineering departments to
participate in the project would be on the basis of agreed criteria. These
are that: (a) each participating institution would have at least three science
and three engineering departments; (b) each department would have at least
three full-time professors; (c) departmental undergraduate enrollment for
1992-93 would be at least 120 in science and at least 160 in engineering; (d)
undergraduate programs would have been in operation for at least two years as
of March 1994; and (e) each department would have a five-year development
plan. These criteria would ensure that participating departments are well-
established and of sufficient size to gain full benefit from project
assistance. At least 50% of the loan funds would be allocated to provincial
universities and at least 30% of loan funds will be allocated to private
universities. About 50 universities are expected to participate in the
project. During negotiations, the Government agreed that institutions would
be selected to participate in the project according to criteria acceptable to
the Bank. Equipment to be procured under the project (estimated baseline
cost, US$60 million for engineering and US$45 million for science) would be
allocated to undergraduate programs to strengthen the quality of instruction
in science and engineering. Science and technology are advancing rapidly and
the universities must be able to adjust their programs to keep pace with these
changes. Project-financed equipment would allow undergraduate laboratories to
be updated, thereby assisting in the preparation of working-level engineers
and scientists relevant to the needs of industry. Equipment to be procured
under the project would be identified by participating departments from
standard equipment lists available for each science and engineering program.
Lists would be consolidated by participating universities and passed to MOE



- 14 .
for final review. The supply of equipment under the project would be
complemented by increased faculty recruitment leading to annual increases of
about 430 staff in science and about 620 in engineering. To improve the
performance of faculty, academic research subsidies would rise from Won 20
billion in 1992 to Won 100 billion in 1998.
2.11      Marine Science Departments  Seven institutions have been selected
for participation in the project. These comprise five specialized
marine/fisheries institutions and the relevant departments of two national
universities.Y These insticutions are mainly concerned with traditional
teaching and research activities related to basic marine science and
engineering, oceanography, fisheries technology, etc. However, as marine
environmental problems have become increasingly severe in recent years, the
institutions have responded by expanding environment-related teaching and
research. The institutions are adequately staffed with competent faculty,
many of whom have overseas graduate degrees, but laboratories have suffered
from significant shortages of up-to-date equipment. This has hampered the
expansion and qualitative improvement of environmental research and teaching
programs. Equipment to be procured under the project (estimated baseline
cost, US$20 million) would address this problem. Equipment lists have been
prepared by the institutions, reviewed in relation to their relevance to
teaching and research objectives, and found to be satisfactory.
2.12      Open Universities.  There are at present twelve (including three
private) open universities in Korea and these will be assisted under the
project.   As noted previously (para. 1.7), about 70% of enrollments in the
OUs are in technology-related programs. These have a strong practical
orientation requiring a heavy endowment of expensive laboratory and workshop
equipment. Because the OUs were established over the last decade by upgrading
junior technical colleges, much of the existing equipment in the OUs is left
over from the past. New standard equipment lists have been developed for the
OUs and their re-equipping has commenced. However, substantial investments
still need to be made. The average level of equipment provision in the OUs in
relation to the revised standard lists is only about 26%. Project-financed
equipment would help to raise the provision level to 100% by 1998, thus making
a significant contribution to quality improvement of OU technical programs.
Equipment lists have been prepared by the institutions with reference to the
standard lists. Equipment to be procured under the project (estimated
baseline cost, US$15 million) for the twelve OUs would strengthen laboratory
and workshop instruction and reflect the practical orientation of OU programs.
7/   Participating institutions are:  Korea Maritime University, Mokpo
Maritime University, Pusan National Fisheries University, Tong-Yeong
National Fisheries University, Yeosu National Fisheries University,
Cheju National University and Kunsan National University.
8/   The open universities are: Seoul Industrial, Pusan Technical, Taejon
Technical, Samchok Industrial, Sangju Industrial, Kwangju (Open System),
Kyongbuk Industrial, Anseong Technical, Choongju National, Jinju
National, Milyang National and Chongbuk Industrial.



- 15 -
2.13      Junior Technical Colleges.  Selection of JTCs to participate in the
project would be in accordance with agreed criteria. These are that each
participating institution would have: (a) at least four technical departments;
(b) at least three full-time professors in each department; (c) an enrollment
of at least 300 students in 1992-93; (d) courses which have been in operation
for at least two years as of March 1994; and (e) a five-year development plan.
It is expected that about 20 JTCs would participate in the project including
the four public ones. Thus about 16 private JTCs would participate. During
negotiations, the Governmert agreed that institutions would be selected to
participate in the project *.ccording to criteria acceptable to the Bank. The
average level of equipment provision in relation to standard lists is about
54% and the project-financed equipment would help to raise this level to
around 76% by 1998. Equipment to be procured under the project (estimated
baseline cost, US$10 million) would help to modernize laboratories and
workshops and this would result in the project institutions producing better-
trained technicians relevant to the needs of industry. Equipment would be
identified by participating institutions from standard lists available for
each department. Consolidated lists would be sent to MOE for final review.
2.14      Vocational High Schools.  Operational responsibility for the VHSs
lies with the local (i.e. provincial or municipal) Offices of Education (OEs)
under the overall authority of the Ministry of Education. MOE would be
responsible for allocating loan proceeds for equipment procurement (estimated
baseline cost, US$20 million) among the OEs on the basis of overall
development priorities and their regional implications. In this regard, MOE
would continue the role it is playing under the ongoing vocational education
projects. Since the OEs are closest to the schools and therefore in the best
position to understand their needs, they would have responsibility for the
selection of schools to participate in the project. Each OE would select the
schools mainly on the basis of the level of overall equipment provision in the
schools, with the most disadvantaged being given priority. Account would also
be taken of the needs of newly-established schools and new departments in
existing schools. It is expected that about 150 VHSs would participate in the
project.  In the interests of equity, public and private schools would be
treated equally in the application of selection criteria. Each school would
determine its equipment requirements and these would be reviewed by the OE and
amendments made as necessary. OEs would then compile consolidated equipment
lists and send them to the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK) for
procurement. During negotiations, the Government agreed that schools would be
selected to participate in the project according to criteria acceptable to the
Bank.
9/   Under two previous projects (Lns. 3314-KO and 3469-KO), a total of US$60
million is being provided for re-equipping selected VHSs with up-to-date
equipment to ensure that training keeps pace with technological changes
in industry. The project's VHS component would continue this support
and extend coverage to most of the remairing schools in the VHS system.
Policy changes under the project relating to vocational education will
build on the changes being identified and implemented under Ln. 3469-KO.



- 16 -
2.15      Korea Basic Science Center.  Equipment to be procured under the
project (estimated baseline cost, US$20 million) would be allocated partly to
the main campus at Daeduk (US$13 million) with the remaining US$7 million
gcing to the four regional centers. Equipment for Daeduk would comprise
mainly expensive items, typically in the range US$0.4-1 million, which would
su.pport basic research in such fields as measurement of plasma electron
density and temperature, superconductivity, trace element analysis of
insulators, paramagnetism, etc. Equipment for the regional centers would
extend their range of analytical services to local universities and other
institutions. The demand for such services is rising rapidly, from 204
services provided to 131 clients in 1990 to about 1400 services for 700
clients in 1992 (on an annualized basis). Equipment items in the regional
centers would be less expensive, typically US$0.2 million or less. The more
expensive items would include several types of electron microscope, a DNA
synthesizer, gas/liquid chromatograph, etc. Equipment lists were identified
within KBSC by working groups representing the central laboratories and the
regional centers. Physical facilities (estimated baseline cost, US$8.8
million), in which equipment would be located, are being constructed for KBSC,
mainly in the regional centers. Facilities will be completed during 1994.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$324.8 million
equivalent, net of duties and taxes, consisting of US$239.7 million foreign
expenditures and US$85.1 local expenditures. The estimated cost by project
component is summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in
Table 3.2. Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 4 and
project expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 5.
3.2       Base costs are estimated at July 1993 prices.  Equipment costs are
estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent catalogue
prices. Civil works costs were provided by the Government and are based on
contract awards for similar facilities in Korea. Transportation and
installation costs, the initial supply of consumables and the costs of
operations and maintenance are based on recent experience in project
institutions. Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at
US$19.8 million.
3.3       The contingency allowance of US$62 million (about 24% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
baseline costs for equipment, civil works, transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures. Price increase
contingencies were calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance
with the following expected annual average price increase percentages:
foreign cost, 2.8% in FY94 and thereafter and local cost, 4.5% in FY94 and 4%
thereafter. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about
12% of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 17 -
Table 3.1:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Won Billion                          USS Million                 Foreign
Local iForeign    Totat             Local    Foreign    Total            as X
of total
Engineering Departments                            13.7         48.6      62.3          17.4       61.9       79.3             78
Natural Science Departments                        10.6         36.5      47.1          13.5       46.5       60.0             78
Marine Science Departments                          4.9         16.2      21.1           6.3        20.7      27.0             77
Open Universities                                   3.3         12.1      15.4           4.3        15.5      19.8             78
Junior Technical Colleges                           2.8          8.2      11.0           3.5        10.4      13.9             75
Vocational High Schools                             4.9         16.2      21.1           6.3       20.7       27.0             77
Korea Basic Science Center                         10.4         17.6      28.0          13.3       22.5       35.8             63
Baseline cost                                      50.6        155.4    206.0           64.6       198.2    262.8              75
Contingencies
Physical                                     5.1        15.6      20.7            6.5       19.8      26.3              75
Price increases                             11.0        17.0      28.0           14.0       21.7      35.7              61
Subtotat                                           16.1         32.6      487           20.5       41.5       62.0             67
Total Proiect Cost /a                              66.7        INA.    254.7            85.1      239.7    324.8               74
/ Does not include duties. taxes and fees estimated at US$19.8 million.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Won Bitifon                          USS Million               Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total           as X
of total
Equipment                                           0.0        149.0    149.0            0.0      190.0    190.0              100
Equipment transportation and Installation           8.4          0.9       9.3          10.7         1.2      11.9             10
Operations and Maintenance                         18.4          2.0      20.4          23.4        2.6       26.0             10
Consunable materials                               18.4          2.0      20.4          23.4        2.6      26.0              10
Civil works                                         5.4          1.5       6.9           7.0         1.8      8.8              20
Baseline cost                                                  15.4    216.0            64.6      I98.2    2Z.                 75
Contingencies
Physical                                          5.1         15.6      20.7           6.5       19.8      26.3              75
Price increase                                   11.0         17.0      28.0          14.0       21.7      35.7              61
Subtotal                                           16.1          2.06 48.               3.5        41.5      62.0             67
Total orolect cost                                 66.7        188.0    254.7           85.1      239.7    324.8               74



- 18 -
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$239.7 million (about 742 of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: equipment - 100l, civil works - 20X,
transportation and installation - 102, consumables - 10  and O&M - 10%.
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$190 million equivalent would finance about
79X of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 58% of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 42% or US$134.8 million equivalent. The loan
amount is limited to US$190 million by the foreign borrowing program and is
therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would
finance 1002 of the baseline cost of equipment and all contingencies would be
financed by the government. The loan amount would be allocated as follows:
engineering departments, US$60 million; natural science departments, US$45
million; marine science departments, US$20 million; open universities, US$15
million; junior technical colleges, US$10 million; vocational high schools,
US$20 million; and KBSC, US$20 million. Equipment procured under the project
for private universities and JTCs would be financed on the basis of subsidiary
loans by the Government to the institutions on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank!J'. The terms of the subsidiary loans would be the
same as those for the Bank loan. Loan funds for the public institutions would
be passed on as budget transfers by MOE.  Due to the limited financial
capacities of private VHSs, they would also receive loan funds as transfers
from MOE.
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate annual recurrent
costs for equipment-related consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$15.2
million p.a. Within this total, the university departments, open universities
and JTCs would account for US$12 million. This would be spread over
approximately 90 institutions thus averaging about US$133,000 per institution.
For the VHSs, additional recurrent costs would be US$1.6 million spread over
approximately 150 institutions or about US$11,000 per institution. KBSC would
face additional recurrent costs of around US$1.6 million. These additional
expenditures could be accommodated by the institutions without difficulty.
10/ Procedures for drawing up equipment lists and procuring equipment (para.
3.8) would be the same for both the public and private institutions.



- 19 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                Government        IBRD         Total
------------US$ million-----------
Equipment                                   -           190.0        190.0
Equipment transportation
and installation                        11.9            -           11.9
Operations and maintenance                26.0            -           26.0
Consumable materials                      26.0            -           26.0
Civil works                                8.8            -            8.8
Contingencies                             62.0            -           62.0
Total                                134.8          190.0        324.8
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
the Education Facilities Bureau (EFB) of MOE - an agency that has gained
considerable experience in implementing Bank projects through its
responsibility for earlier Bank operations.  Physical aspects of the project
would be handled within EFB by the Education Loan Projects Division (ELPD)
including relations with OSROK for equipment procurement.  Assistance on
educational issues would be provided by the University Education Office of MOE
for the university components. Similar assistance would be provided by the
Junior College Academic Affairs Division for the JTC component and by the
Vocational Education Division for the VHS component. An organization chart
for MOE is given in Annex 6. The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), which
is operational under Lns. 3203-KO and 3468-KO, would also be responsible for
general oversight of this project. The PCC would assist in coordination
between participating bodies, provide policy advice on project-related matters
and resolve major problems which might arise during project implementation.
The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7. The Education Loan
Projects Division would be responsible for routine correspondence and
reporting to the Bank, and for financial and disbursement matters. ELPD has
played this role in previous Bank projects and is staffed with experienced
personnel. KBSC would implement its part of the project through the Loan
Project Implementation Unit, which was set up under Ln. 3315-KO and is
functioning effectively.
3.8       The bulk of the work in equipment procurement would be undertaken
by OSROK, which is highly experienced in procuring equipment under the Bank's
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Project institutions
under MOE would provide equipment lists and specifications to OSROK through
ELPD. On the basis of these, OSROK would prepare bidding documents, invite
bids, evaluate them in conjunction with ELPD and the institutions and make



- 20 -
contract awards with their agreement. OSROK would provide similar assistance
directly to KBSC. The project institutions would be responsible for
installation, initial testing and operation of the equipment, unless specified
in the equipment contract that the supplier would perform these tasks. The
institutions would also be responsible for maintenance and repair of the
equipment including acquisition of spare parts, accessories and consumables,
beyond the items and services initially supplied under the contract.
3.9       The Bank would supervise the project twice yearly around March and
September coinciding as far as possible with the preparation of the semi-
annual progress reports (para. 3.15). The Policies and Actions Program would
be reviewed annually. The reviews would focus on the achievement of
quantitative targets relating to faculty recruitment, student admission
quotas, academic research subsidies, student/faculty ratios, equipment supply
in relation to standard requirements, etc.W1  Progress in achieving non-
quantitative actions such as the activities of the task forces on the OUs and
on vocational education, would also be reviewed annually. A major mid-term
implementation review would be carried out around March 1997. This would
evaluate overall progress under the PAP as well as the procurement of project-
financed equipment and its utilization in the institutions. Overall
implementation issues would be handled by the task manager, assisted by a
procurement specialist and an institutional development specialist. A
supervision plan is given in Annex 8.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.10      The advanced stage of project preparation would allow
implementation to commence immediately after loan signing. The marine science
institutions and the open universities selected to participate in the project
have been identified and equipment lists and outline specifications prepared.
Criteria for the selection of other participating institutions have been
prepared and are acceptable to the Bank. Project management authorities have
been identified and competent staff are available to handle implementation
activities. Implementation arrangements, including those for coordination
between project agencies, have been agreed.
Procurement
3.11      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85% of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in
contracts valued at less than US$300,000 may be procured up to an aggregate
limit of US$23 million through local competitive bidding procedures, or for
contracts below $50,000, through shopping procedures (aggregate limit US$11.4
million) allowing for the comparison of quotations from at least three
eligible suppliers. Local equipment manufacturers would be extended a 15%
11/ The monitoring of these targets together with those related to the
supply and utilization of equipment would provide the basis for
assessing project outcomes.



- 21 -
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is the lower,
on bid evaluation under ICB. Local transportation, operations and maintenance
costs on equipment, would be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not included in
the equipment contracts, would also be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Civil works, to be financed by the Government, would be procured
through established local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total cost
Procurement Method                  including
Category of expenditure       ICB       LCB    Other L/        NBF contingencies
--------- (US$ million) ----------------
Equipment                   195.6      23.0      11.4        -         230.0
(161.5)    (19.0)     (9.5)                (190.0)
Equipment transportation
and installation                 -              -        15.1         15.1
(0.0)       (0.0)
Operations and maintenance   -          -         -         34.9        34.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Consumable materials          -         -         -         34.9        34.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Civil works                             -         -          9.9         9.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                 1:956       123104              94.
(161.5)    (19.0)     (9.5)      (0.0)     (190.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan.
NBF:   Not Bank-financed.
A/     Includes international and local shopping.
3.12      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards!V. However, complete bidding
documents including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and technical
specifications would be sent to the Bank before each invitation to bid. Bid
12/ OSROK has had long experience in procuring equipment under the Bank's
ICB procedures. It is well-staffed with competent personnel. OSROK's
record in the implementation of ongoing education and technology
advancement projects has been exemplary.



- 22 -
evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be retained by OSROK for ex-
post review by Bank missions.
Disbursements
3.13      The proposed loan of US$190 million would be disbursed over a
period of 5.5 years (Annex 9). This corresponds to the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion
date of the project would be June 30, 1999 and the closing date December 31,
1999. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment or, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65% of local expenditures
for other equipment items procured locally. Reimbursement for each equipment
contract of US$300,000 equivalent or more, would be fully documented.
Reimbursement for each contract of less than US$300,000, would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE) for which full supporting documentation would
be retained in MOE and KBSC respectively, for review as requested, by visiting
Bank missions. Administrative and accounting capability in MOE is adequate to
support the SOE procedure.
3.14      To facilitate disbursements, special accounts for MOE and KBSC,
maintained in US dollars, would be set up separately at the Korea Exchange
Bank in amounts of US$11.3 million and US$2 million respectively, to cover the
estimated average amount required to finance project expenditures for the next
four months. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be
submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or whenever the amount requested
exceeds one-third of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that withdrawal applications
would not be made in respect of engineering and natural science departments,
JTCs and VHSs until these institutions had been selected in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank. The Government also agreed, during
negotiations, that withdrawal applications would not be made in respect of
participating private universities and JTCs until such institutions had
entered into subsidiary loan agreements with the Government.
Accounts. Audits and Reporting
3.15      MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that audited accounts, including the special account and SOE, would be sent to
the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. Audit reports
would include a separate opinion for expenditures under SOE procedures. The
Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank in March and
September, provide status reports for visiting missions and, within six months
of the closing date, submit Part II of the Project Completion Report.



- 23 -
D. Environmental Impact
3.16      The marine science component of the project would strengthen
environment-related teaching and research programs in selected marine science
institutions.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would assist in strengthening the S&T education policy
framework thereby improving quality and relevance. Policies would address a
range of institutional improvements including increased faculty recruitment,
improved institutional evaluation and strengthened links with the labor
market. The provision of specialized equipment would also help to improve the
quality of science and engineering programs, strengthen basic research in the
natural sciences and upgrade lower-level technical skills. This in turn would
contribute to a stronger science and technology infrastructure which is the
basis of Korea's priority for technology - intensive industrialization.
Environmental aspects of marine science education and research would also be
enhanced. Additionally, the project would assist in raising the quality of
technical training for lower socio-economic groups, which are served by the
open universities and the JTCs, thereby enhancing their prospects for
employment.
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government has agreed to the following:
(a)  actions would be implemented and progress in meeting targets
monitored in accordance with the agreed Policies and Actions
Program (para. 2.8);
(b)  institutions would be selected to participate in the project in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.10, 2.13
and 2.14);
(c)  withdrawal applications would not be made in respect of engineering
and natural science departments, JTCs and VHSs until these
institutions had been selected in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank (para 3.14);
(d) withdrawal applications would not be made in respect of
participating private universities and JTCs until such institutions



- 24 -
had entered into subsidiary loan agreements with the Government
(para. 3.14);
(e) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.15);
(f) semi-annual progress reports would be submitted in March and
September of each year (para. 3.15); and
(g) within six months of the closing date, Part II of the project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.15).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$190 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



Annex 1
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Korea Basic Science Center
President of
KBSC
Seoul Branch
Pusan Branch
Taegu Branch
Kwangiu Branch
Advanced Analysis                      Joint Research                          Office of
Division      J                      Division                         Technical Support
Office Of
Magnetic     j                      Joint Plasma                         Scientific
Resonance Lab                          Research facility  |nomao
Mass                              HihMagnetic                          Office of
Spectrometer Lab                        ifeld Faclity    jAdministration
Loan Project
  Electron                          Scientific                    Implementation Unit
Microscope Lab                    _       famciiogty
Isotopic
Analysis Lab                                                                 sadskw53719



KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECiHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Poiicies and Action. Proaram
A. Departnments of Natural Science and Engineering
Issue                           Policies/Plans                  Actions/Monitorable Targets
Inadequate supply of industrial  Increase undergraduate         (1) Student quotas will be adjusted to provide higher Increases in science and engineering fields
manpower in both science and    enrollment ratios in the fieds of    then in humanities fields, for achieving the planned structural change in enrollments. The admnission
engineering fields to meet      science end engineering relative    quota targets afe as follows;-
Industrial requirements.        to humanities from 53:47 in
1992 to 56:44 in 1996 and       Year  In Sc. and En(AI      tn Humanities(BI    TotEa    Percentage ratio A:B
57.43 in 1998.
1992      102,000            90,000         192,000        53:47
1996     123,000             97.000         220,000        56:44
1998      131,000            100.000         231,000        57:43
12) The plan wili be reviewed by MOE in 1996 vis-a-vis:
(a) industrial manpower requirements
Ibl total numbers of high school graduates
Ic) epplicants/capacity ratio In each major field
Id) rate of employment within a pre-determined period after graduation for each major field, and
(e) starting salaries of graduates in each major field.
Admission quotas after 1996 may be revised accordingly.
0iQ :3
(D X
0
Y'l



Issues                         Policies/Plans                 Actions/Monitorable Target
Inadequate level of equipment in    To raise gradually within  (1) An equipment improvement budgetary plan has been made to raise the provision
laboratories to meet curricula's  government budget limits, the  rate of equipment as compared with standard lists. The plan allocates Wont 211
practical requirements endr    provision rate of equipment to  billion for 1992-96 and this will raise the provision level of equipment from 26% in
consequently the Inability to meet   100% of standard lists for each    1992 to 70% in 1996.
industry's quality requirements for  category of laboratory.
new recruits.                                                 (2) The target for the facilities improvement plan is Won 335 billion during 1992-96.
To provide increased budgetary
Shortage of laboratories and   provisions for the improvement of  (3) Number of equipment maintenance and repair centers will be increased from one in
workshops                      physical facilities.           1992 to five in 1996 and to remain at five in 1998.
Inadequate repair and                                         (4) Libraries will be expanded, modernized and linked with a national comnputerized
maintenance facilities                                        library automation network to cover 41 by 1998. iibrary seats will be increased from
14% of student enrollment in 1992 to 18.5% in 1996 and 20% in 1998. Regulations
Shortages of teaching materials,                              defining basic library book needs will be introduced by 1996 for undergraduate and
books and journals in an out-of-                              graduate students and a standard rule for the supply of library books published.
date library system.
(5) The standard lists of equipment including estimated costs by each category of
laboratories andlor workshops, if not yet prepared, will be compiled and updated
periodically. Whon completed, the overall average provision rate will be used to monitor
progress in meeting full equipment needs as defined in the standard lists.
>
W Z
mv :3
m X
x
0



Issue                          Policies                       Action/Monitoring Targets
Quality of education has been  To recruit more qualified faculty   01  The number of professors will be increased annually by about 430 i science and 620 in
adversely affected because of  locally and from abroad.       engineering leading to a decrease in student/faculty ratios and reduction in teaching load. The
high student/faculty ratios,                                  targets are as follows;
excessive teaching loads       To recruit one faculty member for
and poor research condions.    each additional 20 enrollments In   Year  No. of Faculty      S/F Ratio       Teaching Load
the annual quotas for science and      Science     Eng.      Science  Eng.    Science and Eng.
engineering.
1992     7,900      6,500     26      37           12
In order to strengthen links with    1996  9,600   9,000      22      28          10
industry, a program of part-time    1998    10,500  10,250    20      25           9
visiting professors from industry
will be established.
(2) About 80 visiting professors will be engaged in 1994, 100 in 1996 and 120 in 1998.
To increase support for research
and to enable more research    (3) The budget for academic research subsidies will be increased from
work to be performed through
the increase of number of                     20 billion won in 1992 to
professors, reduction of S/F ratio            70 billion won in 1996 and
and reduction of teaching load.               100 billion won in 1998
(43 The Interim achievements will be reviewed by MOE in 1996 and targets for 1998 may be
modified in light of the review.
(D 0
x
t'



B. Open Universkies
Issues                           Poncie                          Actlons/Monttorable Tergets
The main objective of the open   To reverse the current enrollment   1) The twelve OUs vwil operate with the admission of sppflcants from industry
university system defined under  trend and retum to the original  as first priority. Enrollment pattems will be changed over time to reflect this
Education Law 128-8. is to provide   objecuve.                   priority, with the proportion of adult students rising as the proportion of new
opportunities for college education                               high school graduate enrollment fals. The student enrollment pattern in the 12
to those who have finished or    In the short-tomredrium term, the    institutions will be monitored in accordance with the following targets:
interrupted a fixed term of school    OUs need to be strengthened in
education and desire to continue  order to raise the quality of    Year           1994      1996      1998
with further education, retraining,    existing programs. This will               ratio    ratio      ratio
or improvenent of knowledge and   require the re-equipping of    Those admnitted    50      55         60
skills with a strong focus on    laboratories and improvement of    from Industry
technical fields,                staffing.                       Those admitted    50       45         40
from other sources
In recent years, the OU system has   For the long term, operations of
deviated from this objective.    the OUs need to be reviewed and   (2) Additional financial support will be provided to the existing OUs to improve
Enrollment patterns show that the    appropriate changes made as  equipment levels. Tht. budgetary provision targets are;
OUs have served Increasingly the    necessary in relation to their basic
needs of high school graduates   objectives and clientele.                           1994       1996       1998
seeking full-time higher education                                                             (billion won)
rather than adult students from                                  Nadonal instiutions    1.1       1.5      1.9
industry.                                                         Private institutions  0.5       0.6      0.7
TOTAL         1.6       2.1       2.6
A second objective of the OUs is
to provide technologists for                                     Equipment provision rate will ncrease trom 26% in 1992 to 70% in 1996 and
industry trained In skills which are                              100% in 1998.
more practically.oriented than
university engineering programs. It                              (3) A plan for raising the industrial experience of OU faculty would be
is questionable as to whether the                                implemented in 1994 which would:(a) relax teaching experience requirements
OUs are structured and focussed                                  and place more emphasis on industrial experience; and (b) introduce a rotation
properly to meet this objective.                                  system for existing fao,ulty to work in industry.
(4) Staffing quotas will be increased from 5 professors per department of 1 60
students to 6 professors per department of 160 students to reduce teaching
load and Improve teaching quality.
(5j MOE has established a task force on open universities which will report by
May 31, 1994 on the following points:
(a) The needs of industry for further skills development among workers.
(b1 The learning needs of individuals who are adult students or potential
students in terms of further skillsenowledge development.
(c) The adequacy of existing curricula in relation to needs.
(di The modes of delivery of existing programs with special emphasis on                D
meeting the learning needs of part-time atueaits.                                  o 
(a) Adequacy of OUTAndustry cooperatior.                                             (o XE
(f) The budgeting (including staffing) requirements of OU                             4 
development over the next five years.                                              o
(g) Student selection and admission methods in relation to OU objectives.
(hi Operational evaluation of OUs.                                                   OC



C. Junior Technical Colleges
kssues                           Policies                        Actions/Monitorable Taraets
Inadequate supply of industrial  Student quotas and number of    (1) Student quotas will be increased as follows:
manpower at the technician level    departments will be increased in
to meet i-dustry's requirement.    junior technical colleges.      Year                       1992      1996      1998
Lack of an effective link between    Educational conditions will be  Admission quota in all junior   159,000   211,000  231,000
JTCs and industry which would   improved in junior technical     colleges
ensure that training is relevant to    colleges in order to raise quality.    As % age of population at age 18   18%  27%    30%
industry's needs.                                                As % age of high school graduates  21 %  33%    36%/
JTClindustry cooperation        Admission quota for technical fields 75,000   106,000  118,000
Quality of present output from   conmmittees would be introduced
junior technical colleges is below  with appropriate terms of    (2) Number of professors in JTCs will be increased and
Industry's requirement. Quality is   reference and membership.   student/faculty ratios decreased. The targets are as follows.
adversely affected by:
The evaluation process for junior  Year               1992      1996      1998
Shortage of professors and the   colleges will be strengthened.
consequent high                                               Number of professors   4,000    5,700      6800
student/faculty ratio,                                        Student/faculty ratio   29        27        25
Professors' lack of industrial                                (3) 30 JTCfindustry cooperation committees would be set up by
experience,                                                   1996 and 53 by 1998.
Low equipment provision level                                (4) Equipment level will be raised and the target provision rate will
and inadequate recurrent                                      increase from 54% in 1992 to 70% in 1996 and reach 76% in
budget provision                                              1998. Corresponding capital investment will be about 14 billion
won in 1993, 63 billion won in 1996 and 79 billion won in 1998.
Lack of an effective evaluation
mechanism to assess course                                       (5) Korea Council for Junior College Education will be given the
quality, adequacy of professors,                                 overall responsibility for evaluation of junior colleges and the
equipment level, amount of                                       submission of reports to the Ministry of Education with
financial support, employers views                               tecommendations for changes and improvements. KCJCE will be
on quality of graduates, etc, has                                strengthened so that by 1995 it can assume responsibility for
been inadequate.                                                 overseeing the annual self-evaluation of colleges and for carrying
out petiodic major evaluations.
(D MD
rDrX
c-n
NU,
0



D. Vocational High 8chools (VHS)
Issues                                   PoliciestPlans                       ActionstMonitorable Targeta
The changing structure of demand for VHS    The needed structural changes will be    (1) Structural change in (a) percentage of enrollments in
graduates needs to be reflected in the  made to reflect the growth in demand    VHSs by field; and (b) ratios in GHSs and VHSs will be
enrollment structure.                    for technical manpower in comparison    made according to the following targets:
with other fields in the VHS system
A number of quality improvement issues  and also the balance between               Year       1992    1996   1998
need to be addressed. These include     enrollments in technical and non-
enhanced practice work, improved training    technical courses in the overall hgh  (a)
of vocational teachers, better equipped  school system. The latter, which is  Technical field   34%    42%    45%
workshops, improved linkages between    currently 67:33 will become 63:37 by    Non-technical field 66%    58%  55%
employers and VHSs and more effective    1996 and 61:39 by 1998.
long term planning to ensure that the VHS                                    (bl
system is able to meet future requirements    The system of joint practice centers  General High  67%  63%    61%
for skilled workers in a changing labor  will be expanded, the provision of  Schools
market.                                  workshop equipment raised and the   Vocational High   33%    37%     39%
revised, more practically-oriented  Schools
curriculum, implemented.
(2) Number of joint practice centers in the VHS system will
Under the Vocational Schools        be increased from 21 in 1992 to 28 in 1996 and 30 in
Development Project (Loan 3469-KO)  1998.
which became effective in September
1992, studies are included to address    (3) Provision rate of equipment in VHS will be increased
the issues of improved VHStemployer    from 44% in 1992 to 64% in 1996 and 70% in 1998.
linkages, improved vocational teacher    Implementation of the sixth revision of the VHS curricula
training and long-term structural   began in 1992 for grade 10 and will be completed in 1995
change in the VHS system. A study   for all three grades - 10, 11 and 12.
has been completed on raising the
effectiveness of joint practice centers    (4) A task force will be established in mid-1997 to evaluate
and this will be implemented during  implementation of the recommendations from the studies
1993-98. The recently-prepared (June   carried out under Loan 3469-KO and those
1993) five-year plan for technical  recommendations related to the VHS system included in the
manpower development provides policy  five-year technical manpower plan. It will report its findings
guidance for future VHS developmnent.   to the MOE by December 31, 1997.
(D rD
x
C'
0
M'



Annex 3
REEUBLIC  OE  KOREA                     Page 1 of 4
W1UN4ISIRY  QF  EDUCATICON
,u  Gautam S. Kaji                                               (Eate) zC/
Vice President
!Fast Asia & Pacific Regicn
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dcar Mr. KaJi.
Implementation of Improvement Aeasures in Science and Technical Educaticn
The Science and Technical Education Project brings to a close the long and
successful association between Korea and IBRD  in  the  education  field.          The
Project represents the final opportunity for my Hinistry to work with IBRD In
identifying the changes and specifying the targets which will improve science
and technical(S&T) education  in the years  ahead.   In the past, the value  added
from policy guidance and technical advice has had a substantial impact in addition
to the financial resource transfer which has focused vainly on the procurement of
equipment.   Even so. the financing of a wide ranse of equipment  under the present
Project will have a particularly strong impact on improving the effectiveness of
faculty  in  the  participating  institutions.         Although  we need  to  expand
recruitment, existing faculty are generally well-qualified which is the result
cf  past  emphasis  on  developing  our  human  resources.    However.  there  are
significant shcrtages of specialized teaching and research equipment with which
the  faculty  must  work.  if  they  are  to  perform  effectively.  IBRD-assisted
prciccts make an impcctant contribution to filling this gap.        At the same time,
the risorous approach  to  relating  equipment  needs  to  teaching  and  research
cbjectives  ensures  that  the  equipment  supplied  ls  highly  relevant  to  our
requirements.
I wculd like to refer nco to the measures being Proposed for the improvement
c S&T educaticn which are included in the Policies and Actions Program of the
Science and Technical Education Project.       The Program. which is attached as the
Annex to this letter. is an integral part of the Project. It identifies a number
of key issues in science and technical education, outlines the policies and plans
which have been formulated to address these issues and specifies the actions and
mcnitorable targets necessary for their implemetntation.    The Prosram covers four
maicr areas - natural science and engineering departments in the universities,
the open universities, junicr technical colleges and vocational high schools.



2-                                Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
Within science and engineering.  the aim is  to ensure that  the universities
c..n mcet the needs for scientific  and  engineering manpower  in  an economy which
is bcth expanding and changing structurally to become more technology intensive.
This means that quantitatively, demand  in the labor market must be met  to ensure
that shortages of technical manpower do not develop and qualitatively, that the
scientists and engineers produced by the universities are adequately prepared for
employment In a changing labor market.          In line  with this aim.  we  plan  to
increase annual student admission quotas (1992-1998) in science and engineering by
29.000 subject to a review in 1996 tc ensure that  thisf expansicn is justified.
To address quality improvement, we intend to raise the level of equipment
provision in the laboratories to 70% of standard requirements by 1996 to ensure
that the well-qualilied faculty can perform more effectively.   Equipment mainte-
nance and repair faAilities will be expanded to ensure that the increasing stock
of equipment Is properly maintained.    In addition, libraries  will be expanded.
collections  improved  and   automated   links   between   university   libraries
strengthened to enhance information flows.   Additional faculty will be recruited
to reduce student/staff ratios and a prosram of visiting professcrs from industry
instituted to strengthen university/industry links.    Research funding will also
be increased to broaden research opportunities for faculty.
Regarding the open universities, there is concern that they have deviated
from their original goal of providing furthe.- education to mature, working
students. The strong demand for university places from high school graduates has
led to an excessive enrollment of these graduates at the expense of adult
students. The current admission ratio of 50:50 between graduates of hlgh schools
and entrants from industries will be changed to around 40:60 by 1998.
Thus in that year,it is expected that 60% of new enrollments will be adult students.
Quality improvement would be pursued in the open universities through
modifying the qualifications of faculty to place greater emphasis on industrial
experience. Staffing quotas would be increased to reduce teaching load and raise
the quality of teaching.   In support of these Improvements, additional resources -
will be provided to finance equipment to raise the provision level to 100% by
1998.   In order  to  ensure  that  the  open  universities  would achieve  their
objectives over the long term, a task force has been establlsbed which would
report by mid-1994.   Its  overall  mandate  is  to  provide  guidance  aimed  at
redirecting the open universities towards their original objectives.         The task
force would also make recommendations aimed at ensuring that the learning needs
of individuals and the skill needs of industry are wet. curricula and sodes of
dnlivery are appropriate, instituticna'/industry  ccoperation  is  effective  and
long-term resource needs are adequate.



Annex 3
3 -                                Page 3 of 4
Within the junior college system, there will be a shift in admissicn quotas
in favor of the junior technical colleses. in order ta ensure that the increasing
domand of industry for technicians is met.   Admissions to the JTCs  will increase
from 75.000 in 1992 to 118,000 in 1998.        In  support  of  quality  improvement.
faculty recruitment will be expanded to reduce the student/staff ratio to 25:1
by 1998.   The qualifications of faculty  will be changed  to emphasize industrial
experience.    To ensure strcnger linkages with industry. JTC/industry cooperation
committees will be introduced and 53 are expected to be established by 1998.
Equipment provision.will be raised to 76% by 1998.
One of the major weaknesses of the JTC system is the lack of an effective
mecbanism for evaluating institutional performance.    Such a mechanism was set up
for the universities  under  the  First  Education  Sector  Loan.            A similar
mechanism will be established for the JTCs.   The Korea Council for Junior College
Educaticn will be suitably strengthened so that by 1995 it can take responsibility
for overseeing the annual self-evaluation of colleges and for carrying out periodic
major  evaluations.    The  Council  will report  to  the  Ministry  of  Education
with recommendations for changes and Improvements.   This system of evaluation for
the JTCs will eventually be expanded to cover the whole junior college systeu.
Within the vocational high school system, several impcrtant issues are
being studied  under the Vocational Schools Development Project.   These relate to
reforming the structure of vocational education to ensure that the demand for
skilled workers continues to be met in a changing labor market. improving
vocational teacher development, strengthening employer/VHS linkages and Improving
the operation of joint practice centers.         A  study  on  the  latter  has  been
completed.   Implementation of the recommendations of  these  studies  Is expected
to begin in 1994.    The  present  Project  provides  a  valuable  opportunity  to
evaluate policy changes In the VHS system and to make further adjustments as
necessary. A task force will be set up to do this by mId-1997.
The VHSs train the skilled craftsman which are the underpinning of the
technical  wcrkforce.    In response to  rising  demand  for  technically  trained
craftsmen. the enrollment structure In the VHSs will be modified to increase
cnrollments in technical fields at the expense of other (mainly commercial and
agricultural) fields.   Enrollments in technical courses  will Increase  from  34%
in 1992 to 45% in 1998.   Greater efficiency in the use of  specialized  equipment
will be achieved through expanding the number of joInt practice centers from 21
in 1992 to 30 in 1998.   The Provision rate  of equipment  will rise  from  44% In
1M2 to 'I% in 19S8 and intreAuction of th* recent$vy-revised vocationaX curricutuu
will be completed by 1995.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
IBRD has supported technology development In Korea fcr more than two
decades. This support has been broad and has included direct assistance to
industry  and assistance  to  agencies  financing  R&D programs.    A key area  of
support  has  been  for  expansion  and  qualitative  improvement  in  science and
technical educatlon to ensure an adequate  supply  of trained  manpower  which  is
crucial to Korea's strategy of technology-intensive Industrialization.         The two
sector loans In the  1980s  helped  to  strengthen  the  policy  frauwork  in  S&T
educatlon through  improvements  in  evaluation  and  accreditation.  science  and
cngineering curricula, enrollment procedures and examinations. faculty improvement.
equipment provision. etc.
These changes have provided appropriate guidance over the past decade.
:1owever, we must now  look towards to  the next decade.   This will be a period of
accelerating technological change and Korea's S&T education system will be
challenged to respond by ensuring that it ccntinues to produce.  in  quantity  and
quality, the necessary skilled manpower to support the country's technological
advancement.   The  Policies  and  Actions  Program   will   make   an   important
contribution to this.   It builds on the policy dialogue and changes of  the  past
decade and will provide necessary suidance for the next one.           This  will  be
strongly reinforced by the financing of specialized equipment under the Poriect
which will make our well-qualified faculty more effective in their teaching and
research activities.
I look forward to the successful implementation of the proposed Project.
Sincerely yours.
BYUNG MOON CH                 *1VAL
Minister of Educ
Republic of Korea



Aznnex 4
KCRE
SCtENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATtON PROJECT
Detailed Prolect      Comt YCaonent and Categorv
(Won miLlion)
Equipment      Equipment         0&M      Consumbte          Civil          Total Cost
Transportation            materiaLs          Works         WorV4       USm
and
mnstaLLation
Engineering Departments               47,100              2,827       6,186         6,186                        62,299      79.3
NaturaL Science Departments           35,325             2.134        4,836         4,836             -         47,131       60.0
Marine Science Departments             15,700               941       2,261         2,261             -          21,163      27.0
Open Universities                      11,775               706       1,507         1,507                        15,495      19.8
Junior Technical Colleges               7,850              802        1,130         1,130                        10,912      13.9
Vocational High Schools                15,700               941       2,261        2261              -          21,163      27.0
Korea 3asic Science Center             15,700               941       2,261         2,261         6,908          28,071      35.8
8aseline Cost                         149 t50            9.292       20.42         20.4b2         6.908        206.234      262.8
Contingencies
Physical                             14,915              929        2,044         2,044           692          20,624      26.3
Price Increase                       16,273             1,660       4,945         4,945           191         28,014       35.7
Subtotal continoencies                 31.188            2.589        6.989         6.989           883          48.638      62.0
Total Project Cost
Won miLLion                         180.338            11.881      27.431        27:431         7.791         254.872
USS miLLion                           229.9                          3 34.9           99.9                                324.8



Annex 5-
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Prolect Exwenditure by Year and Recidient
Base Costs (Won Billion)                         Total Cost
94/5     95/6      96/7      97/8       98/9      99/00         Won N        USSm
Engineering Departments            1,790    7,285    14,052    19,468    11,775       7,929        62,299        79.3
Natural Soience Departments          895    4,537    12,905    17,380      7,756      3,658        47,131        60.0
Marine Science Departments           895    3,642     4,789     6,892      2,857      2,088        21,163        27.0
Open Universities                      -    1,790     2,810     6,578      2,543      1,774        15,495        19.8
Junior Technical Colleges              -    1,790     2,952     4,082      1,460        628        10,912        13.9
Vocational High Schools              895    3,642     4,789     6,892      2,857      2,088        21,163        27.0
Korea Basic Science Center         7,803    3,642     4,789     6,892     2,857       2,088        28,471        35.8
Baseline Cost                     12.278   26.328    47.086    68.184    32.105      20.253       206.234       262.8
Contingencies
Physical                         1,228    2,633     4,708     6,819     3,211       2,025        20,624       26.3
Price increase                     290    1,482     4,549     9,507     6,496       5,690        28,014        35.7
Total Project Cost                13.796   30.443    56.343    84.510    41.812      27.968       254,872      324.8
Foreign Exchange                  6,878   26,628    47,535    68,889    26,345       11,829       188,104       239.7



KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizatilon of the Ministry of Education
Mlnstet
PtbEgc ylon nalon                                  Ementstaoy a              Tdob                  Educatlen Facntils      UnlgsitE
Edtucatbon 8tkieau      Education Bureau
Erner              I _        _       _ Pnng        AdrntIstratlon             Education            FaOcMles Plnnig               AdrrdnistratEn
Ofilcer                                          Division                 Division                                               fflocer
School Finance         Science Educatbon         Educaton Loan             University Educathon
Division                Division                 DPvjet                    Studet Attalrs
Inspectot     .I _Oti 
ln~ctor  Compulsory    Junibt Co"ge               Equlmeni
Education              Administrative           Management
Dlvison                 Dlvsbon                  Dlvision                National Education
r  I                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Olvision     J                                Early Childhood         Acadetmc Allaks            Consttuct_o
Educaron '  .                                        O I  '   *s*  *or               I
Planning &    1        St  r      ls   I                           I   Teacher Ahffas             Nonlora        (1 niversity Education
,texxl,ok                                         Buraunternaina                                    Admidnistration
ZuLu            1111111                                                    T               1 1 1 1| University Education
I                                                                                   . r . . ' X - | Finance Division
I lIer a                  Txibnk               Chiel Supervisor for       Teacher Affairs                                    Uieston-Fodcalation
|    Budget Ofilcet    | C| Oftiler      |     Education RFeseach            Division            Promotion Divson  |Acadermi AEuatrsl
I Admhttate      l  urrkhrn I  IChllSuezkolo   |Pre-Service Teacher  Non-Service Teacher           Dtvision
Administrgtive            Ctunicuknm           Chief Suprvlsor for          Education                Education                 Sttudent Affairs
Management Ofilcer         Dovelopment             Moral l-ducatlon            Disllion                 Divislon      |anagement
Onlcor                                                                            Manag~~~~~~~~~~Itentina  ivsonmn
Legal Altairs         Senior Coordinator      Chief Supervisor for     In-Servke Teacher  |nEdnuatlional D&visbn
Ofilcer              for Humanikles            Instuction            Education Division      Cooperation Divislc          Academic Research
& At8 s         |                                                                                 Promotion Division
Chief Supervsor for       Teacher Welfare        Overseas Residents
Sttdent GuSdance        stdnt Gidance                Dlvision             Education Divisin           Studeni Guidance
tof socwu..e       ________________    ______ _ Officer                                                              |
Senior Coordinator
|ot NatUral Scdence  |ww6tse



KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar year      1994              1995              1996             1997              I 998
Bank FY    94           95                96                97                98               99           00
Quarterly   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4  1    2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
POUCIES AND ACTIONS PROGRAM
Mid-term Review                                                                                O
SELECTION AND FINAUZATION OF
INSTITUTIONS
Select. of Sc. & Eng. Depts. in about
50 universities
16 private JTCs and 150 VHS in accord-
ance with agreed criteria and guidelines
for allocation of loan proceeds
Finalization of Mar.ne Sc. Institutions, B OUss,
4 public JTCs and KBSC.
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
Phase I         Phase 11          Phase Ill
Equipment lists and specifications prepared
Bidding documents prepared
Invitation for Bids (IFB) announced                        A                 A                A
Bids evaluated
Contracts awarded _
Equipment delivered, installed, tested and
in operation
Warranty period                                _   _   _      _ _
CIVIL WORKS
Buildings of KBSC - COMPLETION
LOAN PROCESSING AND GENERAL
IMPLEMENTATION
Negotiations                                                                               l
Board Presentation                   A
Loan Signing>
Effectivenes                               Al
General Procurement Notice Advertised       A                                                                                                          x
Project Completion Date
Project Closing Date
Project Completion Report Due Date:
06/30/00
cakkw54560A



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
KORE
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                    Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                        Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/94                     Supervision Mission         Project management               1.0
Review final equipment      Procurement                      1.0
lists and specifications
for Phase I procurement
3/95                     Supervision Mission         Project management               1.0
Review semi-annual          Procurement                      1.0
progress report             Institutional Development        1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports
Review SOE documentation
Review Policies and
Actions Program (PAP)
9/95                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Review final equipment      Environmental science            2.0
lists and specifications   Procurement                       1.0
for Phase II procurement
Review progress report
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review marine science
component
3/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                      1.0
Visit selected              Institutional Development        1.0
laboratories to review
equipment utilization.
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review PAP



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
KORE
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                    Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                        Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                       1.0
Review final equipment
lists and specifications
for Phase III
procurement
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
3/97                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Mid-term review of all      Environmental science             1.0
aspects of project but      Procurement                      1.0
with particular emphasis   Institutional Development         2.0
on progress under the
PAP
9/97                     SuDervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                      1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
3/98                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Review progress report      Environmental science             1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                       1.0
evaluation reports and      Institutional Development        1.0
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
Review PAP



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates       Activity                     Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                        Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/98                    Supervision Mission          Project management               2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                       1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
3/99                     Supervision Mission        Project management                2.0
Review progress report      Institutional Development        1.0
Review PAP
9/99                     Supervision Mission         Project management               2.0
Prepare for PCR
3/00                    Completion Mission          Project management                2.0
Prepare PCR                Environmental science             2.0
Procurement                      1.0
Institutional Development        2.0



Anne-x 9
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year     Semester   Cumulative       as X of        Disbursements
and Semester -      ....US$ ------     Total                  Profile aL
(X)
1995
1              13.3kL        13.3            7
2               6.7          20.0           11                3
1996
1              15.0          35.0           18                6
2              20.0          55.0           29               18
1997
1              30.0         85.0            45               38
2              30.0        115.0            61               54
1998
1              20.0        135.0            71               70
2              20.0         155.0           82               86
1999
1              15.0        170.0            89               94
2              15.0        185.0            97               96
2000
1               5.0        190.0           100               98
2                      -                     -              100
a/    Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
b/    Initial deposit in Special Accounts.



Armex 10
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.      Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
* A-1   Problems and Issues in Science Education in Korea, Han Jong-Ha, KEDI,
September 1986.
* A-2   Education in Korea 1989-90, MOE.
* A-3   Korean Higher Education - Its Development, Aspects and Prospects,
KCUE, 1990.
A-4   Introduction to Science and Technology, Republic of Korea, MOST, 1990.
A-5   Vocational Training in Korea, MOL, 1990.
A-6   Junior College Education in Korea, 1991-92, KCJCE.
A-7   Open College Promotion Plan, Moo Keun Lee et al, April 1992.
B.      Reports and Studlies Related to the Project
B-1   A Draft Action Plan for the Science and "echnical Education Sector
Project, MOE, November 1992.
B-2   Science Education and Research Project, MOE, July 1992.
B-3   Plan for Development of Vocational High School System, MOE, undated.
B-4   Science and Technical Education Sector Project, November 1992.
**B-5   A Project of Purchasing Equipment for Research on Marine Environment
Conservation, KFMU, January 1993.
B-6   Marine Science Component Report, I. Irvine, April 1993; July 1993.
B-7   A Study on Marine Environmental Conservation and Education of
Pollution Control Technology, 1992.
**B-8   Implementation Plan and Research Equipment List with Specifications,
KBSC, October 1992.
*       See Project File for the Science Education and Libraries
Computerization Project (Loan 3468-KO).
**      Includes equipment lists.



g, , RIJS9N  1260                    1270                      10                               0          IBRD 2520O
R ~U8L4k                                                                                            K.Io.tu  10
I                      DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                      I
CHINA    1                                         OF  KOREA                            _                              L
R& ,f tCOMA J                                     (    .I
FOPEA      JAPAN                                                                                                               W<YtG O>-/KNsO  
3r?
v$UNG-tau   p                                 n                  (                     6
7CHOLNAM      <Y[2 f K                                  O          G
REP            -  p    @ '                     - REPUBUCOFKOREA
f s : ~~~SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL
OA    JN  P                                                                               3EDUCATION PROJECT
- Pdmw b
--  +, , +  Ruiroads Plnd a  ne Cmfu cf
Thi* dffi  haS  p     lpMl 4  _  Akpad
by The fb,sf
axhfe for the omm.neC                                                                                     a
ofadfl aRnd b. for the
mtwaue U#f Ter W*fordnk                                    ~-  -                                             3e*e  IuMdW
and ste boundare  thr 
any u.dm.n cn du bgC  HEW1JU                                                                         YILOMETERS
Yt6Y/                         DO                              0    20    40   60o   80   100   120   140 1O60
suchbou nd_a' ,e,. , 
12,5                   12,6                        12,7                     OMLSe
SEPTEM8Eft 1 993



