Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3693 KO
             (Science and Technical Education Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 16, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3693 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
      (b) "Education Facilities Bureau" means the Bureau established
within MOE responsible for facilities planning, equipment management
and coordination of externally financed projects;
      (c) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the Committee
established with MOE comprising the Director General Education
Facilities Bureau, Director General Non-Formal and International
Education Bureau, Director General University Education Office and
the Director General Science and Technology Education Bureau and co-
opted members as required, responsible for policy advice, general
oversight and coordination of the Project;
      (d) "Participating Institutions" means collectively the Marine
Science Departments, the Open Universities and selected Junior
Technical Colleges, Vocational High Schools and Universities with
Engineering Departments and Natural Science Departments, and the
term "Participating Institution" means any one of them;
      (e) the term "Marine Science Departments" means any of the
marine science departments of the Korea Maritime University, the
Mokpo Maritime University, the Pusan National Fisheries University,
the Tong-Yeong National Fisheries University, the Yeosu National
Fisheries University, the Cheju National University and the Kunsan
National University, and the term "Marine Science Department" means
any one of them;
      (f) "Open Universities " means any of Seoul Industrial
University, the Pusan Technical University, the Taejon Technical
University, the Samcho Industrial University, the Sangju Industrial
University, the Kwangju University, the Kyongbuk Industrial
University, the Chongbuk Industrial University, the Anseong
Technical University, the Choongju National University, the Ginju
National University and the Milyang National University and the term
"Open University" means any one of them;
      (g) "Universities" means the Universities with Engineering
Departments and Natural Science Departments selected pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.03 (a) and paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
      (h) "Policies and Actions Program" means the Borrower's
policies and plans which address relevant issues within the
education sector, and the actions and monitorable targets for the
implementation of these policies and plans;
      (i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the
Page  3
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, through MOE, and
the private open Universities, selected private Universities and
private Junior Technical Colleges pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
this Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loans" means collectively the
subsidiary loans provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
      (j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k) "KBSC Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (l) "KBSC" means the Korea Basic Science Center established by
the Borrower to provide joint research facilities in basic science
to open universities, universities and other research institutions;
      (m) "Korea Exchange Bank" means the bank established pursuant
to the provisions of the Borrower's Banking Act passed by the Korean
Assembly; and
      (n) "Won" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ONE HUNDRED NINETY MILLION dollars ($190,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Korea Exchange
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      (c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, cause
KBSC to open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the KBSC Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
7 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
Page  4
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MOE and Part B of the Project through KBSC, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational, technological, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
Page  5
services and other resources required for the Project; and
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project the Borrower shall, through MOE:
      (a) select Universities, Junior Technical Colleges and
Vocational High Schools in accordance with the criteria set forth in
paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, respectively;
and
      (b) relend, in dollars, out of the proceeds of the Loan, an
aggregate amount not to exceed $39,000,000, or such other aggregate
amount as shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and
the Bank, to private Universities and private Junior Technical
Colleges, each selected pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
and to private Open Universities, under subsidiary loan agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of such
institutions under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include the following principal
terms and conditions:
            (i)    each Subsidiary Loan shall be repayable over 15
                   years, including five years' grace; and
            (ii)   interest on each Subsidiary Loan shall be
                   payable at a variable rate per annum equal to
                   the rate being paid by the Borrower to the Bank
                   pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, or
                   such other rate as shall be agreed between the
                   Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project the Borrower shall, through MOE, make available on a grant
basis, out of the proceeds of the Loan, an aggregate amount not to
exceed $131,000,000 equivalent, or such other aggregate amount as
shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank,
to the Participating Institutions, other than the private Open
Universities, private Universities and private Junior Technical
Colleges referred to in paragraph (a) above, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
      Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Finance, make
available on a grant basis, out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
aggregate amount of $20,000,000 equivalent to KBSC.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
Page  6
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause KBSC to,
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall, or shall cause KBSC to:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
Page  7
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, or shall cause KBSC to:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any
of the Participating Institutions or for the suspensions of its
operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any
event specified in Section 5.01 of Section of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
Page  8
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   MOF
                   Kwachon, Korea          K-23243
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
            INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
            Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                         By /s/ Chung Gi Kim
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Equipment for                             100% of foreign
      education and research:                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
(a)   University Engineering    60,000,000      expenditures
      Departments                               (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 65%
(b)   University Natural                        of local expen-
      Science Departments       45,000,000      ditures for
                                                other items
(c)   Marine Science                            procured locally
      Departments               20,000,000
Page  9
(d)   Open Universities         15,000,000
(e)   Junior Technical
      Colleges                  10,000,000
(f)   Vocational High
      Schools                   20,000,000
(g)   Korea Basic Science
      Center                    20,000,000
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    190,000,000
                               ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b) expenditures in respect of Categories 1(a), 1(b), 1(e) and
1(f) of the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for a University
Engineering Department, a University Natural Science Department, a
Junior Technical College and a Vocational High School until such
Participating Institution shall have been selected pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
      (c) expenditures in respect of Categories 1(a), 1(b), 1(d) and
1(e) of the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for a private
University Engineering Department, a private University Natural
Science Department, a private Open University and a private Junior
Technical College until such Participating Institution shall have
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
and under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
improve the quality of education and research of the Participating
Institutions, through the implementation of the Borrower's science
and technical education Policies and Actions Programs, and the
provision of specialized equipment.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:
      Provision of education and research equipment and
complementary inputs to upgrade the laboratories and workshops of
Page  10
the Participating Institutions, other than the Korea Basic Science
Center.
PART B:
      Construction of new and expansion of existing laboratories
for the Korea Basic Science Center, and provision of research
equipment, and complementary inputs therefor.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
      Date Payment Due                     Payment of Principal
                                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
      beginning September 1, 1999
      through September 1, 2008                 9,500,000
      and on March 1, 2009                      9,500,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
Page  11
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
3.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in Korea may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C : Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for equipment for education and
research estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $23,000,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment for education and
research estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,400,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
Page  12
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D : Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a) With respect to each contract for equipment for education
and research the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement or paragraph
4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as the case may be.
      (b) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Policies and Actions Program, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain the Education Facilities Bureau
headed by a qualified officer and assigned with such funds, staffing
and resources as shall be required to enable it to adequately
undertake the overall responsibility for Project implementation.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordinating Committee
assigned with the responsibility of establishing adequate
coordination in the carrying out of the Project among the various
agencies and departments of the Borrower and the Participating
Institutions.
4.    The Borrower shall cause the Korea Basic Science Center (KBSC)
to maintain the Loan Project Implementation Unit headed by a
qualified officer and assigned with such funds, staffing and
resources as shall be required to enable it to adequately undertake
the obligations of KBSC in the carrying out of Part B of the
Project.
5.    The Borrower shall select Universities to carry out Part A of
the Project or parts thereof in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include the following:
      (a)   that the University shall have at least three
      Engineering Departments and three Natural Science Departments
      with at least three full-time professors in each Department,
      and with undergraduate programs in operation for at least two
      years as of March 1994;
      (b)   the undergraduate enrollment for the academic year 1992-
      1993 shall have been of at least 160 and 120 students in the
      Engineering Department and Natural Science Department,
      respectively, responsible for carrying out Part A of the
      Project or a part thereof; and
      (c)   have adopted a five-year undergraduate development plan,
      satisfactory to the Bank.
6.    The Borrower shall select Junior Technical Colleges to carry
Page  13
out Part A of the Project or parts thereof in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank which shall include the following:
      (a)   have at least four Technical Departments, with at least
      three full-time professors in each Department, and with
      courses in operation for at least two years as of March 1994;
      (b)   the enrollment for the academic year 1992-1993 shall
      have been of at least 300 students; and
      (c)   have adopted a five-year development plan, satisfactory
      to the Bank.
7.    The Borrower shall, through the Offices of Education of MOE,
select Vocational High Schools to carry out Part A of the Project or
parts thereof in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include the following:
      (a)   level of overall equipment provision in relation to
      standard requirements;
      (b)   equipment needs of newly established departments in
      existing vocational high schools; and
      (c)   equipment needs of newly established vocational high
      schools.
8.    The Borrower shall, through MOE and KBSC, prepare and furnish
to the Bank for its review and comments, semi-annual Project
progress reports, such Reports to be furnished on March 1 and
September 1 of each year, commencing on March 1, 1994.
9.    On March 1, 1997, or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in consultation with
the Bank, carry out a mid-term review of Project Implementation.
                           SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1(a)
through 1(f) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $11,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Page  14
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                       KBSC Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Category 1(g)
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the KBSC Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the KBSC Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the KBSC Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
KBSC Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the KBSC Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the KBSC Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the KBSC Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the KBSC Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the KBSC Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Page  16
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the KBSC Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the KBSC Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the KBSC Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the KBSC Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the KBSC Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the KBSC Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the KBSC Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the KBSC Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
