Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5914-lSI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Februarv 26, 1986
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 2uthorization.



CURENCY EQUInVENTS
Currency Unit                  Malawd Rvacha (MK)
USSI.00                         MK 1.80 (January 1986)
MK 1.00                         US$0.56 (January 1986)
100 tamhala                    MK 1.00
WEIGHTS, VOLUMES AND MEASURES
1 .3 (solid) wood         -        1.43 m3 (stacked) wood
1 .3 (stacked) wood       -       0.70 ,3 solid wood
1 *3 (solid) hard wood    -       0.70 ton of wood
I m3 (stacked) hard wood  -       0.49 ton of wood
I ton of charcoal         -       7 giga calories
I ton of hard wood        -        3 giga calories
I meter (i)               -       3.3 feet
I cubic meter (m3)        -       35.3 cubic feet
I hectare (ha)            -       2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)          -        0.62 niles
I square kilometer (km2)  -       0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
ACU      -   Area Control Unit
ADD      -   Agricultural Development Division
ARD      -   Agricultural Research Depar:ment
CDC      -   Conoawealth Development Corporation
CFO      -   Chief Forest Offlcer
co       -   Clerical O#ficer
DA       -   Development Are&
DCFO     -   Deputy Chief Forest Officer
DFO      -   Division Forest 'fficer
EVA      -   Extension Planning Area(s)
ESU      -   Energy Studies Unit
FAO/CP   -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Coperative Program
FD       -   Forestry Department
FEU      -   Forestry Extension Unit
FG       -   Forest Guards
FRIM     =   Forest Research Institute of Malawi
COM      -   Government of Kalowi
IDRC     -   International Development Research Center
INDEBANK -   Investment Development Bank of Malawi
MAI      -   Mean Annual Increment
HCF      -   Malawi CoLlege of Forestry
MDC      -   Malawi Development Corporation
H & E    -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MFNR     -   Min'stry of Forestry and Natural Resources
NH       -   Nurserymen
NRDP     -   National Rural Development Program
PM       -   PaLrolmen.
PO       -   Professional Officer
RCP      =   Revenue Collection Posts
RDP      -   Rural Development Project
RFO      -   Regional Forestry Officer
TA       -   Technical Assistant
STA      -   Senior Technical Assistant
STO      -   Senior Technical Officer
TO       -   Technical Officer
WED      -   Wood Energy Division
WEP      -   Wood Energy Project
WEPI     -   NRDP II Wood Energy Project
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  BACKGROUND  .**...............  ......a ............****    1
A.  Introduction ................................. o............. I
B.  Economic Setting ......O..*..... ..............................   1
C.  The Agricultural Sector ...........* ................... a..   2
D.  The Forestry Sub-Sector....................O...*..           ....... .   3
E.  Bank Involvement in the Sub-Sector ......................   5
F.  Review of NRDP II Wood Energy Project ...................    6
II.  THE PROJECT                                                                8
I.  TH.POJ.T....*........  ................................. 
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives....................j...    8
B.  Project A        r e             a ..ritO.........................    10
E.  General Project DeCost                                               10ptin........................19
D.  D     etailed Featurel  .............................            ,   11
E.  Project Cost ............................                            19
A.  Financing     an .anae. en.. .. ........   .* .......... ,  21
B.  EPvironmental Impact .  ..... ............................      ..  21
I     DI.  PROJECT  IMPIHNTATION ........e ............................   23
A.  Orvanization and Management ........................... ..  23
B.  Pr ourement Prepaatio.................................. a..  26
C.  Disbursement ARET..DPICS..............................  37
D.  Accounts, Audits and Reports ........................... .......... 28
E.  S     uperv ision and R eviews ...............................  29
F.  Status of Preparation ......................................... 29
IV.  PRODUCTION, MAJ KETS  AND  PRICES SK...................   31
A.  Wood Production and Markets ...................................... 31
B.  Prices ............ .......... ............... 0..........  32
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....................................  36
A.  General ............. ... 0...............................  36
B.  Project Budgetary Implications ........ ....................  36
C.  Economic Returns ................ ................... .....  37
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................  42
I This document has A rsticd ditbution and may be used by raipients only in the perfomanc
Lo°f their off   duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authbization.



ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
ANNEX I
Cost Tables
1 Government Plantations (6000 hectares)
2 Retail Nurseries
3   Sma1 Farmer Tree Planting Incentive
4 Revenue Collection System
5 Expansion of Forestry Department
6  Management Planning Unit
7 Monitc-ring and Evaluation Unit
8 Pilot Forestr7 Extension
9 Fuel Etficient Stove Production
10   Pilot Charcoal Production
1,   Research
12  Training
13   Summary Account by Project Component
ANNEX  II
Tables and Models
1 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2 Comparison of Costs of Establishing One Hectare of Trees
3 Stumpage Calculation for Government Plantation (3,000 ha at
Lilongwe).
4 One Hectare Model for Smallholder Woodlot
5 One Hectare Model for Small Farmers Woodlot: Costs and Benefits for
the Farmer
6 Annual Crop Budgets for One Hectare of Marginal Agric. Land
7 Net Returns to 1 Hectare, 21 Year Crop Rotation
8 Comparlson of Returns to Producing Fuelwood on Land that has no
Other Use, and Collecting Fuelvood
9 Estimated Costs of Fuelvood Sellers in Urban Market
10  Tobacco Production Costs and Revenue for Large-Scale Farming: Impact
of a Rise in Stumpage Fee
11  Tobacco Budget per ha by Variety (Small Farmers): Impact of a Rise
in Stumpage Fee on Production Costs
12  Financial Analysis for 6,000 ha of Government Plantations
13   Small Holder Woodlots: Total Yields and Costs (10,880 ha)
14   Economic Valuation of Fuelwood Based on Imported Kerosene
Alternative
15   Cost of One Ton of Pine Charcoal from Viphya
16   Cost of Obtaining Fuelvood Through Depletion of Indigenous Forest
17   Value of Fuelwood from Small Farmers Woodlots
18   Relationship Between Recurrent and Capital Expenditure
19   Project Related Government/FD Cash Flow



CHARTS AND MAP
I New Structure of the Forestry Department
2   Implementation Schedule
3   Map of Malawi Forestry Sites - IBRD No. 19290
PROJECT FILE
1   -Wood Production- Working Paper, August 1985, P. Ryan,
Consultant
2   -Revenue Collection  Working Paper, August 1985, S.
Greben, Consultant
3   -Charcoal Pilot Project Working Paper, August
1985, S. Keiley, Consultant
4   -Introduction of Energy Efficient Charcoal and Fuelwood
Stoves into Urban Areas of Malawi- Working Paper,
August 1985, K. Openshaw and X. Kinyanjui
5   -Forestry Extension- Working Paper, August 1985,
S. Greben, Consultant
6   -Forest Research- Working Paper, August 1985, P. Ryan,
Consultant
7    Project Preparation Report-, May 1985, FAO/CP -
Forestry Department
8   -Second Wood Energy Project- Preparation Report, Malawi
Government/FAO-CP, May 1985
9   -Second Wood Energy Project- Preparation Working
Papers, FAO/CP, May 1985
10   -Malawi Forestry Subsector Study (A review of selected
issues)-, World Bank Report No. 4927-MAI, September
17, 1984.



MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Malawi.
Executing Agency:      Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources.
Amount:                US$16.7 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The objective of the Project is to reduce
the gap between sustainable fuelwood supply and
demand by (i) developing policy instruments and
incentives to encourage tree planting on a national
basis, (ii) increasing fuelwood production through
tree planting by small farmers and through
establishing a limited number of Governmevn
plantations in ecologically fragile areas; and (iii)
reducing fuelwood consumption by introducing more
efficient charcoal kilns and household stoves. The
Project would include components to support
institutional development, wood production, wood
conservation, and research and training. Its most
significant features are: increases in fuelwood
prices, expanded forestry extension and collection
activities, provision of incentives for tree
planting, and a redefinition of the Government's role
in fuelwood production to emphasize the encouragement
of private tree planting.
Benefits                  Smallholder woodlots (17,000 ha) and plantations
and                 established by the Government (6,000 ha) would
Risks                produce abut 230,000 m3 of fuelwood annually, which
would reduce the current supply/demand deficit in
fuelwood and protect the interdependent soil and
water resources necessary for agricultural
production. The introduction of more efficient
charcoal production technologies and charcoal
efficient stoves would result in substantial savings
in annual fuelwood consumption.
The principal risk of the Project lies in the
implementation of a comprehensive and new policy
package. If any of the policy elements fails to be
implemented, then the Project may be unable to
achieve its objective of increased private production
of fuelwood. To lessen these risks the Project would



- ii -
provide for strengthening and improved organization
of the Forestry Department, for procedures to
encourage cooperation with traditional and other
authorities, for training cf --21d and central
staff, and for annual reviews of Project
implementation. In addition a full scale mid-term
review would be undertake:i after three years of
Project implementation to identify any required
corrections in the policy package.
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
US$ Nillion
Institutional Development
1.  Revenue Collection System        2.1          1.1          3.2
2.  Pilot Extension Scheme           0.7          0.6           1.3
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit                           0.2          0.2          0.4
4.  Planning Unit                    0.4          0.5           0.9
5. Strengthening of Forestry
Department                       0.2          0.5          0.7
Subtotal                         3.6          2.9          6.5
Wood Production
1.  Government Plantations           2.0          1.1          3.1
2.  Nurseries                        0.7          0.7           1.4
3.  Incentive Payments               0.9           -           0.9
Subtotal                        3.6          1.8          5.4
Wood Conservation
1.  Pilot Charcoal Production        0.1          0.3          0.4
2. Fuel Efficient Stove
Production                       fj.1         0.2          0.3
Subtotal                         0.2          0.5          0.7
Support Services
1.  Research                         0.4          1.0          1.4
2.  Training                         0.4          0.5          0.9
-  _
Subtotal                         0.8          1.5          2.3
Total Base Costs                     8.2          6.7          14.9
Physical Contingencies               0.3          0.1           0.4
Price Contingencies                  2.7          1.6           4.3
Total Costs                     11.2          8.4         19.6



- iii-
Financing Plan
IBRD                                 8.3          8.4         16.7
Government                           2.9           -           2.9
11.2         8.4         19.6 I/
Estimated Disbursement of IBRD Loan
IBRD FY             87      88      89     90      91     92    93
Annual              1.9    3.4     3.0    2.6    2.4    2.3   1.1
Cumulative          1.9    5.3     8.3   10.9   13.3   15.6  16.7
Economic Rate of Return:       10%
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report No. 5914-MAI  Dated:  February 26, 1986
_Mbp                         IBRD No. 19290
I/ Taxes are negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from
import duties and sales tax.



MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The concept and scope of the proposed Project were developed on
the basis of findings and recommendations of the Forestry Sub-Sector Study
(issued in September 17, 1984), lessons learned in the course of
implementing the on-going NRDP II Wood Energy Project (para. 1.24), and
in the course of dialogue between the Bank and the Government on forest
policy and wood energy issues. In July 1984, the Government of Malawi
(GMf) requested that the Bank consider financing a second phase project as
part of a long-term forestry-wood energy program. This program is aimed at
reducing the Imbalance between wood supply and demand and, hence, reversing
the trend towards the destruction of Malawi' s forest resources. The
implementation of thp first phase project, to be completed in December 31,
1986, has generally been successful (para 1.24). Initiated in July
1984, the project preparation work was carried out by the Forestry
Department (FD) with assistance from the Food and Agricultural
Organization/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). In addition, the Bank provided
substantial conceptual guidance during project preparation. A Bank
appraisal mission visited Malawi in July 19851/.
B. Economic Setting
1.02      Malawi, a land-locked country, has a total land area of
approximately 94,300 km2 of which 36,200 km2 are generally defined as
arable. MWlawi's economic performance has been better than that of most
countries in the region; real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5X per annum
between 1967 and 1979, declining to 0.4Z in 1980 and 0.82 in 1981, but
recovering to 3.0% in 1982 and 3.52 in 1983. The economy continues to
depend heavily on the export of tobacco, sugar and tea. Over the past
three crop seasons, however, Malawi has produced considerable surpluses of
maize, its staple food crop, some of which have been exported to
neighboring countries.
1.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy,
providing 40Z of the GDP (down from 50 percent in the early 1970s), 852
to 90Z of foreign exchange earnings, and employing about 852 of the labor
force. Smallholder agriculture accounts for nearly 802 of total
agricultural production. A wide range of crops is cultivated, of which the
most important are maize, groundnuts, flue-cured tobacco, cotton, beans,
cassava, rice, sorghum, and millet.
1/  The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. H. Wagner, B. Zegge; Ms. J.
Armitage (Bank), P. Ryan, and S. Greben (Consultants). Messrs. Schramm
(Bank), S. Keiley, K. Openshaw and M. Kinyanjui (Consultants) joined
the mission briefly to appraise the charcoal production and wood stove
components.



- 2 -
1.04      Since 1978/79, the country's fiscal position has deteriorated.
Government deficits, rarely exceeding 92 of GDP before that date, now
average over 15X of GDP. Increased public domestic borrowing has
accompanied the deficits and has tended to reduce private borrowing.
Inflationary pressures have mounted as a result of a combination of large
deficits, the high cost of imports due to rising transport costs, and the
depreciation of the Kwacha against major currencies.
1.05      An improvement in the performance of the economy would be heavily
dependent not only on the ability of the Government to develop alternative
economical routes but also on the capacity of the farming community to
intensify and diversify its agricultural production. In many areas, little
arable land remains uncultivated and, thus, productivity of both food and
cash crops would have to be the major source of increased production.
Improvements in crop productivity would depend on further development and
use of appropriate technology and other support services, e.g., credit and
extension. Flue-cured tobacco productivity is dependent on an adequate
supply of fuelwood.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.06      Structure.  Agricultural production derives from two sub-sectors:
smallholders farming on customary land and estates farming on leasehold
land (principally under private management). Of the country's total arable
land area of about 36,000 km2, nearly 701 is cultivated by smallholders.
The estate sub-sector has been the major earner of foreign exchange, with
the export of tobacco, sugar, tea, tung oil, coffee and macadamia nuts.
Processing for the bulk of the tobacco and tea crops is dependent on
fuelvood as a traditional source of energy.
1.07      Performance.  Recent statistics indicate that annual real growth
in smallholder and estate agriculture, measured in terms of agricultural
GDP, averaged about 4.3% and 2.9% respectively between 1980 and 1984. In
the smallholder subsector, maize production exhibited the most rapid
growth, stimulated by better producer prices relative to groundnuts,
cotton, and flue-and air-cured tobacco. Estate production of all the major
commodities increased considerably between 1972 and 1984: annual growth
rates for flue-cured tobacco, burley tobacco, tea and sugar were 14, 17, 6
and 18% respectively over the past decade. However, international price
fluctuations and high transport costs have had a depressing effect on the
recent performance of the estate sector which, in addition, has had some
managerial problems. Productivity in the smallholder subsector is well
below its potential. Better performance has been constrained by: (i) poor
price incentives until recently; (ii) limited availability of appropriate
technology for many smallholders; (iii) Government regulations preventing
smallholder participation in the production of selected high value
agricultural export crops; and (iv) untimely and limited availability of
fertilizer.
1.08      Agricultural research.  Malawi's agricultural sector will be
strengthened through the IDA/USAID-assisted National Agricultural Research
Project which aims to improve the focus and quality of research programs,
strengthen critical linkages between the research and extension programs,
and improve the efficiency of the ongoing activities in agroforestry
carried out by the Department of Agricultural Research (DAR).



1.09      Extension Services are provided to smallholder farmers by the
Government through the Ministry of Agriculture's Department of Agriculture
(DOA). The national agricultural extension system is decentralized. The
planning, administration and management of the extension program at the
field level are carried out by eight Agricultural Development Divisions
(ADDs), each headed by a Program Manager. The ADDs are subdivided into 30
Rural Development Projects (RDPs) and 208 Extension Planning Areas (EPAs).
The extension program's effectiveness has been constrained by inadequate
incentives for staff and career development, poor technical messages, and
insufficient recurrent financing. Most of these problems are being
addressed through a recently approved IDA project which supports
agricultural extension and planning in the country (Credit No. 5453-MAI).
1.10      Extension for the estate subsector is provided by the
agricultural departments of the commercial banks which have a cadre of
technical staff. The Government has been preparing an expanded extension
program to upgrade the performance of small and medium sized estates and
provide institutional credit to finance development investments which
probably would include financing of private tree planting companies for
establishing fuelwood resources on tobacco estates.
1.11      Agricultural Development Strategy.  The Government is attempting
to provide a growth climate for both smallholder and estate production in
order to support its overall strategy of maintaining self-sufficiency in
food staples with expansion of agricultural exports and improvement in
rural incomes. Since the end of the 1970s, the Government's National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) has provided a wide range of services to the
smallholder subsector. By 1984, 80X of the smallholder subsector was under
NRDP. NRDP has been designed to increase smallholder productivity through
the provision of agricultural inputs and farm services and to increase the
scope and efficiency of extension, marketing and credit services.
Cultivation of new land has been discouraged in favor of increasing the
productivity of areas already cultivated. Attention is given to soil
conservation, watershed management and afforestation. The growth of
village-run farm clubs throughout NRDP areas has facilitated the delivery
of extension and training to farmers and has enabled issuance and recovery
of farm credit. The importance of the role of women in agriculture in
Malawi is receiving increasing attention. The Women's Programmes (WP)
Section in the Department of Agriculture replaced the Rome Economics
Section in 1981 in response to the perceived need to emphasize the role of
women in agricultural production.
D. The Forestry Sub-Sector
1.12      Forest Resources.  The "miombo- woodlands are the country's most
extensive forest variety and the major source of fuelwood and fine timber
for panels and furniture.  Forest land covers an estimated area of 4.75
million hectares.  The 'miombo  forest has low productivity with a mean
annual increment (MAI) of only 1.2 m3/ha on average, due partly to
ecological conditions in the region and partly to human influence. In
large areas of Customary Land, productivity is further reduced (to an
estimated MAI of 0.8 m3/ha) by annual burning for pastures and cutting for
fuelwood.



- 4 -
1.13      Malawi 's forest area can be divided by type of management as
follows:
Area Covered        Z of Total
Management Type                   (Million ha)         Forest Area
Gazetted Forest Reserves                  0.98                  21
Forests on Customary Land                 2.70                  57
Natural Parks and Game Reserves           1.00                  21
Industrial Plantations                    0.07                   1
Total Forest Area                       4.75                 100
1.14      Gazetted Forest Reserves are protected by the Forestry Department
(FD) and wood cutting is licensed. The current revenue collection system
is umderstaffed and thus not very efficient. Forests on Customary Land are
a major source of fuelwood and poles for the rural population and, as such,
are subject to excessive depletion. In April 1985, control and management
were transferred from the Ministry of Local Government to the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources. FD is currently setting up a simple forest
protection structure to improve productivity and revenue collection on
behalf of the traditional authorities which are retaining jurisdiction of
the forests in Customary Land. Forests in National Parks and Game Reserves
are protected by the FD and only limited wood harvesting is licensed.
Industrial Plantations, established and managed by the FD, are mostly
located in the northern region of the country (Viphya plantations).
The Forestry Department
1.15      The Forestry Department is part of the ministry for Forestry and
Natural Resources and manages public forest resources. it is currently
being reorganized to include three main divisions: (a) the Forest
Development Division responsible for establishing timber plantations,
protecting forest resources, and providing fire protection services; (b)
the Forestry Extension Division, responsible for extension services and
implementation of wood energy projects; and (c) the Forestry Support
Services Division, responsible for research, training, surveys and
planning. The above divisions, with the exception of the Viphya
Plantations Division, operate through the Regional Forestry Offices (one
for each of the three regions). Under the three Regional Forestry Offices
are 24 District Foresters (one for each of the 24 districts) who are
responsible for supervising forestry activities other than plantations and
forest extension.
Forest Legislation and Policy
1.16      Forestry management is governed by the Forest Act of 1964 and the
Forest Rules issued under the Act. The Forest Act covers four major areas:
(a) the establishment of Forest Reserves, and the use of forest products
from the Reserves; (b) responsibilities for managing and controlling
forests and trading forest produce on Public and Customary Land; (c)



- 5 -
village forest areas to be designated on Customary Land by a village
headman, with the approval of the Minister; and (d) police powers granted
to forest officers and other officers concerning the control of forest
produce.
1.17      The Land Act is the paramount legislation governing the use of
land.  It can implement the transfer of land titles to the government and
can enable the Department of Forestry to manage land for forestry purposes
if that land is declared to be a Forest Reserve. However, for the
management of the forests on Customary Land, ownership is retained by
traditional authorities.
1.18      Forestry Development Strategy.  After Independence, it was the
Government's forest policy to concentrate on establishing and operating
mechanical wood processing industries and planning an export-oriented
large-scale pulp and paper mill. For this purpose, with substantial
assistance from the Overseas Development Agency (ODA), ;he Forestry
Department established 75,000 ha of plantations (81% conifers) of which a
54,000 ha block in the Viphya mountains was planned to provide raw material
to a pulp and paper industry. Timber plantations were also established in
the Dedza area and the Zomba mountains. Until 1984, the Forest Industries
Division operated four Government-owned sawmills which produced about 48%
of the total sawn timber output of the country. Research and training were
focussed only on improving industrial wood production and wood processing.
1.19      However, increased depletion of forest areas around cities and
villages has led the Government to realize that an uninhibited and
continued depletion of the indigenous forest resources would have major
repercussions for the future wood supply and environmental balance of the
country. Thus, the Government has made a fundamental change in its forest
policy, focussing principally on the following issues: (a) reducing the
gap between fuelwood production and demand by initiating nationwide tree
planting prograLs serving the population's need for energy and slowing down
the depletion of the indigenous forest; (b) developing appropriate policy
instruments for stimulating private fuelwood production through price and
investment incentives, thereby facilitating a gradual reduction of the
Forestry Department's current role as a major though relatively inefficient
zad high cost producer of wood; (c) concentrating the Government's role on
the management of environmentally fragile areas for soil conservation and
water s-upply and the protection and control of forests in Customary Land;
(d) transferring wood processing industries to the private sector to
improve the efficiency of these industries (implemented in 1984).
E. Bank Involvement in the Subsector
1.20      The first Bank group assistance to the Forestry Subsector in
Malawi was Credit 992-MAI (US$13.8 million) under the NRDP II Wood Energy
Project in 1980. The project has substantially achieved its principal
objectives (para. 1.25). As a part of SAL II, the Bank also financed a
Technical Assistance project (Cr. 1428-MAI, US$1.4 million) intended to
improve the efficiency of tobacco curing technology and thereby reduce
fuelwood consumption. In 1984, the Bank financed the Forest Industries
Sector through the Wood Industries Restructuring Project (Loan 2486-MHA



-6 -
US$6.4 million) for the rehabilitation of the wood processing industry and
the conversion of the Forest Industries Department into a Wood Industries
Corporation. In addition, IFC is currently considering a loan of US$1.8
million and equity in the recently created company, 'Viphya Plywoods and
Allied Industries Ltd.", which would utilize a small part of the Viphya
Pine Plantations for plywood and sawnwood production.
1.21      Because of budgetary constraints and the high costs of government
plantations, the Government's role in the implementation of subsector
programs needs has been redefined (para. 1.20). The principal Project
objective is to move towards a balance of supply and demand for fuelvood
while at the same time shifting responsibility for plantation
establishment, maintenance, and management gradually from Government to the
private sector. Stumpage rate increases, establishmisnt of an improved
forest extension and revenue collection system, and temporary incentives
for the planting of fuelwood are the principal policy instruments to be
implemented under the proposed Project.
F. Review of NRDP II Wood Energy Project
1.22      The NRDP II Wood Energy Project (Cr. 992-MAI) was approved in
January 1980 and was scheduled for completion on December 31, 1985.
However, the closing date of the project was extended by one year to
facilitate the preparation and start-up of the Wood Energy Proje.t Phase
-T. Project implementation was reviewed during the appraisal of the
proposed Project. The NRDP II Wood Energy Project provided for (a) the
establishment of a national network of 88 nurseries with a planned
production of about 9 million seedlings a year for sale to farmers to
encourage them to grow their own fuelwood and poles; (b) the establishment
of a total of 12,900 ha of Government fuelwood and pole plantations in five
wood-deficit areas; and (c) the strengthening of the Wood Energy Division,
including the setting up of the Energy Studies Unit in the Forestry
Department. The implementation of this project had a very slow start
because of staffing and managerial problems and farmers' re_actance to
purchase seedlings. While project management improved later to a
satisfactory level, the farmer tree planting program reached only 60% of
its annual targets.  This can be attributed :- the low stumpage rate of
fuelwood and the easy access to free wood in the virtually unprotected and
uncontrolled indigenous forest in the Customary Lands which reduced the
incentive for farmers to grow their own wood supply. It also became
obvious during the implementation that the low nominal seedling price, if
not accompanied by other monetary incentives as proposed under the Pro-lect
(para. 2.26), does not provide enough incentive for farmers to produce
wood. In 1985, seedling sales exceeded 5 million per year, which is an
average of 60,000 seedlings per nursery. During implementation of the
project, production costs were reduced from 9 to 5 tambala per seedling.
On its own plantations, the Government eventually planted 13,300 ha,
exceeding slightly the appraisal targets.
1.23      The institutional component provided financial and technical
assistance for the development of the Wood Energy Division and the Energy
Studies Unit. Despite some initial problems, the Project did successfully
establish the necessary institutional fra"wework and technical capability to



- 7 -
operate a project of this size. It also mobilized public and political
support for tree planting programs and was instrumental in developing the
much broader scope of the proposed Project. However, certain weaknesses of
the project did emerge during implementation. First, the project scope was
not broad enough. It did not deal with policy issues such as restricting
access to free wood and the provision of adequate incentives to stimulate
private enterprise which would have reduced wood production cost and
produced a more substantial impact on the fuelwood situation of the
country. Furthermore, although an increase of the fuelwood stumpage rate
was suggested under the project, this was not implemented by the
Government, largely because the requirement to increase the price was not
specific in terms of levels and time table. The stumpage rate actually
declined in real terms during the project implementation period. The
lessons learned under the project are incorporated in the design of the
proposed Project.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.01      There is currently a substantial gap between the demand for
fuelvood and its sustainable supply. Although about 39Z of the country is
covered by forests, sustainable wood production can presently cover only
53% of the existing consumption because: (i) the indigenous forests have
low natural productivity which is further reduced by overexploitation on
Customary Lands; and (ii) an estimated 30% of the forest areas are
inaccessible because of lack of infrastructure or distance from consw rs.
On the basis of the existing survey by the Department of Forestry, current
and projected sources of wood production are summarized below:
Estimated Annual Wood Production
Economically
MAI   Potential  Accessible    Projected
(m3/ha)   1984         1984         1994
-----Million m3-
Forest Reserves            1.2      1.2          0.8          0.9
National Parks and Game
Reserves                  1.0      1.1          0.8          0.8
Estates (Natural Forest)  1.2       0.5          0.5          0.5
Cultivated Areas           0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1
Cultivable Land under
Forest                    0.9      2.0          1.3          1.3
Non-Cultivable Land
(70Z under Forest)        0.8      1.0          0.8          0.8
Fuelwood Tree Planting   14.0       0.3          0.3          0.6
Total Fuelwood                    6.2          4.6          5.0
Production                                                -
2.02      Fuelwood CDnsumption.  Total consumption of fuelwood is currently
estimated at 8.6 m3 million; this is distributed as follows:
Estimated Fuelvood Consumption
(Million m3)
Actual       Projected
Market Segment                    Consumption   Consuption
(1984)        (1994)
Urban Households                       1.0           0.9
Rural Households                      5.1            7.5
Estates (Tobacco and Tea)              2.0           1.6
Rural Industry                        0.4            0.5
Urban Services and Industry            0.1           0.1
8.6          10.6



2.03      At present, majoi- consumers of fuelwood are rural and urban
households (accounting for 71% of total consumption) and tobacco and tea
estates (23%). While urban consumption would drop slightly because of the
application of more fuel efficient charcoal kiln and household stoves,
rural consumption would incrtease by 3% per annum. Although domestic
consumption of fuelwood by rural households remains free, the projected
increase in stumpage rate (para. 4.05) would represent a higher opportunity
cost of wood (in terms of possible sale) which should induce some reduction
of rural consumption. The lack of data on price elasticities of demand
precludes any attempt at quantification; however, it is likely that the
projected rural consumption would be an overestimate. Consumption in the
estate sector is also likely to decline as a result of improved efficiency
in tobacco curing technology.
2.04      The present supply/demand situation reveals that in 1984 there
was an apparent general deficit of 4 m3 million which is projected to rise
to 5.6 m3 million in the next ten years. Although that may be an
overestimate, there is no question that there is a large gap. This, in
turn, is expected to trigger increases in the price of wood, mainly as a
result of increasing transport costs (caused by long distances between
supplier and consumer). Despite the apparent deficits in fuelwood supply,
extreme hardship has not yet occurred, because the deficits are actually
being met by forest depletion. This has very serious long run implications
for energy supply and the environmert..
2.05      The depletion of the forest resources is caused by both the lack
of restrictions in exploiting indigenous forests on Customary Land and the
low stumpage rate charged for fuelwood. The woodlands on Customary Land
are considered common property and therefore there is no restricted
access. This discourages production or conservation of wood by
individuals. At present, fuelwood obtained from forest resources on
Customary Land is free for domestic use. The average official stumpage
rate for commercial fuelwood was only MK 1.80 (US$1.03) per m3 of stacked
wood until March 1986 when it was increased to MK2.70 compared with an
estimated average long-term real cost of MK1O.2/m3 (US$5.9/m3). Thus, the
administered low stumpage rate does not provide individuals with incentives
to produce their own wood supply. It also implies that the Government, as
the major producer of wood, cannot recover its investment costs. In
addition, the existing stumpage rate encourages excessive consumption or
fuelwood and leads to low public revenues which prevents Government from
initiating and financing effective measures to control forest depletion.
2.06      It is therefore the objective of the Project to close the gap
between sustainable fuelwood supply and demand by implementing a package of
measures focussing on three elements: (i) increasing wood production
through tree planting by individual small farmers and the Government; (ii)
reducing fuelwood consumption by introducing more efficient charcoal kilns
and stoves for urban households; and (iii) implementing policy instruments
to encourage tree planting on a broader national basis by increasing the
stumpage rates, strengthening revenue collection facilities, and applying
temporary incentives for fuelwood tree planting.



- 10 -
B. Project Area
2.07      Project activities related to urban fuelvood supply would be
concentrated in priority areas around the cities of Blantyre and Lilongwe.
Both of these areas have a high population density, an acute fuelvood
shortage, and considerable depletion of the surrounding indigenous forests
on Customary Land. The a:tivities directed towards improved fuelwood
supply for the rural people are focussed on fuelvood deficit areas, mainly
in the Central and Southern Regions. The pilot extension activities would
be set up in three prior'ty districts of the country.
2.08      Tree planting in these areas is usually carried out on marginal
land, often too steep or rocky for agricultural use, but generally adequate
for growing fuelwood. The rainfall varies from 650 am to over 2,000 mm,
but most parts of the Project area would be in the range of 900-1200 mm
which is generally adequate for tree planting. However, an extended dry
season can adversely affect the yields on marginal sites. The hottest
months are October/November and the coldest June/July. The average monthly
temperatures range from 150C in July to 270C in November. The major
climatic environmental limitations would be relatively short growing
seasons, or severe dry seasons which could result in a soil moisture
deficit that has to be restored before the trees can be planted. In
addition, unreliable rainfall and occasional seve-re droughts could have
detrimental effects on tree yields.
C. General Project Description
2.09      This Project, like the preceding first phase, is part of a
long-term Forestry-Wood Energy Development program. The Project would
consist of the following four major components, which would be implemented
over a period of six years:
i) Institutional Development, focussed on strengthening the
FD's revenue earning capacity, would involve the
establishment of 27 area control units (ACU) and 17
revenue collection posts (RCP), nine pilot extension
schemes, a monitoring and evaluation unit, a planning
unit, and the strengthening of the existing units.
(ii) Wood Production would involve (a) the establishment of 60
additional nurseries, a temporary investment bonus for
about 32 million trees planted by the smallholder farmers,
and the production of 5 million seedlings by farmers for
which the FD would distribute a seedling production
package free of charge; (b) 6,000 hectares of Government
plantations; and (c) 110 ha of demonstration woodlots. In
addition, the Project would provide for a feasibility
study to facilitate the establishment of a private tree
planting service company to provide wood production
services primarily to tobacco estates.
(iii) Wood Conservation would consist of (a) pilot charcoal
production for introducing wood efficient kilns which



- 11 -
would lead to the development of more efficient private
charcoal production; and (b) initiating the production and
marketing of about 100,000 fuel efficient stoves;
(iv)  Support Services would consist of research and training
programs.
2.10      The most significant features of the Project are policy changes
relating to wood pricing, forestry control and revenue collection, the
provision of incentives for private tree planting, and redefinition of the
Government's role in fuelwood production.
D. Detailed Features
Institutional Development
2.11      The FD's administrative capability is currently under stress as a
result of three major factors: First, the transfer of authority for
collecting revenues and managing indigenous forests on Customary Land has
increased the FD's responsibility from 980,000 ha to 3.7 million ha of
forest land. Secondly, the implementation of the Wood Energy Project Phase
II will put additional stress on the administration since the Project is
relatively broad in scope and more challenging than the previous one.
Lastly, no significant increase in Government budget allocations is
expected to enable the FD to meet the above challenges. Therefore, the
generation of increased funds from forestry resources would be critical for
the future development of the forestry sector. The Project would provide
for the establishment of the necessary administrative infrastructure for a
substantial increase ia revenue collection, forest management, extension,
training and research.
2.12      Forest Protection and Revenue Collection.  The Project would
provide for the setting up of ACUs and RCPs. Twenty seven ACUs would be
established in twelve priority districts experiencing severe forest
depletion. Each ACU would be manned by 10 to 15 forest management teams.
The responsibility and functions of each team would consist of: determining
and monitoring cutting rates, taking preventive measures against any form
of damage to the forests, collaborating with the extension unit to educate
wood users on sustainable utilization of these forests, and licensing and
charging a stumpage fee to commercial users. Wood collected in headloads
for subsistence would continue to be free of charge. Each forest
management team would consist of one Forest Guard and one or two Patrolmen
who would be responsible for an average area of 3,000 ha. The 10 to 15
teams in one ACU would be supervised by a specially trained Forestry
Assistant (TA). Total incremental staff, which partly would be transferred
from the Ministry of Local Government, would comprise 27 TAs, 54 forest
guards and 324 patrolmen (skilled laborers). The ACUs would be
incorporated into the regional forestry administration and would report to
the District Forest Officer. The District Forest Officer would be equipped
with a four-wheel drive pick-up, the TAs with motorcycles and-the forest
guards and patrolmen with push bicycles. In addition, the Project would
also provide for low cost housing for all incremental field staff, as well
as the necessary storage facilities, uniforms, equipment and tools.



- 12 -
2.13         Revenue Collection Posts, 17 in all, would be set up at major
transport roads into Blantyre, Lilongwe and other selected urban centers.
These posts would be complementary to the ACUs and would charge royalties
on all commercial wood which by-passed the ACU system. Since the staff in
the ACUs would focus more on technical assistance for utilizing the
indigenous forests on a sustainable basis than on collecting revenues, it
is expected that most of the royalties would be charged at the RCPs. An
RCP, manned by six persons on a 24 hour-a-day schedule, would be supervised
by a District Forest Officer responsible for the area in which the RCP is
located. The Project would provide for incremental staff comprising 51
forest guards and 51 patrolmen as well as for housing, cabins, fenced
compounds for detained produce, equipment and uniforms.
2.14      Successful implementation of the proposed forest protection and
revenue collection system would depend on the preparation of the forest
officers for their task and the cooperation received from the traditional
and political authorities. Therefore, all TAs and the forest guards would
go through a pre-assignment training to prepare for their dual task of
preserving the forest resources and obtaining the cooperation of the people
for using the resource on a sustainable basis; the FD would seek the
cooperation of party leaders, chiefs and village headmen for establishing
the ACUs and RCPs and providing the forest officers with the necessary
local support to carry out their duties. 25X of the gross revenue
collected on forest products from Customary Land would be given to
traditional authorities for investments in local development, including an
improved energy supply.
2.15      Consultants (four person-months) would be hired to assist the
Government in developing administrative procedures for revenue collection
and investment bonus payments (para. 2.25), and the related accounting and
training programs. The preparation of the regulations and administrative
procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition for loan
effectiveness.
2.16      Forest Extension.  The purpose of the pilot scheme is to
determine whether a workable arrangement with the Agricultural Extension
Service can eventually be developed. The Project would provide, on a pilot
basis, for six extension units consisting on average of one Professional
Officer (PO), three Technical Officers (TO), and six Technical Assistants
(TA), with three more units being set up after a trial period of three
years. The extension units would be organized on a district level and
concentrated in areas with acute fuelwood shortage and where planting by
farmers needs to be intensified. The extension staff would focus on small
and medium size farmers and provide them with seed or seedlings, register
them for the tree planting bonus and give them simple technical assistance
in tree planting, harvesting and wood usage. The extensionists would also
cooperate with the staff of the ACUs in setting up a sustained supply of
fuelwood from the natural forests.
2.17      In addition, the Project would provide for a small unit at the FD
headquarters to develop training materials for farmers and extension staff
and would strengthen the existing publicity unit with additional staff.
The existing Forestry Extension Unit would be upgraded to the new Forestry



- 13 -
Advisory Branch and would include a total of 87 positions of which 60 would
be newly created. Of the total, 60 would be working in the field with
farmers and target population. These extensionists could reach about
40,000 farmers at a ratio of 1:600. The Project would also provide for
vehicles, motorcycles, extension material and audiovisual equipment. The
head of the Forestry Advisory Branch would be appointed not later than
September 1, 1986. His qualifications, experience and terms of reference
should be acceptable to the Bank.
2.18      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  The Project would provide for
setting up a specific M & E unit to assist management in assessing progress
of implementation as well as in monitoring responses of the target
population. The Project has a variety of new features which would require
constant monitoring during implementation. The M & E Unit would enable
corrective measures to be taken at early stages and decisions to be made
about possible redesign of these pilot efforts before completion. The
M & E unit would be responsible for progress reporting (para. 3.21),
periodic reviews (including those with the Bank), and preparation of a
Project Completion Report.
2.19      The Project would meet the cost of 11 incremental staff for the
unit and would provide for office equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, and
staff housing. In addition, a lump sum of MK100,000 would be provided for
contracting local firms or consultants for surveys. The head of the K & E
Unit should be appointed by September 1, 1986. His qualifications,
experience and terms of reference should be acceptable to the Bank.
2.20      Planning Unit.  Currently the FD has no planning capacity.  In
view of the FD's increased responsibility under the proposed Project, the
establishment of a planning capability for formulating objectives, setting
priorities, and preparing work plans and budget is essential. In compiling
basic resource data, the unit would establish a forest inventory and land
surveying capability to determine land use of forest areas, including the
potential for wood production, encroachment, and deforestation rate. The
Project would provide for the employment of two POs, one Senior Technical
Officer (STO), one TO, three Senior Technical Assistants (STAs) and three
TAs, as well as for vehicles, photo interpretation and inventory equipment,
six person-months of consultancy services to assist in building up the
forest inventory capacity as well as three three-month fellowships overseas
for photo-interpretation and remote sensing. The head of the Planning Unit
should be appointed by September 1, 1986. His qualifications, experience
and terms of reference should be acceptable to the Bank.
Wood Production
2.21      It is the long-term goal of the FD that the private sector play
an increasingly prominent role in wood production. The Government is
currently the highest cost producer of wood and does not have the
flexibility or the funds to react to the broadly scattered demands of the
country. Also, acquisition of land for the establishment of Government
plantations is often cumbersome, time-consuming and costly since people
often have to be resettled. The Project would therefore aim at encouraging
private tree planting directly by providing temporary investment
incentives, seedlings and advisory service and indirectly by increasing
stumpage fees to cost recovery level plus a margin for the producer.



- 14 -
Access to free wood in indigenous forests would be restricted. The
Government has also agreed to refocus its attention toward areas which are
environmentally fragile and in need of protection. The Project would
provide for the establishment of smallholder woodlots and Government
plantations. (Technical aspects of establishing plantations are discussed
in Working Paper No. 1 in the Project File).
2.22      Farmers' Wood Production.  The Project would provide for the
establishment of 60 new temporary retail nurseries supplementing the
existing network of 88 permanent plus 10 temporary nurseries established
under the first phase. Although many existing nurseries have not yet
reached their full capacity, it is expected that the investment bonus would
increase the demand for seedlings. Also, the new nurseries would be
established in deficit areas not covered by WEPI. The Project would also
fund the upgrading of 10 temporary nurseries already established. All new
nurseries would initially be established on a temporary basis until the
farmers' response would justify their respective upgrading to permanent
nurseries. Each nursery would require about 0.4 ha of land for
establishing a production capacity of 200,000 seedlings per annum, as well
as an adequate water supply and easy accessibility to market places or day
training centers. Establishment of temporary nurseries requires only low
cost traditional bush-material houses for the nurserymen (NM), a shed for
tools and materials, and fencing. Thereafter, upgrading would entail
additional investments in more permanent houses for nurserymen, improved
storage facilities, and water tanks. Provision was made for upgrading 20
nurseries.
2.23      The Project would also provide for tractor trailers, pick-ups and
trucks for soil collection and seedling distribution.  Each nursery's
seedling production would start with 50,000 per year and would then be
increased in response to demand. The nominal selling price would initially
continue to be one tambala per seedling (production costs are currently
estimated at five tambala). Although at this price anticipated seedling
demand under the first project did not fully materialize, with the proposed
additional incentive for growing trees, the farmers are likely to respond
favorably to this offer. The price of the seedlings would be subject to
review. The seedling production in nurseries and the distribution program
would be complemented by the distribution of seedling production packages
to some smallholder farmers. These packages would consist of sufficient
seed and poly tubes to produce 650 seedlings, enough for planting 0.25 ha.
The package, to be distributed free of charge, would have an instruction
leaflet simple enough to be understood by most farmers. It is anticipated
that each of the existing and proposed nurseries would distribute 10
packages per year, possibly increasing to 15 packages a year by the end of
the Project, for a total estimate of 5-6 million seedlings (enough for
2,500 ha) during the Project period.
2.24      Demonstration Woodlots.  In order to demonstrate the potential
growth of various species and establishment techniques, the Project would
support the development of an additional 110 ha in demonstration woodlots
which would be located near retail nurseries or on farmers' surplus land.
Successful and interested farmers would be enlisted as "contact farmers-
for this purpose. The demonstration woodlots, serving also as applied



- 15 -
research trials, would be established, maintained, and evaluated in close
cooperation with FRIM. Villagers' preferences, especially their need for
multi-purpose trees, such as fodder, fruit, or nitrogen fixing trees, would
be a major focus. Because of the close proximity of the demonstration
woodlots to the retail nurseries, only additional short-term labor would be
required to set them up. In order to keep the running costs of the
administration low, the minimum to be subsidized would be 300 and the
maximum 5000 trees.
2.25      Tree Planting Bonus.  In order to encourage tree planting for
fuelwood and maintenance of fuelwood trees under conditions of distorted
stumpage rates, incentives would be provided to farmers which would consist
of a bonus of five tambala per tree to be provided to farmers for each tree
surviving two years after planting or of some other agreed upon payment in
cash or in kind (para. 3.06). Such payments would make tree planting
financially attractive relative to both crops (particularly on marginal
agricultural land) and firewood collection. It is anticipated that about
32 million trees would be paid for under the Project. This assumes that at
least 70Z of the trees planted would survive. The payment would be
implemented by the forestry personnel of the Extension units, the District
Forest offices and the ACUs.  The name of the planter and the location of
the proposed woodlot would be recorded at the nursery when seedlings or
seedling production packages were acquired by farmers. Other farmers
raising their own seedlings could also be included in the program when they
register their woodlots at the District Forest Offices at the time of
establishment. The responsibility would then rest with the planter to
contact either the nurseries, the local extension officer, or the district
forester in order to assess his plantings, using the original nursery entry
or registration as reference. Payment would then be made by the extension
service under the direct supervision of the District Forest Officer.
Accounting procedures on the district level would be strengthened for this
purpose. The establishment of woodlots by individual farmers, and adequacy
of the bonus payment for surviving trees would then be reviewed and checked
by the M & E Unit during its annual surveys.
2.26      Establishment of a Tree Planting Service Company.  Tobacco
estates owners are obliged by law to build up their own fuelwood supply.
Although they are basically willing to do so, there are several reasons for
non-compliance with the law. First, no long-term credit facilities have
been made available to finance plantation establishment. Second, to cut
and haul wood from indigenous forests (even over long distances) is cheaper
at existing stumpage prices than to grow wood. Third, estates face labor
constraints as the peak period for labor demand coincides for tobacco and
fuelwood cultivation.
2.27      These obstacles, however, would be addressed if: (i) under the
Bank-supported Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, medium and long
term credit would be available to the estate sub-sector which would assist
agricultural estates in establishing their own fuelwood resources; (ii)
Government policy for increasing the stumpage fee for fuelwood would be
implemented; and (iii) access to free wood would be limited. They would
also be assisted by a tree planting company which would establish
plantations on estates which have labor and managerial constraints. The



- 16 -
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) has already indicated that it is
interested in financing and in taking equity shares in such a company.
Potential local shareholders would be KFCTA (which has the planting
technology), the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC), and the Tobacco
Growers Association. KFCTA and MDC have already expressed interest in
participating in such an enterprise. Funds are provided under Credit 992
of the NRDP II Project for carrying out a marketing survey. In addition, a
feasibility study for creating a private company would be funded under the
proposed Project. The study would also review the issue of enforcing the
clause in long-term lease contracts that stipulates the obligation for
tobacco growers to provide for their fuelwood self-sufficienc;y.
2.28      Government Plantations.  Government plantations would generally
be limited to ecologically fragile areas ard to areas already gazetted as
forest reserves for the protection of unique botanical and ecological
units. Although this is financially a less attractive option for fuelwood
production, the ecological and conservation benefits, though intangible,
are likely to outweigh the value of fuelwood in the long-term. The Project
would provide for the establishment of two 3,000 hectare plantation blocks
for fuelwood production in the vicinity of Lilongwe and the foothills of
the Mulanje plateau (about 90 km from Blantyre) including the purchase of
machinery, vehicles, and material, and construction of staff housing,
forest roads, and other civil works (e.g., nursery establishment). It
would also provide for two additional TOs, two TAs, and technical and
clerical support staff for maintenance of the existing plantations.
Wood Conservation
2.29      The conservation program under the Project has two pilot
components: the development of a fuel-efficient charcoal production process
and the introduction of fuel-efficient stoves. The savings resulting from
the use of more efficient technology and production methods are
substantial. By increasing kiln efficiency from 10% to 20%, the production
of every 1,000 tons of charcoal would save 10,000 m3 (stacked) wood per
year. This is the equivalent of the clear felling of 175 ha of natural
forest. It is expected that the activities initiated under the Project
will lead to the commercial production of about 20,000 tons of charcoal
annually within 4-5 years of its inception. (For further details see
working paper No. 3). Similarly, by introducing more fuel-efficient
stoves, charcoal and wood consumption could be reduced by 25% to 40%. The
Project would provide technical assistance and seed money for local
artisans to produce more efficient stoves. Assuming that 100,000 stoves
are sold to households in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba over the Project
life, savings of around 100,000 m3 (stacked) annually of wood could be
achieved. This is the equivalent of clear felling 2,000 ha of natural
forest.
2.30      Charcoal Production.  The overall objective of this project
component is to conserve wood by introducing more efficient technology and
production methods and to determine whether it is financially attractive to
organize an efficient charcoal production system on a private basis. The
charcoal component would be implemented in two phases: The first phase
would be the establishment of a pilot charcoal production process over a



- 17 -
period of 12 months. The pilot production phase is intended to introduce
and demonstrate the use of efficient kilns and wood handling methods in
indigenous forests and plantations. The Project would provide for 12
portable kilns, (four of which would be used in unexploited remote forest
areas, four in heavily depleted areas and four in plantations), management
of the pilot scheme, training of personnel, tools, equipment, and
vehicles. Charcoal produced during the pilot period would be marketed
through the existing dealer network. In the second phase of about six
months, the Project would provide for the evaluation of the pilot phase and
preparation of the commercial production which would probably be organized
along the lines of the successful private charcoal enterprises in Sri Lanka
(Charlanka) and Brazil (Acesitas). (Details are in Working Paper No. 3).
2.31      For the pilot phase of 18 months, the Project would provide for
one PO as Project Manager, one internationally recruited charcoal
specialist for 18 person-months, one internationally recruited consultant
for three months to assist in evaluating the pilot production and preparing
the recommendations of the full-scale production, three TAs, and one
locally contracted consultant. Also, the Project would provide for the
purchase of kilns, tools, two pickups, and one tractor and trailer. The
consultants would be hired not later than September 1, 1986. Terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank would be provided by May 1986.
2.32      Introduction of Fuel-Efficient Stoves.  The Project would help to
transfer wood conservation technology to Malawi and introduce the
commercial production of stoves. It would provide technical assistance in
establishing pilot production units for charcoal stoves in Blantyre and
fuelwood stoves in Blantyre and Lilongwe, setting up a small extension
capability at the FD, as well as providing training for artisans, potters
and other stove entrepreneurs to enable them to manufacture and market tne
improved stoves.   Production and distribution of the improved stoves would
be carried out by the private sector. The FD would provide the technical
packages necessary to initiate the production of about 100,000 stoves over
the project period. The Project would also meet the cost of employing one
TO, two TAs, internationally recruited consultants for training, expansion
of a stove testing laboratory, equipment, one vehicle, staff housing, and
stove production materials. In addition, funds of MK72,000 would be made
available through the Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
(SEDOM) for purchasing basic material and tools to be provided to local
artisans. The producer should provide evidence that he was able to run a
small business in the past and that he has adequate bookkeeping skills.
Women should be eligible to participate.
2.33      The stove technology to be introduced under this project
component is well established elsewhere in Eastern Africa, where more than
200,000 stoves of this type have been produced and marketed in the last few
years. These are being produced by individual artisans and/or small
manufacturing plants. The production techniques that are required to
produce them are quite similar to those already employed in Malawi in the
production of traditional stoves (mbaulas). Hence the task of retraining
is greatly simplified and there is a ready pool of skilled artisans
available in the country. Some new but simple technology of ceramic stove
liner production has to be introduced, but there exist ceramic
manufacturing plants in Malawi that could (and are willing to) produce
these liners.



- 18 -
2.34      There will be no problems in converting households to the use of
the new stoves, because they have essentially the same shape, function and
operating characteristics as the traditional ones.
2.35      The estimated net benefits from the program to both households
and the economy as a whole will be substantial. To individual households
the estimated savings are as follows:
Charcoal Stoves 1/
Traditional      Improved
Market Price of Stoves, Kwacha                3                10
Average Stove Efficiency, Z                  20                27
Annual Consumption of Charcoal/Stove, Kg  1100               815
Annual Cost of Charcoal, Kwacha             165               122
Annual Net Savings/stove Kwacha               0                36
1/  Savings for fuelwood stoves are roughly similar.
In addition, the new stoves have a life expectancy about three times longer
(1-1/2 years) than the traditional ones. They can be repaired thereafter,
which the traditional ones cannot. In a national context, the estimated
cumulative savings of the combined fuelvood and charcoal stove components
over the Project's four year time span would be as follows:
Savings of Natural Woodlands, (ha)                       7,200
Savings in Charcoal Requirements (MK 000)                6,600
These savings would, of course, continue indefinitely after completion of
the Project, because by then the new technologies would be firmly
established. The detailed feasibility study is available from the Project
File. (Working Paper No. 4).
Support Services
2.36      Research.  The Wood Energy Research Program would be carried out
by the Forestry Research Institute of Malawi (FRIM). FilM personnel would
be responsible for the design and overall implementation of the research
programs as well as for the analysis of resulting data. For those
experiments involving plantations, the actual establishment and monitoring
of the experiments could be done jointly by FRIM and FD staff under the
supervision of a research specialist. The FRIM Research Program would be
concentrated on soil surveys, fertilizer trials, species trials, coppicing
trials, agro-forestry, termite and disease control, and genetic
improvement. The Project would provide for (a) employment of two
additional professional officers (P0), one of whom should be recruited
internationally; (b) two TOs and three TAs, (c) 24 person-months for
short-term consultants to back-up various research programs; (d) a study
for developing alternative fuelwood supply strategies; and (e) the purchase
of vehicles and field or laboratory equipment. The preparation of a
detailed research program, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of disbursement against research expenditures under the Project.



- 19 -
2.37      Training.  Under the Project, training would aim to develop the
ability of the staff to manage and control indigenous forest areas, levy
stumpage fees, implement extension programs, administer funds, monitor and
evaluate the various tree planting programs, and provide technical
assistance for the wood conservation program.
2.38      All university graduates in Forestry are presently trained
overseas since Malawi does not yet have a forestry faculty. Technical
level training is provided by the Malawi College of Forestry. Although
the existing educational structure is sufficient to handle future training
demands, the school buildings are in need of repairs. The entry of women
students into the College of Forestry for the first time makes it necessary
to modify the facilities. It is expected that the proportion of women
students would increase over time to about 15% of total enrollment. Thus,
funds would be provided for the rehabilitation of some school buildings,
classrooms, dormi.ories, and service facilities.
2.39      For the sub-professional level, there are currently no permanent
facilities available to offer courses for forest guards, nurserymen and
patrolmen. The Project would provide for two additional teachers, building
additions, equipment, and teaching material. For general training, the
Project would provide for three workshops and three seminars related to
revenue collection, extension, wood conservation, smallholder tree planting
and public administration. Also, three three-month fellowships overseas or
in neighboring countries for forest inventory and remote sensing would be
financed under the Project.
E. Project Cost
2.40      Total Project costs are estimated at MK37.7 million (US$19.6
million) of which MK15.9 million (US$8.4 million), or about 42%, represent
foreign exchange costs. Details of Project costs are presented in
Annex I, and are summarized on the following page:



- 20 -
VA-
_lM Aln ONT UW
(WANCA I000                                  (031 000)
s TOt                                      Z Total
Z Fhr1  Ba.                                Z Fonda  De
Lod     Fohs   Total  Fxcmo   Casts   Lowal  Fofi*u  Total  E,dufhu   Caet
1. nWESTNENT a5S
A. CIVILI                                2091.0  1,457.2  3O3.1          41      13   1613.5   69.5  1,975.1         41      13
B.   IICZM  NACSIOERT                      644.0  23M.. 30.5             79      11    357.8 1389.2  1,667.0         79      11
C. EDUhNifr NDO lOFFM    ITuE              175.4   610.3   736.3         78       3.    97.S  339.3   436.3          73       3
D. DIEENBl  FOR MIEL FAR                 1701.3         -  1,701.3        -       6    945.2        -   945.2         -       6
Toal INETIENT 0518S                         4618.7  49424.5  99043.2        49      34  2,565.9 245.1   5024.0          49      34
Phuical EmtlnUm,ls,                         412.3   256.1   689.3        30       3    268-1   114.9   363.0         30       3
Price Cmntimnwen                         1381.4  1,178.0  3,059.3         39     11      500.1  497.0  1,297.0       33       9
Tota IN UIJM  CTIJEIT§IE                    69982.6  5,39.3 12791.9         45      48  3,34.1 3P069.9 69704.0          46      45
- -        -          ~~~~~~~~~MM M    uxf=   mm                -       mu
II.   RN   CaOSS
A. SALRIES AMSLLUCE                     3,433.6        - 3,433.6         -      13  1910.3         - 1,910.3         -      13)
I. 3EHIM NO ANDIIER tIINg COSTS  2,031.8 72412.4 4,464.3                54      17  MtM39.? 1340.2  2;410.1         54      li
C. ANTENCE NOlSFFICE WqJEDEES             449.9   247.5   697.4         35       3    249.9  137.5   37.4           35       3
D. MATERTALS                            t160.t 1t,302.3 2,362.4         55       9    N3.9  m.5  1,312.4            55       9
E. tUIaLLED LANE                        2,573.3        - 29572.3         -      10   1 432.4       - 1,432.4         -      to
F. VOKSHPS.STUDlE  AID TRUININS           714.5   632.6  19347.0        47       5    396.9  351.4   748.4          47       5
6. TEDIICAL ASTWNE                            - 2,931.5 2,61.5          too     11         - t,656.4  1,656.4      100      U
Tot  RECERENT CITs                         10,293.1  7,576.3 17t369.4       42      66  5,718.4 4y20-.1  9,97.5         42      6
Price Cot1nmciff                         4,466.6 2,546.9  7,013.5        36      26  IrM.4 1,081.1 2,936.5           36      20
otal DNlluII CIITII:ENCIES                 14,759.7 10I23.2 24,32.9         41      92   7,63.7 S,290.2 129914.0        41     96
= - -_ _ _u - _ -
Total BASELIE COSS                          14,911.8 1O00.9 26f,912.6        45    100  3,25.3 6.667.1 14,911.5          43     100
Phuical Ctmtinmcius                         432.5   206.8   689.3         30       3    268.1  114.9   333.0          30       3
Price Conttnmnius                          6.347.9 3724.9 10,072.          37     37  2,705.4 1,5711.1  4,63.5        37      29
Total PROT COS                              21,742.2 15v32.5 37V674.1        42    140  11,257.3 B360.1 19M61.0          43     131
Febrwrd   23, 1M   i1:10
2.41             Project base costs were estimated at prices as of January 1986.
A physical contingency of 1OX was included for civil works and furniture
and equipment to allow for possible design changes. A physical contingency
of 15% was included for the small farmer investment bonus, because of
uncertainty about both the level of demand for seedlings from the nurseries
and the survival rate of the seedlings planted. For all other cost
categories, no provision was made for physical contingencies. Price
contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis: for local costs the
rates were 11% for 1986, 10% for 1987, and 9X thereafter; for foreign
exchange costs, the rates were 7.5% for 1986, 8% for 1987 through 1990, and
5% for 1991 and 1992. In view of the gap between domestic and foreign
inflation rates, the exchange rate is assumed to adjust so as to maintain



- 21 -
purchasing power parity. The total price contingencies amount to about 29Z
of the Project's base cost in dollars. Taxes included in Project costs are
negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties and
sales tax.
2.42      Project costs provide for a total of 90 person-mOnths of
long-term consultancies and 41 person-months of short-term consultancies,
implying an estimated total base cost of US$1.7 million. The Project would
also provide for about MK 5.0 million (US$2.6 million), including
contingencies to cover salary expenses of incremental local staff.
F. Financing
2.43      Tentative financing of Project costs would be as follows:
US Dollar (million)
Financing Plan                    Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                               8.3          8.4         16.7
Government                         2.9          -            2.9
11.2         8.4         19.6
2.44      The proposed Bank loan of US$16.7 million would finance 85Z of
total Project costs. The Bank loan would be made to the Government of
Malawi on standard terms. The Government would meet the remaining US$2.9
million or on average 15% of Project costs in an increasing annual scale
(para. 3.20). Funds generated by the implementation of the Forest Revenue
Collection System would be sufficient to meet the Government contribution
(para. 5.07).
G. Environmental Impact
2.45      The proposed Project would be expected to have a significant
beneficial impact on the conservation of forest resources which play such a
prominent role in Malawi's macro-ecology.  Malawi's forests are dwindling
at an alarming rate due to the increasing demand for both fuelwood and
agricultural land. Without the Project, the quality of life would continue
to deteriorate at a much faster rate since air and water pollution would
increase, crop yields would decline and unique plant gene pools and
wildlife resources would be threatened.
2.46      Since the Project consists of tree planting programs including
provision of incentives, wood conservation programs and policy measures to
control and manage the existing forest resources and restrict its
uninhibited exploitation, to date it can be considered the most
comprehensive attempt in Malawi to reverse the trend of forest depletion.
The ecological benefits are probably best reflected in the implementation
targets which at full Project implementation of the wood production and
conservation measures would achieve the saving of at least 8000 ha annually
of natural forest that otherwise would be cut down. It is also expected



- 22 -
that the Project's impact on forest conservation would be enhanced
substantially whan price incentives come into effect and trigger a broad
response of the private sector to produce more wood. Until prices are high
enough, however, the Government plantation program would help to reduce
significantly the pressure on natural forests.
2.47      Last but not least, Government fuelwood plantations to be
established under the Project in the Mount Mulanje area would serve as a
protective belt against encroachment of the unique Mulanje Cedar
(Widdringtonia whytei) which has not only economic value as an excellent
timber for furniture production but scientific and cultural value because
it is the only species of a South African genus which extends to the
tropics. The Mulanje stands, therefore, represent an exceptional gene pool
for future regeneration and expansion of this particular species.



- 23 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Reorganization of FD
3.01      The reorganization plan of the FD as summarized in Chart I has
been approved by the Government and the FD has already initiated the
reorganization of its headquarters. The Forestry Department, the Forestry
Extension, and Forestry Support Services Divisions will be headed by Deputy
Chief Forestry Officers. The Project Coordinator will be the head of the
Forestry Extension Division which includes the Project's core activities
such as management and control of the indigenous forest areas in Customary
Land, revenue collection, forestry extension, small farmer tree planting
programs, energy plantations, project accounting and staffing. The units
for M & E and Planning will be under the Forestry Planning Branch and the
Energy Studies Unit will be under the Forestry Research Branch in the
Forestry Support Services Division. The appointment of the Project
Coordinator would be a condition for Loan Effectiveness. His
qualifications, experience and terms of reference should be acceptable to
the Bank.
Forest Management and Revenue Collection
3.02      As a result of the modification of the Forest Act in 1985, the FD
has a clear mandate and a legal basis for protecting, managing, and
controlling all non-private forests in the country. Under the Project, the
Forestry Extension Division would establish a simple administrative system
in the forests on Customary Land which would improve the existing system in
the gazetted forest reserves. The forest areas would be subdivided into
Area Control Units. These would be the basic administrative units covering
between 30,000 and 50,000 ha of indigenous forest managed by a Technical
Assistant (TA) who would supervise 10-15 forest guards (FG). One FG would
be assisted by two patrolmen (PM), paid on a daily wage basis as unskilled
labor. The head of the ACUs would report to the District Forest Officer.
3.03      The District Forest Officer would be responsible for supervising
two to three ACUs and overseeing the functioning of the Revenue Collection
Posts (RCP) in his district. The RCPs would be located at strategic points
within the Malawian Road network to control the wood movement and charge a
royalty on all wood by-passing the ACU officers. The RCP would be manned
around the clock by two forest guards. The RCP staff would be changed on a
regular basis to avoid illegal pay-offs resulting from too close
familiarity with fuelwood and charcoal dealers.
3.04      To supervise and audit revenue collection, one Senior Executive
Officer, two accountants at headquarters, and two accountants and three
assistant accountants in each of the Regional offices would be employed.
This staff would be additional to the staff of the current revenue
collection personnel for forest reserves.



- 24 -
Extension
3.05      The Forestry Advisory Services Branch would be responsible for
implementing the Pilot Forestry Extension Units (FEU) which would establish
close links with the Farmer Tree Planting and Incentive Program. During
the first two years, six FEUs would be set up in priority areas. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would monitor continuously the achievements
of the Project to assess whether the Forest Extension Unit had made an
impact on farmers' attitudes towards tree planting and whether cooperation
with the Agricultural Extension Service had been successfully established.
If the results were positive, Forestry Extension would be expanded by three
more units before Project completion. A Professional Forest Officer with
special training in extension would be responsible for the Pilot Extension
Program and would supervise units for training, publicity, and coordination
of field work. The field extension units would be based in the District
Offices of the FD and would closely cooperate with the Agricultural
Extension Service. The units would be responsible for a variety of
activities, including: (a) establishing an efficient distribution mechanism
for seedlings from project nurseries and seed packages for private seedling
production; (b) integrating tree planting into the agricultural production
system; Cc) serving as forestry subject matter specialists for agricultural
extension; (d) monitoring on-farm tree planting and paying out the tree
planting investment bonus; (e) coordineting the forestry staff in ACUs and
nursery men with the extension service; (f) mobilizing farmers, village
action groups, and local and traditional authorities to adopt and promote
tree planting programs; (g) acting as a two-way conduit between forest
research and farmers; and (h) providing assistance to farmers interested in
establishing demonstration woodlots.
Investment Incentives
3.06      Two major temporary incentive programs would be implemented under
the Project. First, each subsidized seedling would be sold to farmers by
the FD at one tambala (production cost 5 tambala). The farmer would either
pick up the seedlings directly from the nursery or from distribution points
set up by the FD. For farmers wishing to produce their own seedlings, the
nurseries or forestry extension service would provide seedling production
packages free of charge. The Government cost per package would be MK7.
Second, the seed and seedling program would be followed by the payment of
an investment bonus of five tambala for every tree which survives the first
two years after planting or some other combination of payment in cash or in
kind (such as food or fertilizers) acceptable to the Bank. The forest
extensionist and district forest officers would be responsible for
registering the names and locations of the farmers who purchase more than
300 seedlings or get a seed package. Bonus payments would be made through
the extension service system.
Energy Studies Unit
3.07      The Energy Studies Unit (ESU) would be responsible for carrying
out wood energy related studies, the implementation of the pilot charcoal
production scheme and the fuel efficient stove program. ESU is currently
headed by a Senior Energy Officer, who is assisted by an Energy Officer and
an Energy Surveys Officer.



- 25 -
Training
3.08      The internal training program would be implemented by the Malawi
College of Forestry (MCF). The annual output of 10 TOs and 28 TAs from
MCF would meet the requirements for filling the 14 posts for TOs over two
years and the 70 posts for TAs over three years. No additional capacity
for MCF would be required. However, for the sub-professional level, the
facilities in MCF would be expanded to train 121 FGs, 66 NMs, and 405 PMs.
Thereafter, the facility would be used for refresher courses. Two
additional teachers would be employed to teach these courses in cooperation
with the staffs of MCF and FD. For specific subjects, the FD would
organize three workshops and three seminars on improvement of revenue
collection, indigenous forest management, extension, wood conservation,
organization and management, and forestry economics. Twenty-four
consultant-weeks would be funded for hiring specialists to organize and
give lectures at seminars and workshops. The training program related to
the revenue collection and accounting would be prepared as a part of the
study on administrative procedures for revenue collection (para. 2.15).
The remaining training program would be prepared by September 1, 1986 and
should be satisfactory to the Bank.
Research
3.09      The wood energy research program as outlined in working paper
No. 11 would be carried out by FRIM in close cooperation with the Forestry
Extension Division, and agroforestry research with the Agricultural
Research Department. FRIM personnel would be responsible for the design and
overall implementation of research programs and analyses of data. Actual
establishment of the experiments and part of the monitoring could be done
jointly by FRIM and staff of the FD under the supervision of a research
specialist. Other experiments would be carried out solely by FRIlM or in
cooperation with agricultural research staff in the Agricultural Research
Department.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.10      A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would support the 7it.Ject
Coordinator in monitoring and evaluating implementation of the project
components and in particular would focus on the effectiveness of the
revenue collection system, the incentiva program, the pilot forestry
service and farmers' responses to the tree planting programs. In addition.
together with ESU in the Forestry Research Division, it would monitor and
evaluate the results of the charcoal production pilot program and the
introduction of the fuel efficient stove program.
3.11      The unit would have a small professional and technical staff at
HQ, with the bulk of field work carried out either through the normal
functioning of the FD field staff or by contracted consultants. The M & E
unit would develop the necessary information system, based on the results
of the socioeconomic baseline study (to be completed in April 1986) to
service the needs of the project management and provide the basis for
periodic progress reports. It would also compile and disseminate
information obtained regularly from those departments, divisions and other



- 26 -
institutions involved in implementation of the Project. Also, it would
organize and prepare the midterm review to be carried out after three years
of project implementation (para. 3.22). The M & E unit would be headed by
an M & E Officer who would be supported by one TO, seven TAs, and one
clerical officer (CO).
Planning
3.12      The Planning Unit, under the Forestry Support Services Division,
would be responsible for formulating component objectives, setting
priorities, and assisting the divisional managers in preparing the annual
work programs and budget proposals. A forest inventory and land survey
section would be set up with the assistance of an internationally recruited
specialist who for six months would assist the FD in selecting the
photogrammetric and remote sensing technology compatible with other systems
in the country, specifying the equipment, selecting the appropriate
personnel, and preparing the work program.
B. Procurement
3.13      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines and is summarized below:
Procurement Method
Total
Prolect Element                       ICB     LCB     Other    N.A.   Cost
Civil Works                                   2.0      0.5              2.5
(2.0)1/  (0.5)            (2.5)
Vehicles, Machinery                   3.6     0.7      0.1              4.4
Equipment, Furniture, Materials    (3.6)   (0.7)    (0.1)              (4.4)
Training, Technical Assistance                         2.8              2.8
(2.8)           (2.8)
Incentives                                                       1.6    1.6
(1.6)  (1.6)
Operating Costs                                                  8.3    8.3
_____              (5.4)  (5.4)
Total                             3.6      2.7      3.4       9.9   19.6
(3.6)   (2.7)    (3.4)    (7.0) (16.7)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Specifically, the following procedures would be adopted:
(a) orders for vehicles, machinery, equipment, furniture and
materials would be packaged or bulked as far as possible;
orders of US$100,000 and above would be procured through



- 27 -
international competitive bidding (ICB) for suppliers who
maintain or agree to maintain adequate after-sales service
and inventory of spare parts in Malawi;
(b) orders for vehicles, machinery, materials, furniture,
and equipment below US$100,000 would be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank; these orders would not, however,
exceed US$800,000 in aggregate; items costing less than
US$30,000 would be procured under local shopping procedures,
with a minimum of three quotations required; these orders
would not, however, exceed US$100,000 in aggregate.
(c) civil works to be constructed in accordance with Government
standards acceptable to the Bank which, due to their small
size and distribution in time and space, would not be
suitable for ICB, would be constructed through LCB; in cases
where LCB is not feasible, force account of the Ministry of
Works or Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry would be
allowable up to a maximum of $500,000.
(d) the selection and employment of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
3.14      Copies of tender documents against contracts expected to cost in
excess of US$100,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval prior to
the issuance of invitation to bid. It is expected that four or five
documents would be reviewed covering over 90Z of procurement of vehicles,
machinery, equipment, furniture and materials, and one or two documents
covering about 12% of civil works. Bid evaluations and recommendations for
award would be submitted to the Bank for approval before contracts were
awarded. In the evaluation of ICB bids for purchase of vehicles,
equipment, machinery, tools and spare parts, domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15Z or the existing rate of duty, whichever is
lower.
C. Disbursement
3.15      Funds from the Loan Account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of total costs for vehicles and macbinery (US$2.1
million);
(b) 100% of total costs for equipment, office furniture and
materials (US$2.3 million);
(c) 100% of total costs for civil works (US$2.5 million);
(d) 100% of small farmer incentives (US$1.6 million);
(e) 100% of technical assistance (US$1.9 million);
(f)  100% of workshops, studies, training (US$0.9 million).



- 28 -
3.16      For the categories of salaries and allowances, vehicle and
machinery running costs, maintenance and office ov3rheads, and wages, funds
of $5.4 million would be disbursed as follows: 85Z of total expenditures
for the first $1.8 million total expenditures ($1.5 million disbursed), 70%
of total expenditures for the next $3.0 million total expenditures ($2.1
million disbursed), and 50% of total expenditures for the last $3.6 million
total expenditures ($1.8 million disbursed).
3.17      Disbursement against contracts or purchase orders of less than
US$20,000 equivalent, and expenditures for the incentive program and
incremental operating costs would be supported by Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) signed by the Chief Forest Officer of the FD. Full
supporting documentation in respect of such SOEs would be retained by the
borrower and made available for inspection by IBRD during normal Project
supervision. All other disbursements would ba made against full
documentation. In order to expedite disbursement of funds under the above
categories of the Loan, a Special Account with an initial deposit of
approximately US$1.0 million would be established and maintained in the
project entity's name. The special account would be replenished by the
Bank (IBRD) in accordance with agreed procedures. Establishment of the
Special Account would be a condition of disbursement.
3.18      A schedule showing the estimated pattern of loan disbursement is
found in Annex 2, Table 1. This schedule is based on the Project
requirements, drawing on the implementation experience gained as a result
of the first phase project. The regional and standard disbursement
profiles for agricultural projects were not considered appropriate since
the proposed Project's scope and design differ significantly from
those of agricultural or forestry projects. Although the number of wood
energy projects is still too small to work out a standard disbursement
schedule, the 7 year disbursement period coincides well with the standard
disbursement profiles for Malawi.
D. Accounts, Audits and Reports
3.19      The audited accounts of the first phase project have been
produced without major reservations by the auditors (the Auditor General).
During the implementation of the first phase project, a satisfactory system
for financial management, internal controls and budgeting has been
established. Separate records, relating to all expenditures of the
Forestry Department, would be kept in accordance with acceptable rccounting
practices. All accounts relating to the Project, including Statements of
Expenditures, would be audited annually by independent and external
auditors (including the Auditor General) acceptable to the Bank. The
audited accounts, including the Statements of Expenditures, together with
the Auditors' Reports, would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of
the end of each financial year.
3.20      Detailed annual reports covering the physical implementation of
their respective Project components in the previous year, and annual
budgets for the ensuing year, would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
at the beginning of each fiscal year. The FD's reports would include the
following information: (i) nursery data: production capacity, actual



- 29 -
production, actual seedling sales, cost of seedling production; (ii)
suallholder tree planting data: quantity of trees planted, tree survival
rate and distribution of trees by districts; (iii) tree planting
incentives: bonus amounts and distribution by districts; (iv) forest
revenue collection: amount of revenue and its distribution by district,
quantity of wood sales and its distribution by sales, and direction of wood
sales by sources and sale points; (v) forest plantations: area planted,
cost of establishment or maintenance per hectare, estimated survival rate
and yields; (vi) stove component: test results, stoves sold, production
cost, market price, population's response and artisans' participation. For
the charcoal pilot production, a progress report would be prepared after 9
months, a final evaluation report after 15 months, and a feasibility study
for commercial charcoal production after 18 months.
E. Supervision and Reviews
3.21      The major tool for supervising the Project is the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit which would provide the data essential for project
management and Bank supervision. In view of the innovative character of
the Project and the uncertainties related to untried project elements such
as revenue collection, extension, the incentive program, charcoal
production and introduction of efficient wood stoves, the M & E Unit, in
its semi-annual progress reporting, would focus primarily on the
performance of these project elements. Within six months of project
completion, the M & E Unit would submit a Project Completion Report. As
part of the supervision and review process, the Management Planning Unit
would set the targets against which the M & E Unit would measure project
effectiveness. In addition, the Management Planning Unit would provide the
annual work plan, staffing targets and cost estimates well before the
beginning of the fiscal year. The Energy Unit would carry out, on an
annual basis, a survey of wood market prices and wood production costs in
the project area. These data would provide the basis for determining the
annual increase of stumpage rates. In addition, a joint in-depth midterm
review would be carried out by the Bank and the Government after three
years of project implementation to modify and adjust the project design if
necessary.
F. Status of Preparation
3.22      The following main features for initiating project implementation
are being undertaken or have been completed:
(a)   s'te selection for nurseries of the farmers' tree planting
program, Government plantations, ACUs and RCPs, and Pilot
Extension Units have been carried out and approved by the Bank;
(b)   preparation of the job descriptions (terms of reference) for the
Project Coordinator and the heads of the Extension Unit (Forestry
Advisory Branch), M & E Unit, Planning Unit and Pilot Charcoal
Production Unit have been completed and approved by the Bank;
(c)   design for houses and offices has been determined by the FD.  The
construction of new headquarters for FD, to be financed under
Wood Energy Project I, has been started;



- 30 -
(d)   hiring of new staff has been initiated;
(e)   a baseline study financed under Wood Energy I is now underway and
will be completed in April 1986;
(f)   terms of reference for the inventory consultant, stove
consultant, expatriate charcoal production manager and evaluator
for the charcoal pilot project are currently drafted and will be
finalized by the end of April 1986.



- 31 -
IV. PRODUCTIONl, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Wood Production and Markets
4.01     Output.  Eucalyptus would be planted in all plantations belonging
to the FD as well as in farmers' woodlots. Small quantities of other
species might also be produced on some farmers' woodlots. The total area
planted during the project period and the wood produced are summarized
below:
Summary of Output from Wood Production Components
Total
Average                Output
Area                                         Annual    Rotationl/  for One
Yield    Output     Period      Rotation
(m3/ha)  ('000 a3)   tYrs.)    ('000 m3)
Government Plantations
Mulanje (3,000 ha)                 20.5      62          16          992
Lilongwe (3,000 ha)                12        36          24          864
Smallholder Woodlots (11,000 ha)    12         132         20        2 640
23U04:496
I/ Rotation is the period between planting and replanting and has in
general 4 cutting cycles of between 4 and 6 years each.
4.02      Total fuelwood production under the Project would amount to
approximately 4.5 m3 million over a period of around 20 years. Average
annual production is around 230,000 m3 which would represent 2.7X of one
year's consumption at current levels (about 8.6 m3 million), or 5.8X of the
current estimated annual fuelwood deficit of about 4 million m3. The
Project's output, although not eliminating the deficit, would create
conditions for substantially alleviating the fuelwood crisis. In view of
the current and growing shortage of fuelvood in the country and
particularly in areas where the plantations would be established, no
marketing problems are foreseen, even at the prices envisaged. Part of the
fuelwood produced on farmers' woodlots and tobacco estates would be
intended for self-sufficiency at household and estate levels. Due to
inadequate availability of or infrastructure for alternative or cheaper
sources of energy in most rural areas in the country, rural consumers of
fuelvood would remain depe-ident on fuelvood as their principal source of
energy. However, if the price were to rise substantially, so that wood
collected free would have a higher opportunity cost (in terms of possible
sale), this is likely to induce some switching to inferior fuels such as
crop residues and cattle dung where available. Because of the relatively
better infrastructure for alternative (and possibly cheaper) sources of
energy (e.g., electricity, coal or kerosene) in most urban centers, a
substantial increase in fuelwood prices could provoke a switch to such
fuels; their demand can be considered relatively price elastic at
substantially higher prices.



- 32 -
B. Prices
4.03      Everyone has essentially free access to wood on Customary Land in
Malavi.  Fuelwood, like most grazing land, is owned in common and exploited
under conditions of unregulated individualistic competition within the
administrative boundaries or the tribal communities. Each household
regards the supply of fuelwood as largely uaffected by its actions. The
individual household's consumption is not perceived to diminish noticeably
the total forest resources available to the community in the way that
consumption of a purely private good would. However, forests are not a
pure public good; the combined actions or use of all households have
significant effects on the sustainable consumption rate and, hence, on the
amount of fuelwood as a resource. Even when ina:viduals begin to perceive
an increasing rate of consumption (and hence a growing scarcity) of the
resource, there is no incentive for the individual to conserve or prevent
an increasing use of the resource. It is through joint or coordinated
actions that the externalities (e.g., environmental deterioration,
reafforestation costs and benefits, etc.) associated with depletion of a
common resource can be internalized. Currently, individuals do not
directly bear the costs of depletion; instead, fuelwood production and
control are undertaken by the Government, financed through tax revenues.
This is undesirable both because it continues to render credence to the
notion of forests being a common property, thus reenforcing forest
depletion, and because Government is a relatively high cost producer of
fuelwood (see Annex 1, Table 2). Sole reliance on Government plantations
in the future is fiscally infeasible; budgetary constraints and high cost
make it impossible for the Government to plant on a sufficient scale to
bridge the gap between demand and sustainable supply.
4.04      It is therefore necessary to implement policies that would make
individuals bear the costs of wood consumption and enjoy the benefits of
wood production. The major instrument for this would be a rise in the
stumpage rate coupled with an improved revenue collection and forest
control system to restrict access to free wood for commercial users. xae
ultimate objective would be prices that would cover replacement costs and
hence provide an incentive for private production of fuelwood. In the
immediate future, however, until prices are at a level sufficient to
attract private producers, the Government would have to continue
subsidizing production of fuelwood. Rather than relying entirely on high
cost Government plantations (as in the past), it is preferable for the
Government to promote the most cost-effective production strategies. This
would require giving some form of incentive to private producers to correct
current market distortions in the short run.
4.05      Fuelvood for domestic use remains free.  However, the Government
raised the stumpage rate for commercial fuelwood by 50Z to MK2.70/stacked
m3 in March 1986. Thereafter, the price would rise by 15% each year in
real terms until the average replacement cost of MK1O.7/stacked m3 (in real
terms) has been reached (See Table 3, Annex 2 for calculation of stumpage
rate). The projected schedule of real stumpage rates for commercial users
is shown below, with full replacement cost being reached by January 1996.
The Government has agreed to implement a program to meet the target date



- 33 -
through increasing the rate at an average of 15% per annum and would make
all efforts to accelerate these increases so as to reach full replacement
cost by the end of 1992. Increasing the stumpage fee for wood to the full
cost recovery level at one time would be infeasible because it would create
hardship to commercial users of fuelvood and urban consumers. Also, large
administered rises would not be effective until the forestry control and
revenue collection system is firmly in place which is likely to take
several years. Instead, a phased increase 1i the price of wood to cost
recovery levels is desirable. As the price of fuelwood increases, the
pr.ce distortions will decrease, and this should stimulate production of
wood by individuals. Before such a level is reached, production incentives
in the form of subsidies should be given to small farmers by the
Government.
Projected Real Increases in Stumpage Rates for Fuelwood
March 1986 Prices
Stacked      Solid
1986                    2.7           3.9
1987                    3.1           4.1
1988                    3.6           5.1
1989                    4.1           5.9
1990                    4.7           6.7
1991                    5.4           7.7
1992                    6.2           8.9
1993                    7.2          10.3
1994                    8.3          11.9
1995                    9.5          13.6
1996                   10.7          15.3
4.06      Wood Production Incentives.  Small farmers would produce fuelwood
at approximately one-third of the Government's total economic cost, as
shown in the table below:
Present Discounted Value (at 12%) of Total Economic Costs
of Establishinfg 1 Hectare of Trees:
MK
Gov. Plantations                                894.2
Small Farmer Woodlots                           258.2
4.07      Annex 2, Table 4 presents the total economic costs and benefits
to society of a one hectare smallholder woodlot. However, as some of these
costs are borne by the Government, only a rortion of the total costs are
faced by the smallholders. Table 5, Annex 2 presents the costs and
benefits from the point of view of the farmer. It is clear that at the
current stumpage rate small farmers have no financial incentive to produce



- 34 -
fuelwood. Growing trees requires tying up the land for 21 years, with the
costs incurred principally in year one but with the benefits occurring only
at the end of year six and thereafter at five year intervals. Subsistence
farmers are generally found to have high private discount rates, assumed in
this case to be 25Z (see Malawi Forestry Sub-Sector Study, 1984, Report
No. 4927-MAI). This, combined with the low stumpage rate, means that the. e
is currently a negative return on fuelwood production. At higher stumpage
rates, the PDV of net benefits to tree planting would increase as
illustrated in Annex 2, Table 5.
4.08      The farmer faces a choice between using land for tree planting or
for agricultural crops. The assumption underlying the comparison between
tree planting and agricultural crop production is that both would compate
for land, labor and capital. However, only land that is considered
marginal for agriculture but is currently used for agricultural production
for want of a better alternative crop is considered. Annex 2, Table 6
presents annual one hectare budgets f oG various crops. Table 7, Annex 2
presents the PDV of net benefits to a one hectare 21 year rotation of
maize, groundnuts and cassava on marginal agricultural land. When this
return is compared with the return to tree planting, agricultural crops are
found to be more attractive until the stumpage rate reaches MK7.3/solid m3
(MK 5.1/stacked m3). This price assumes that the farmer receives seedlings
subsidized at the rate of 4 tambala per seedling. A stumpage rate of
1K10.6/solid m3 (MK7.4/stacked m3) would be required to equate returns in
the absence of such seedling subsidy.
4.09      Clearly, therefore, at current low stumpage rates, the provision
of subsidized seedlings and extension advice is not sufficient to induce
farmers to plant trees. In order to compensate for the impact of price
distortions on the profitability of establishing woodlots by individual
farmers, an investment bonus for tree planting is required. This bunus
would be paid at the end of two years, after which time trees require
almost no maintenance. Table 5, Annex 2 shcws the subsidy per hectare to
be paid after two years that would equate the PDV of the net benefits to
tree planting and agricultural crops. Assuming 2,000 surviving trees per
hectare, an investment bonus of approximately 5 tambala would be required
for each tree surviving two years to make tree planting profitable
vis-a-vis agricultural crop production on marginal agricultural land.
4.10      In some cases where land is so poor th-   fuelwood production is
considered preferable to agriculture, it might be thought that provision of
highly subsidized seedlings would be enough to stimulate tree plantirg.
However, farmers producing their own fuelwood might also require
compensation because they generally have a choice between investing in tree
planting and collecting fuelwood. A decision in favor of the latter would
lead to continued deforestation with adverse ecological consequences. At
the existing price regimes for wood (involving no cash outlay), growing
fuelwood would not compete well with collection of fuelwood by households
(Annex 2, Table 8). Incentives provided to farmers to grow their own
fuelwood would enable them to capture partially the benefits of
reafforestation.
4.11      Subsidies are economically justifiable where, as in this case,
they are correcting an existing market distortion. The alternative to the
investment bonuses is for the Government to continue to produce wood from



- 35 -
its plantations. This would mean a higher total economic cost for society
per hectare planted than does the small farmer subsidy scheme. As Chapter
V shows, the economic rate of return to tree planting is high; the subsidy
scheme is a more cost-effective way to get trees planted. In addition, the
fiscal buL4en is much less; the financial cost to the Government per ha of
the small farmer woodlots is around 22% of the cost per hectare of FD
plantations (See Annex 2, Table 2).
4.12      Impact of Stumpage Rate Increases on Consumers.  The increase in
stumpage rate is considered an essential part of the strategy to reach a
balance between wood energy demand and sustainable supply. However, a
substantial rise in the price of a basic necessity (wood being the
principal energy source for domestic purposes such as heating and cooking)
could cause significant hardship to consumers. The lack of data on the
price elasticities of demand for fuelwood makes it difficult to determine
the potential impact of a substantial price increase on the demand for
fuelwood. Since almost all of the commercially traded fuelwcod is
accounted fnr by urban domestic users and flue-cured tobacco estates, the
impact of a price increase on costs to urban consumers and the tobacco3
industry's profitability can be used as proxies; rural households would in
any case continue to have access to free fuelwood for their domestic needs
for some time to come.
4.13      While it is difficult to determine exactly how much consumer
prices for fuelwood might rise in the event of increased stumpage rates, it
is clear that the trebling of existing stumpage rates would nowhere near
treble the cost of wood in the urban market since transport and labor for
fuelwood are large elements in total costs and should remain unaffected.
The model in Annex 2, Table 9 suggests that consumer prices would rise at
most by 30%. Urban consumers spend around 15% of their budget on fuelvood;
the increase in stumpage rate would therefore imply, at most, a real income
decline of around 5%. However, two factors should mitigate the impact of
the stumpage increase on the real income of urban consumers. First, on the
supply side, as stumpage rates increase, it is expected that large numbers
of small farmers on the urban periphery will begin to grow wood for sale to
the urban market. This would significantly reduce transport costs.
Second, on the demand side, one component of the Project is the promotion
of more fuel efficient stoves which could substantially reduce household
expenditures on fuelwood, even at the higher stumpage rate.
4.14      Using 1983/84 estimated data for hectare budgets of  average-
smallholder and commercial tobacco producers, the impact of the recommended
price increases were evaluated (Annex 2, Tables 10 and 11). A tripling of
stumpage rates would reduce the current net profit of large scale tobacco
producers by 11%, while that for smallholder tobacco farmers would decrease
by 13%. In both cases, tobacco production would remain relatively
profitable.



- 36 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. General
5.01      The principal benefit from the Project would be the stimulation
of private fuelvood productiou and wood conservation by implementing a new
forest policy package consisting of temporary investment incentives,
an increase of Government stumpage rates, a revenue collection system and
the introduction of new wood conservation technologies. Directly, the
Project would provide for the production of fuelwood from suallholder
woodlots (supported by a network of 60 nurseries and seed packages) and
plantations established by the Government. A total of 17,000 hectares,
producing approximately 230,000 m3 of fuelwood per annum, would be
developed under the Project. The established woodlots and plantations
would also help to control soil degradation in the planted areas. More
significantly, the production of wood from such planted areas would lessen
depletion of natural woodlands as well as protecting the interdependent
soil and water resources. The Project would also provide about 3.3
man-days of employment for laborers, excluding labor required by
smallholders for establishment of woodlots. The introduction of more
efficient charcoal production and use technologies under the Project would
result In substantial wood savings. It is estimated that the production of
each ton of charcoal would save 10 m3 of stacked fuelwood per year; thus if
the commercial production reaches about 20,000 tons annually, as expected,
this would amount to savings of around 200,000 stacked O3. Similarly, the
introduction of improved charcoal efficient stoves would reduce charcoal
and wood consumption by 25% to 40%. Due to the pilot nature of the
improved technology, no attempt has been made to include these benefits in
the calculation of the economic rate of return to the Project.
B. Project Budgetary Implications
5.02      Budgetary constraints were not a serious problem in the
implementation of the first phase project. However, Government budgetary
resources are likely to be tighter in the future. Therefore, future
budgetary resources should be more efficiently allocated mnd utilized.
Total base Project costs are estimated at MK 29.3 million, of which 68%
would be recurrent or operating costs and the rest capital costs. During
the implementation of the first phase, two issues emerged as important.
First, the relationship between capital and recurrent expenditure was
characterized by considerable bias for the former, implying that more
productive capacity was created than could be utilized or serviced by the
amount of services or material made available through recurrent
expenditure. The Project, as designed, would provide adequate working
capital for better utilization of productive capacity created not only
under the Project but also under the previous phase (Annex 2, Table 19).



- 37 -
5.03      The second issue concerns efficient al'location of budgetary
resources within the forestry sector. A substantial amount of both capital
and recurrent expenditures was related to the development and maintenance
of industrial forestry (including Viphya) during the implementation of the
first phase project. Given the overproduction of industrial timber
(relative to demand), such investments are no longer a priority and are
relatively less productive than investments in fuelwood production. The
Government has agreed to discontinue the establishment of industrial
plantations. A decision on the maintenance of Viphya would be made after
the results of the pilot Viphya Charcoal Project (part of the Wood
Industries Restructuring Project financed by the Bank) indicate the
intensity of management required.
5.04      Average annual incremental budgetary allocations for the Project
would amount to MK 4.8 million. This is not likely to exert a heavy
financial burden on the Government in general, since gross revenue
collected from forestry during Project implementation is estimated to
average a similar amount per annum. This amount would rise to over MK8
million in the sixth year of Project implementation (see Annex 2, Table
20). Thus, from a budgetary point of view, the Project would be
self-financing.
C. Economic Returns
5.05      The economic analysis examines the two related questions of
whether the country should invest in the Project and what the costs and
benefits of doing this would be. One major problem that the analysis has
to grapple with is how to value fuelvood production. As indicated earlier,
the existing local market is distorted; the price of fuelwood reflects the
low private costs of clearing forests at present rather than the
considerable long-term costs of replacement, not to mention environmental
degradation. Therefore, in the economic analysis, the wood output from the
Project has been constantly valued at the economic cost of supplying the
same quantity of fuel (in energy equivalent units) through the next best
alternative. The choices include: (a) production of charcoal from
exploitation of existing forestry resources such as Viphya; (b)
continuation of unrestricted exploitation or depletion of existing natural
forests; and (c) use of alternative sources of energy (such as kerosene or
electricity).
5.06      Details of the cal.:ulations for the alternative measures of
valuing fuelwood are presented in Annex 2, Tables 15-17. On the cost side,
the following observations are pertinent:
(a) Costs include physical contingencies and are in January 1986
constant prices.
(b) The foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the
official rate of the kwacha which is considered to reflect
its appropriate value.
(c) It was not necessary to adjust for taxes, as virtually all
inputs are free of import duties.



- 38 -
(d) Project demand for unskilled labor will occur principally in
the peak season and hence unskilled labor was priced at the
official rural minimum wage which is believed to reflect its
scarcity value.
(e) Traditionally, forestry projects do not include an
opportunity cost of land which is assumed idle or unsuitable
for agriculture. With increasing population pressure on
land, this assumption is questionable. For this reason,
ERRs were calculated including the current rental cost
(MKIO/ha) as a proxy for the opportunity cost of land.
5.07      For the calculation of the whole Project's rate of return, the
costs and benefits associated with the pilot schemes for charcoal
production and utilization were excluded. The total costs of the Project's
iLstitutional development and support services were included. The rate of
return for the Project varies from 10% to 26%, depending on the alternative
that is chosen to value the output of wood from the Project. In all
likelihood, 10% is a very low estimate because there would be other
benefits to institutional development that have not been included.
5.08      The rates of return associated with the individual major
components are summarized below; the rates for the components are higher
than for the whole Project because the institutional development costs are
not included.
Economic Rates of Return Associated with
Ways to Value Fuelwood
Total Project Wood Production
ERR (C)
Kerosene                                  26
Viphya Charcoal                            13
Depletion of Indigenous Forest            10
Economic Value         ERR Estimate
Project Component                          of Wood                  (Z)
MKK/Solid m3
(a) Government Plantations
Imported Kerosene                       58.3                     42
Viphya Charcoal                         26.7                     26
Depletion of Indigenous Forest          22.8                     23
(b) Smallholder Woodlots
Kerosene                                58.3                     69
Viplhya Charcoal                        26.7                     47
Depletion of Indigenous Forest          22.8                     43



- 39 -
5.09      The output from the Government plantation component is destined
for the urban domestic market2/. These users have several alternatives.
Valuing fuelvood in terms of its kerosene equivalence gives it a very high
value. In practice, few urban consumers could afford kerosene. A cheaper
alternative is to make charcoal in the Viphya and bring it to urban centers
such as Blantyre where charcoal is used by a substantial portion of the
population. Because of the long distances Involved, this alternative also
implies a fairly high economic value to fuelwood.
5.10      Finally, the most likely alternative to fuelwood plantations is
the continuing depletion of the existing indigenous forest resources. This
alternative involves substantial transport costs, as the distance required
to fetch wood is likely to be large, given the fact that trees have not
been replanted on land alreadv deforested. Many tobacco estates are
-currently going nearly 100 km to fetch wood. Projections of demand by
urban consumers alone suggest total depletion of indigenous forest within a
100 km radius of Blantyre by the year 2,000, not taking rural demand into
account3/. 150 km is taken as the expected average distance from which
wood would have to be fetched over the next 30 years.4/ One of the
benefits derived from the establisahment of plantations would be the savings
in transportation costs, as wood could be fetched from 50 km rather than
150 km. Thore are also environmental costs associated with destruction of
natural foresit. While these are extremely difficult to quantify, a rough
estimate is nade in terms of the possible losses in agricultural
productivity.
5.11      The economic returns to the Governmaent plantation component are
calculated, inputing in turn the economic value of fuelwood implied by
these three alternatives. The ERR varies from 222 to 42Z.
5.12      Part of the output from the small farmers' woodlots will be
consumed domestically. However, the aim of the increase in stumpage rate
and temporary tree planting incentives is to induce farmers to plant trees
for sale to the urban markets. Valuing the output from the woodlots in the
same way as for the Government plantation component (assuming the woodlots
are on average 50 km from urban centres) gives an ERR varying between 43%
and 69%. The returns are substantially higher than for the Government
plantations; this is a reflection of the much lower total economic costs of
tree planting by smallholders5/. This is the principal justification for
2/ On average, Government plantations are 50 km from demand and hence the
transport costs for 50 km (roundtrip 100 km) are subtracted from the
value of wood in the urban market to get the value of standing timber.
3/  See Working Paper No. 1 (P. Ryan).
4/  Using an average distance of 150 km is a shortcut.  In reality, there
will be a progression from 100 km to 200 km and the discounted average
is probably lower than 150 km so that alternative coats tend to be
overestimated.
5/  Total costs and yields are based on the one hectare model shown in
Annex 2, Table 4, multiplied by the total number of hectares planted
during the Project years. See Annex 2, Table 14.



- 40 -
the subsidy scheme: to promote more cost-effective tree planting which
under the current distorted price regime would not be forthcoming.
5.13      The valuation of the wood that is consumed domestically presents
some difficulties. For rural subsistence households, purchasing charcoal
or kerosene is financially not a plausible option, nor do distribution
channels exist in the rural areas. In the absence of woodlots, rural
households would continue to collect wood from the indigenous forest.
Valuing the output at the environmental costs of depletion plus the
opportunity cost of labor spent gathering fuelwood rather than in other
productive activities gives an ERR of 32Z to the woodlots (see Annex 2,
Table 18 for details of the calculation).
Project Risks
5.14      The principal risk of the Project lies in the simultaneous
implementation of the proposed policy package which has not been tried
before in such a comprehensive way in Africa. The elements of the package
are an increase of stumpage rates for fuelwood, establishment of a new
forestry control and revenue collection system to make the stumpage rate
effective, and a temporary incentive program for tree planting. These
elements were designed to minimize the attitude of regarding wood as a
common property' and to stimulate wood production and conservation on a
broad basis. However, if one element fails to be implemented, the Project
may be unable to achieve its objectives. Provision has, therefore, been
made to monitor and review closely implementation of these elements by the
M & E unit and to carry out an in-depth midterm review after three years of
project implementation in order to check the Government's ability to
c-ntrol the flow of commercial fuelwood, raise the stumpage rate, and
mobilize the private sector and small farmers to plant more trees.  The
midterm review together with permanent monitoring should enable the project
team to make major adjustments and modifications after three years, if
necessary.
5.15      Although revenue collection combined with forest controls have
been practiced (though ineffectively) in Forest Reserves, there is
currently little precedent for organizing revenue collection and controls
in the much larger forests on Customary Land which remain under the
ownership of local authorities.   People consider it their right to cut
wood in these forests. To reduce the risk of antogonizing the rural
population, the following measures would be taken: (a) the forest guards
on Customary Land, besides controlling and preserving the existing forest
areas, would provide technical assistance to the farmers to use these
forests on a sust:inable yield basis for their fuelwood supply or to
establish their own fuelwood resource; (b) to increase the forestry
officials' understanding of the socio-economic situation of the farmers,
the Project would provide specific training in this regard for these
officers; and (c) the FD would launch an information campaign to convince
party leaders, chiefs and village headmen of the program and get their full
support.
5.16      Road checks on fuelwood transport are new and wood dealers may
develop alternatives to evade the check points. However, since transport
distances exceed 50 km for most of the fuelwood and 80 km for charcoal,



- 41 -
transport means other than trucks would be uneconomical. Also, the
location of the RCPs close to the indigenous forest areas makes it more
difficult to carry wood in small quantities to the distant city markets or
estates.
5.17      Cash payments of incentives and cash collection at RCPs and ACUs
exposes the staff to bribes and constitutes a risk to the Project.
However, it is the judgement of the mission that the risk will be kept at
an acceptable level sinue the Forestry Department is accustomed to handling
cash related to stumpage collection and cutting fees in Forest Reserves.
To date, the FD has an excellent record of honesty and dedication and the
risk of misappropriation of funds is not high. Nevertheless, provisions
have been made (a) to monitor consistently, through the M & E unit, the
incentive payments carried out by the extension officials; (b) to rotate
the staff in the RCPs regularly to avoid too close a familiarity with the
wood dealers in a particular area; and (c) to have more than one person on
duty at all times in the RCPs.
5.18      Management of a more complex project in an expanded Forest
Department does constitute a Project risk. However, the risk would be
diminished by the fact that young but appropriately trained staff
(available in the country) would be prepared for their specific tasks in
workshops and seminars provided under the Project. In addition, the
proposed reorganization will help to make the FD more manageable.



- 42 -
VI ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During Negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) Qualifications, experience and terms of reference for the
positions of the Project Coordinator and the heads of the
Extension Unit (Forestry Advisory Branch) (para. 2.16), the
M & E Unit (para. 2.18), the Planning Unit (para. 2.20) and
the Pilot Charcoal Production Unit (para. 2.30) would be
acceptable to the Bank and the Government would appoint
the heads for the key posts of the Extension Unit (Forestry
Advisory Branch), the Planning, M & E and the Pilot Charcoal
Production Units not later than September 1, 1986;
(b) a detailed training program satisfactory to the Bank would
be prepared by September 1, 1986 (para. 2.37);
(c) the audit accounts, including Statements of Expenses
together with the Auditor's Reports, would be submitted to
the Bank within 9 months of the end of each financial year
(para. 3.19);
Cd) a joint midterm review would be carried out by the Bank and
the Government after three years of project implementation
(para. 3.21);
(e) the target date would be 1996 for reaching a full cost
recovery stumpage rate for fuelwood. That would constitute
an annual average increase of 15% above inflation. The
Government would have the flexibility to vary the yearly
increases In the stumpage rate and would make all efforts to
accelerate the increases in order zo meet the target by 1992
(para. 4.05);
(f) in order to encourage farmers to plant more trees the
Government would provide incentives to smallholder farmers
who register their seedlings with the FD. The incentives
would consist of (i) payment of 5 tambala for each tree
which survived 2 years after planting, or (ii) other
payments in cash or kind, as determined by the FD and the
Bank (para. 3.06).
6.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) preparation to the satisfaction of the Bank of the
procedures and regulations for revenue collection and
incentive payments (para. 2.15);
(b)  appointment of the Project Coordinator (para. 3.01).



- 43 -
6.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) establishment of the special account (para. 3.17);
(b) against research expenditures, the preparation of a detailed
research program (para. 2.36).
6.04      Subject to these assurances, the proposed Project is reconmended
for an IBRD loan of US$16.7 million repayable in 20 years including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



hull                       IIItaAtt***                              w            **b2>bAtti  H f I 4U  f  RhI   a- I I p |- PllI '
I  'I    !,l,l I'"'               ! (ii i'ii  Iii                     I                                                    It i     1    I                   I
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pi j                                                                                            i  llj  !!f!!1   l.§. :::!  :::::,    |s| |a| 
Ii  II   I  11j               !!!!!!!..... .  w.,Ir*  w.X.X.....   - - aamma--aaaa. .-.                                     ...........            .......!
I    s       .ii   t         , ,, si  t   ...,. a.                                              .    .              ...    ..-.....                .......
*                                      ! s ....... ... ,  .. i3.... ....., ..    .........11
5        r         i *;itllsg:"|ul . |    ...83s..a   .31.8.3   Yt.s ..    ' .    3S.IWSS  .              . ...  ...........  ..  ........  i...i
i j !                                  ...~IW:U3M          m    |in   . . . ..........     ... U3*ZSi§  .|a t . -            . .. .... .                                        I..
Wop  P !"Pfl 1==p.1~~.3   .a 
I  ~~                   ,   *           ~~~                                             -        S168*U  ~~~~~.  p.-.I,%1* ....
i           ~ ~1          11111.1^                                         !r                   wr;   rf             .          1;zamw    131'4 :      I  SG           1 
I...'b         .         na..  ..*        *.......   ..e. ...... .. P. ...                                , :__.. :
; .                                               81.1.31 ..... ...i                       I           3   *  D                      1.......



- As -
A13   I
mat                                                            Table 2
%toa is t laboo
Suit     SlIP   UStUSS   Still  hea 1 bet SC aWlS  PS                                Mill It/Il f et"
e.es._eu~   once  .-.. ee_n. _ .......en_e. _--._n ......... u.c-.c.  u. flut cnn.... nun tutu... n-  _un. -uu
1. Itl                                                          m      am uI
a. ant as
slit llISATI  ise                 as          to    so    15        -            -       Sa       L3  64.1 C I                    it?
Plin a                                        IL    25      T       -                        I L S  a  LI   IL l      _   _        4L
sa-w ci_te s uStEe U    l    maes                                                                    a', m            --- a--
a. 11. ugngac
staus                             m                   -      -    as      -              as t      .r          -us       -        m
SIC-ltea Mpulmn ams                                                                                 iL               ll              ILI
10-Teal ova as                                                                                         24.1  LI   I  Ll -R -L nV
tLeatCMg aM MOTU"a
11 Tuti                                          3      -     -      -      -          -   I     I .4    -    -    -t-    -   Nl
Tom TIUM                                         3                           2-.    L4L                                            2Li
fTl  s -                                                                     -             to LI      .1              - LI    1 tLl _  a
it. ClSFS
*. SU4S  TFFS
;atR;n-                       Sravuv,         I      I      I     I1     I      I        I.:   L         IL:.1 S11.l LI9  LI   Il-2
oVLlS                       staff11        21     Ce            a      S      S      SI  LI   LI  its3,  L   I. 2L  SL I.ST..
Ia-ta      nsuaiss              r ns SI.sO   O                                                                             U3L 1aSnL
2. SlTIFF MFIt6EVT5k              ull            -                                                  ILI  LI  LI  LI 'Li  LI    LI
ai maIcmI   iJ                  StIFI S1                     ,                                      1-  -  LI  LI LI  LI  L          L_ I
seO-Tafte mutter staiF lb                                                                             EIIL   SIB SI  SIGL aSOaL-I
IL  SUE      _L a   U(      Sill
MPsmm an                                        1a    a.    a       U      Se  LI  IL:   O  Su  ILS                            a    L
T TuiSK MMSto"                                  is   3N    a1    4                46    MU  LBI  411 Il   I  L   ILl  me1  as-
anis                             t              n lm  31  as 5      5      5      5      So  S.1  sILIC M      L     e 123 a. tI      s
Ponmt                                    a             a     as   in          a  i       a      4 a IL     2 i LI iLl  I ILl 4L.   15.1
set, L     tsI                                                                                        ILE  15    Ll    S Il 1.1L  11.2
C. Utii
S"tLIi/                              C                         - -      -      -       -            LI  LIS  LI  -L   LS   LI    L
50-YeaS intitlas          "     ou     L9       OW 2.    LN LM 1.U SLB                        LI  I L I    IL           I    L
mmi  ISI  II1 11                            I    La   am   LWS  ItS   6.1              m-S  *I     SL            L LI 6SIS . M    5A5   ISOL
1SUP                               5           - C- A-                            -      -        L    LI  LI:   4.1 -;LI;W   -L-I   SIW
isa                      ~~           ~~ ~~~so  m a I  IN   L Sf  U.31  U.    CL          LI  LItILI  LI  LI iLI    .
PsTia l                                              I      I -  -   -   -  -  -   -          LI   L I  LS  tO           2.0 tO   il
IC-Vet   MIu  PlICItonISb                                                                        ILla IL? SI   I   IL?It  Ill-I.
s2. ioclls PKaM   /3LO
L    TE  5                       lSlUl         IS     S LIIL'             .1     .m    65       0 L   3LI 4L  I  I  IM  94,I  3ILl
_151                             5 e                        I      I     I      I_      U t  .   n a  I   La L. ILI  LI        a  LI
Lltmuuinvama           ter~~~imn     i4            TO I    I    II                  &I  ILB   LO           IL LI 25 S - 3.3
$Nb-UTQU-                                                     -      -             -              -o- ;,C tz    -w.4     W; .  i -- MtL
SO4etaI ills POSe  .,                                                                               LI  SO Il  LI ILl  LI   51
Dl_a10                                                                                                          ft3s s " "             ." -s ...w s  z 
Su-teat itltitS i i;iiii
/CtUs           *lfs                    1             15    U       S      S                        L                                   aol-I
hniiutr   Clbl                       urns          u      to      o      a                   S   LIe" 11l  1.0  LI_ b-   LI    -   2
Id Fr  tw% at 2a   lw
IO t sal                                                                                                    Ll         I1
les I1SD mWIll                                                                                         lItSaiLlVWmUl1SfrsI315IULI. n   It    ti Pl % n    oo ol.St 
aPinsk m   ~1.0                                                    SW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cn..e   .e  .c.ess ne  ..e
X_--.   dI  - -.--
Pa Ctaar'tuuemt.ums'tu  ta4" ece I%  11145l S.1ablet.u sootarl
Sb  Pt    u  Pifeet.? a t         eess wdlt.f     te
A  3tatala
2e=  l/o Im ISt...



ram am-  w 0n
Itl SW Slit 3W *1t  -   -    n.I..I" I110   1                                            -    -                                                                                                               -11
._ ... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ....   ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....   ....   ........ ........ ..................... ......
-ola                                                  IW I  i s -   -    glu  su sun am am    -   -    me  soa  ue     ma   ow    NM  -   am                                            1 -                m  m          s _ 
--       --lame~~~~------------------------       f    -----------------------------
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _. u_n
jaa"lnei _aimu  mmo1   lot  ggo
91c  aq m trem
- 98 _



- 47 -
ANNEX I
-                                                                                  Table  4
$woo on 91 
rb. ml. n   IEo   CKLCtI    Sauto
lint led Eat tal
Omantity                                             mam balm
r ,,........., ,................................. -'l   ........................
Unt l         &?A   WU  MM  9uii S1/Il Total * r   USTI   S/TJ MW  3SM     MI ImI Total
..............    ........................  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .......   .......  ..... ....... ....... ..... ..... ..... .......
1. IIIOTvim   cots
.uit  urns
L units
UNil Lap  _AN  IlilSilto A                 a        141   ISO    U       -     -                 2..   27I.4   321. 5    LtS     _     _I
SbELT    *  _       KOS                    as         IF     -     -     *    -    -         1  1S    9.t                                          t -  o -  - 
diS-Toa  EUNKUt                                                                                                          21          ---- -- i-------
2.     lmTO a  MD  Smns                                  if I                           -      It  ta      to         -       -     -     -     -       o
1   amEn                                     1          iT                             - f1    . 2    25             -       -     -     -     -    to
i1am a rS     sums US 110                                                                      it 11;    T  nTte T   -  1- n-             -     -   21
mnms maas                       l             35S      I m    in    11      -     -    -    *s   -  z.t    n.m              to0    -      -    -   - -o 
WI mists mmoKOs                                          If -                                  IT to2  to.    -   -  ---t
CMIu TS                                      S Fn         u           5     -     -    -      m       o    t.                                         T. .  -  -  tI 
SO-it1l EGIEET                                                                                               j;.2    44.1    213       --               24.9
C. mime
2 a PIcaS     S                               -          2      6     4     -    -    2        14   1   34.1   162.2    M.           t I     4.1I  222  4
MUNU      311ES  gd                                           oI 7    I2  T      13    7       14   2.1   14.4    2.51   *4.4  14i4  IL   14.4   IIIJ
SICns                         .               U        229   40    M        -     -    -    an   t.    27.3   t IN. i   u.          -           - - m.
1ELACENI PUSEISES  /o                         M          -   2    M7   an   In   an   3.240   II1                 22.2    U.S  IS.?   I    51.1   34.1
S-Total vElisaE                                                                                              ti;;   2i1T1    221.? "G. t Ilts  234.2 1.031.2
Total IUVsTI eNiS                                                                                              5*2.2;  e         .e ;site _14.W1i13      2.292 2
II. meuan   cas
0. 33511S15t 5155
IL aMuTmlSaF
-_ - __ ------
.. :UARIfS
;;                                     STFTf        17   20    21    2T   21   2T    1US   1.    4.1    29.4    2X 4              KS 2* 4 324.3   1li.?
ewlVES                                 STF TIM       2     a    .2   12   12   12         so   L       t 1     LS.1    12.?  12.7 t II     ? nt !. 
-71somn                                swi          To   u    us   gas  loS   log        31   4?    SL6    73.5    13.0   13  17.3  itm1   443.1
Pahlaifh                               si fr       IS   ass   ats  3lu nr         S      InU    to -.0   itt 7-o.. -o -m.. -sm. aU.?
SOl-Totel nUL ES                                                                                        Il;LS   2til   214.0 2.23 T.0 284.6 L.a;.1
2. STAFF MM36  O FlT2 If                  STF' Mf-                                                        LS    IL.:    142  14.214.2  14.2    1.
PlaeS r,.                                  item        55   144   216  31f  213   tm    LU.   0.5   IaT          14.0  112.4 1.4 It.4 1 14   14 3L.2
ummocsl ieoi                              ies ur       g    260  cBS   in    an i    2.32    41 .lit             I.       atm  SO.S  14.5  3.   a252.
mifOnSPU  FK.    1.5w  I j                  Pe--              -     -      -to    it- i-t ----------                            --- 3-.5   n ---
ElItS  fl inS  it                           fill2                                                         2. _  _4.8      4.2     8 M  2.5   2.4    3.3
Ulf_Sms.olnu  PISTSeiCS nI                  Pil-l-                    --   -     -    -        -            -        -       - 5---  ----  etaS  I-.2
SisTo E                                       e         i     -l          - I    -    -      32   4.1    to -J                -  to      -     -
SO-1Ttal VmiLE on oTis           S                                                                          I1O    124.    I2 13.8 142.0 leO     3.0
4.  .IOiS   M
*Iurnam                                      a-                                                           to      its -t -. -.- -----              124.3
fuE                                                     -     -      -     -     -    -        ---o.m -            .-     to   o.m   to -.-   -       .-
351  315 fEiUT                               £-2.3                                                                2.3      2.0   2.6   2.5   2.3    1.5 a
0-1.al.1 msfIuEiUh     a                                                                                    11.3    2.2    J.21.3    s  21.5  21.3   14. 9
Teal USA?  witS                                                                                                55. 5C *.  214.5    C i3      Ut?U  tit
To '                                                      .StTal                                                g      1.254.? T I;Z;  T.   I . 1.3 1 7 75Ml   .     ...a
l acss C    mE  l NOME   UAS SMll  a  FlM  iTnuIW  lt
Jb  IttEtJS TOTAL TC ST FF
Jc  wu    mu  s waiT
Ad  SlUC   EVER   TE2it
J,   St OlVCENtEWT a atIoiIIMIT
It   T M  OF SUA*IEf
Ji  Ear  sun *110S  SI  ISU FTT                               IU
CmElt PIeWSP I_mong
ItE      arn  mTmCc. as  isoumiti.
/IJ  mO   PUR 3I  3  15M   m       IPLOE ACEMSNT
i    2  fU   3 Pitt IL   I IA  L  WLffI53T
h fU           (VUii 3 705T
In  at 2 n't coot bidso 101 cup cnt otto  mtcop.-wm
fto.-b 20. 1356 It 14



- 48-
ANNEX I
Table  5
1. IWMIK   owl~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~talI 16 tt
-" * as
a. CIVIL                                        .       .    _.     .    .    .    . 
t. s"wumin f lI                                                                                                                          L
5TILIIYNKI                        U          -                I- -         -               _         1i -t i   -   .    .    -    3tI         -  9-.     -    -       -     -I6.L
Siam  U      -     I    I            -    -    5           ti     -ti.0tL5          -    ~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~-  - -Wi   ---- -3.1  ----  --- ------ -as-
fsss                                                                                                                                                 ls.a   eg3-          -  tsm  a:.
IUIU s                                1          -           - m o n. as   . -                         -     -        n--   s- -     as    s-  -a        -     -   -- a--
sl  tstumn  mtS                                                                                      a.4  n  t  as        -     - is   s2t1s   as   e.t  at     -           -  Ms 1rn.m
*@_. s_*....... . ... ._........                   .
It. sintK     _Ii
L assIna stai
1. 5U515
Otis                       STltM                                 I _  t    I  t    t    4  LS  -    -  6L .3        L L  I       23a       -    -  4.1  4.*   4.1  4a    IL
51n s                       tRV M              I    I                                1.2    t iLl   Li   LitS             LI  S   3   1       2.    t iLI   2.   t2 t.2 1i.1
stmsmainm                  swum.                           t                8        iS7   LI  *I .1 i          T iT?    &i    11.5   I.   1.9  I.   LI    I.    LS  6L6
sote                       of M             3       5      1    S     1    a         LI   64.1 a     a .2   6. 36.2 4.3 a          .    s4   ..   tr    t. 34   Ls  t 1
c5PhThpuI                  ofl Ml        I I 1    t           I    I    I 5            1L   L LI  LI   LI   L          I  LtiL  12.?    LI2  1.2   Li   LI2   L2   LI2  i.t
coM                        or M          I  I  T  I I  I    *                        1.  s  ststsst s ts   a.  3                          m am    4 43   s C  4a : 1 2
afl-Tag  5655                                                                                 its   itt                     31t it.,  It    L, iats    its 13.2 s-2    -1a-.   i.5 a t
t  Stif VIM  UgSlrTts i                                                                        1. -1L L     LU   LU   L5   L5:       LI          6.5     I  6. I    .   6.5 0   4 tO
t  mttpm.iA                                                    -Lt  I 1   I .   tO   tt   La                                           tI    .    . I   LI.    LI   LI   t3
M-iTosa  mIlmutu pFa;                                                                            am OaL  asa   ste a3    tam  IC 16 1.1 as as a   n  ets
L no"MC ==IS OE
rr2ta1   i_umti                 51          I     I    I    -    -    -    3          331.4 n3.4 n.34 ni.4- MC.   11 S0 132.6 tOLD    -                                -    - 256
f- teal zIIC         6i11                                                                       fit.  Ea134           -     -     -   62  133.0 132.0             -     -      - 3.0
c UNItS SUItS eImS
aut e Sanalo Mum                           so   so   M                       I IN is mtt  .stmL.IIIL            IIILtss mIa ILI      mL     LI   L3.36        LJI LI           . LIit
UTLWtiWTfat                    m            -   S      S    S    U    U    tIS          6.6           LI  LI  LI   EI  LIt Lt      4.           3.1  Lt   It   Li    It  aS.}
tmptm                         "ta  a        -              as           M               tM i.       t *    ^ -aessneasam I          tt: 1 I I      2 -   t . 14.   16 S1  14. S  IL 0
fl-blat   Witti WOATIS urS                                                                      -;l  as   13 uIL -Ll SIt    INA    6.5  21.51 aa.8s  its  2Rs  26.6 tata
Totals MUUU   WTS                                                                                   i      tiSELI  1S.I  0.5     W.5 1.L   111  644.4 Ti t   .i.s  eta  et a 1.   !t '
a.                                                                                                           t     .1 _      ItS . ! tI .'1   22.  133. .StS  4.6 4. ;.3   .1 14. S3
-======_  _  ___  _    __  __  __      _~~~~~ ~___        ___  ___  _               _  ~~~  _   __.       _.........  ... ..... ...... ..... .... ..... .... .......... ....
is  b m rowwtlus S  fa arisilktgeoe   a  ralsW _i    t s elall _mi f   alsieao teal F  Ia - we *rldl.I ts b   linsieal sAE* t. as  oeslqg sIce all add1l owsns in aja  cilati
a5 se us -0 _ _
is  inlteuml U ta vplsase mamleettr 6& war I
*d   mtle  "m bl. For o*v                 m It I a s      et           wAt
/s  1w rei     masl lt
It   Ia imePtI    I Is meL  6 sent 1101ls1 ale. Isea   assI$st. Iis rPM able
. for trawl hg mstff-SINf  a  I'?- ut  S M*"n
-aSs. si. t_s  it C1



-49 -
ANKUI
SALo ~ ENM                                                                                Table   6
Table M0.  *361E35  PLA65I0  lUll
betellSd Eat Table
Nova Isego
oms.tlty                                        hi.s  ast.                                ha" Cats I. S
tult   N5/T WI"1 33/6  SF889 KA/I 111/02 Total Caee  58/?51/5WA  6/316486 O     35/I101/f2 Total   U/ST 81/nas654  a5/5  s3/I 142 Tome 
I. INVEiIUN  costs
a. czvu.ams i--.-
A   00155ATEE                   "9               -                             2 2ItS   2N.6 I                      -7 iT      53.7  15.5      -                     5.5  31.5
A a PZIJP                        dg               -                             2 24.5  24.5       -     --24.3   45.5  13.5                    -          -     -    .5  2.5
SC-Total VUENCLES                                                                            51.6                       -52.5   945.23  25.2                           25. 2  SIL 5
C. PISATfIN  EWIWETS     b  ET               L--                 --- .  3.Z4   1.4   2.1  124   2.4  2iL2   3.2   1.2   Li3   Li3  1i   1.2  ItS 
L. MEutnay ESIXPUES                4f-        - -              - -               - -70. 3 ---   -   -   -        2 265.7 -- -   - -205. 1
LC E IECUIEL ISISTa5C             51mP-S5     IS   12                             24  .32   ML5.6   5.0                          fig. 3  15. 4  SILO                       -  115.7
F. 253313FELLUGSIPS                 40               I                                14.8    14.   4.   ItS4                     44.2   6. 2   5.2  A. 2                 -24.5
IL SISIES/IC                                                                                 52.9  3 2.1 52.1                     I5L.4  29. 0  2150 2s.0                  - 65
Totel *SCSOM C8E  COSTS                                                                        538.  1118  55.2 -- 2.4,  - 1.4' 5.0 . 5.69§ 322.133.-5 23L5.5 273 .. 1     0.7 £5.
I I. EECIASINT COSTS
L. 80IT151L STIFF
I. SStS5IS
go0                         SWIvSS       2     2    2    2       2    2    12  5.2  20.9  la U  10. 5  10.59  20.6  200    536   5S.59  S.   H 5.9 5.   5.39  5.5  25.2
SIC                       STF T0S       I     I     I    I      I     I    6   1.2    12   1.2   2.2   1.2   22   3.2    96.1    LI6  2.5   9.8  O1.    LA    LB  20.8a
to                       STF1T4S        I    I      I    I      I     I    6  2.?    2?1  2.?  3.7T  2.1t  39 12.? I        23.9    1 5   LI    . LI   L    . LI   LI   La5
STh                       STYISS        2     3        3     3     2       lBi  2.2    L4   5.4   La4  5.4   LI  6L4    28.2   3.5  1.5   S.5  J.5   2 .5   3 5  21l
TI                        Sir1165       2     3     2    3      3     2    tIs L  1 03 J     15.   3.3  5     18 3    25    22.9   3. 1  2.1   2.1  2.1  2.   2.1  22.?
SCb-Total MUSMICS                                                                        21562.6 20.3         C  us  aa.   25, I.F  15.5  14.5  14.5  m4.s8  14.8  14.5  14.86S 17
2. FRINGE 515E111S              K-Li   Li 13 L                                                                     .2 I                .7 0? 0? 0             0.1   027  4.4
2. SSISI8CEId                                              S-.2! S. 5.3   5.2 I                                   5.1   5.2    A 228     i@ 0i.o   to   to0   20   2 0  I??
Sma-Total sOottistL STIFF                                                                   21.3 2332   1. 3  12.2  32 2331.2   mfl.s  18.5  15.5  1.5  1B5.  11.5  15.35 110.9
5. VENICE COPESIlS COSTS
4   10 I SCAlES            1low RN       25    25   23   23   25    35   350  0.5   20.6   5. 20.5  20.3 .  25.  20.6  124.5   11.6  ILS5  mt.  IL 11. 6  I L.l11  05.4
4No FlaW                    "a0 RR       20   23   20   20   26   26 t  0. ao  I-J.0  93.0a  15.0  15.6a  15.3  15M0    211.31   5.2   5 .3 Li53   5.2   83.  50.0
Sdm-Total VEHICLE OPEtUtig. COSTS                                                           35.8t 25.6  35.6  25. 2LA 5.5A 35.81  214.81  5.5  15.3  25. 0  ILI  11.11 11.5 1I5.2
C. SEotEUUcL CtlIIPT  le           S-25.  35.1  25.?  MY. 33.  28L.1  232.4   IL5 21 5  21.35 21.5  21.3  21Ll 128.1
Total Nff5510  COaTS                                                                           107.5 a201.6 107.5a 167.5 101.6 107.8 S 4& 7  55.6  35.!  58.6s 559u.11 5.359.2inI
total                                                                                           705.5270.1 177.  :90.2 295. T02.3 2.5*'3 3 292.5' li    654  012Oi9-3-4 M553.'4
Ic  3t foImeSII peo.kIS for bmuildingo .mC. pras.6 to be Eiwtcad as cart of NEIFIwuln  slfme building. for FO
it boplcc saporm 2 stn yr
/c  tanImo.4u. d.Fo.atattom  proca,
/d  All p.Mmonne  lsI be trao~elh1mgIrn F'schivalterm  aid Ithu  rme.eIlmac   ciFoanca et M0 of salar
is  St 20n Capitol cost
Docar 20. IMS lIt 24



- 50-
ANNEXI
aLMI                                                                                          Table         7
t.at. M0. iUITUIS mW EVALUATIONUDlli
MSetIs ld  ten  inbie
tesaity                                          mSun Cat                                  Sn.s Cats Is £
I. IUIStMEKT CBIII
A. CIVIL UMSl
CLASS CIUSII                      No          I-t    40 40.0-44 05   212-22.2
CLASS rn-I Mutt                    a          I-I   3.                                          62-t?                                     I S-1.
LonCOS IRMIL MMI                  a          t-t   2.1    21-2. I    1 2-.
ota                           n.t "E           -     -    -     -    -     -100    I3  _2. 0-           -      -      -     -      .L   141-       --                        It
$Sac  totl MIt SOES /s                                                                         tInl-         -     --til  1  7.1-                       -    --               -i.?
ta&-tetslCIVIL 015                                                                                 til--1715.59 1 I? I-5
S. VIHICLS
4 14 St 1E*'EM                        a                                         1         2 215    21.1   -           -     -   .M  15S.1   111       -                     11. 31.0L
WYTORCICIES                          so          -            -     -     I     -    2  21          - 21        -        2I    -dl              - FIi       -        1.1       -2.2
la-letul vutlccis                                                   iii   It        -     -  2.1  21313.1    III   It           -     -   1.5  11.1  22.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'.'Ir, t   i.    'S'S1.115 5   3.
2- UIFtCI EUiIPIIIUI  ICE-1~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1-4.1    2.2-.
2. MSalOP EtliPmuT                   IC-1t14-10.4    1 a-1S
ab-letal OFFIC  FSITUEE 4X11 EBIPIIEMT                                                              It-15. I1 tOt-Itt
*, TECNuICAL ASSISTAKE                 STOWS       12-12   U I   21.1111.a5  15-54
lI.Si I6IISTIET CDIII311 2                                                                                            -     - 21111.1 lifSILs-. tt                                 n1114
It. DICUSUII EDITS
IL ID0hIlUSL STAFF
I SALUtES
PO                            SlYTS          II                                        2     1       i 1        S-1 A  .2   1.2  215 :   261 1. LI   tu    LI   2.1    I  It?I
TO                            SI'6                 1     I                  I     627         21 2.1 272?    2.?   27111                     IL     1.  1. LII           I     a'.U
Co                            liFTYS         I     i     t     I            I       II        I  1. t2    L     I A   12   L 1    7.6    @ 7   IL7   0.7 07  0.10.74.2
Lu1111                                       7        Its7                 71  426   t.    A61    LILt 8.    LI   A515111.4               .1  tI   044.      tS   t  4 . 21.?
MIllIE                 110131~~~~~SI:IR  I  I     I           I     tI        t tI  I.   it       I     t       t           4    06      .6    .0 0.6   LI   0.    LI
Ish-ITut SALARIES                                                                              tL9 1.2 19:I1 2  161I  11-2  11.2 111.1   13  I?         It? IL     I7. ItO?  tO.?  6,4.0
I. FAtME KSEuFIIS  /£t                                                                                 LI   LI   Ii        i 1        .     0.?   0.7   0?   0.?   .?   0.11  4.2
S UBSISTENCE /4                                                  -.                                   .      I 1        i.2   12     - t    .I   0.7   A.    17   0.    0.1   4
4  LUCL tmISiiTIuG  uSEICES         I-- 21 2  2t 2  21.7  21. 2  21.2iUL 0                                                                    -  it    tA.  ttl  It    1.1  A0
ICS.b  .'m AOIITIUI.  116SF                                                                       It.?7 42.1  42.6  42.1  £212  42.5 225.4   ITl  213.  221  22.8  219  2323 121. 2
S VE111151 OPERATING COSTS
414 10 S1*EV TE4                              2 25    2132-    21      1 25      tIM 50   5   20.6  205A  20 A 20.0  20.5 620.5 124.1    M    111.1   t    ItS.1  ItS   ItU   tI5 :  64H.4
STOSClCLE                        IMICR an            I    is   IS    1       is   UM      I          2.01  10   2.4   2.   21.0' -a                     L      .      It   LI   15
IsA-1.tI VEHICLE OPRAINGIM STS11                                                                  it20.  22.1  21   228"  22.5  22.8 124. 0 11.65  12. 7  12.?  MIT2 12 It     2IT?  7141 
C.MiMEMU/
mILOIEUS                                                         3..15  13    21   I A    2.5  311 it      to:   I.o   to:   to    to2   2.0  IL?7
FUMIITUIE/EOUIMUMIT                 6IS    LI    16I   1.5B  IS    LU  14'.                                                                 I      I     IM to     to     to    t    La
Ia6-IriS1 MIIUIEMISE  /.                                                                             2   Ii   53  12  S2 Li   1.1  32.1   3LI   LI4  tO a tO    1 0   LM   37.5
1.6.  SIIAIEIT COSTS                                                                                   411  it To   i  I It. IL I;  it. 140.1 3 25. a20.15  21.5  2.1  21.1  23.S 220.50
...                                                                           W       ;   ;,    ",;,           ;; ,W                  !%.   ..   .4-    !1    !,
Z"iitt. I Oan1 15
-Id  OnY f-. tP .sttg  iFiPI sad dpi..
t.  AT 21 C0 cost bld.. tOM F-r .nd net
.ca.6- 20. t9I1l i 14



itIi   -   AO i~sgI 
*jImfliWS A       -id A   w
POR 5-1gw .511 iga, 351PM owl   mniptifl et  A"Ifq   Af
sic t seas i-ca  asic SLOB  6 'lit 'L ftC  9P2C-itt Iinat 'I"'tao  'bOLl l"Ii  its.   li 1-339 411
14   ..t O ii 2   ii'o   31'l.. O  I'N   S"   -91- I    G% ILL  Ii 'W  L... CU'  lOi  601i                                                                                              S333U     I2     3351  L05P
ta   Lt.    Li   LI    I    L I    eliA    ILS     Si   LL S6    t   IL    Li                         -        -        -       -      -      -     -          51USIAhl
ira  .. . ..       ...    .. i. . . . .   . .  .L ..  --- --  ---i   ----  ----  ----    I---    Li------                                                -
L II    9I 9I              Ii ce Li It   I  Ii    -  l  III  01      0-l   05 C C    IL'    a       it    Oh       Ut       SL       St    5             -        13
iL li       O       I 5 ft1    5    £'S 1    SW 1  Li    a  Ist   rnoi  miL0tt SACISs 9  "C £51a-i    asn   11ig3*   311i1*m6 1 2 5*                                                                              11-S
Au       II-    it--   ----   Li--   ----   ----   ----    -----   ----   -- 1-    it--   -- t- ----   -------                                                                                  /n
IiiIt C I  i    SI   it 9           ii,     is    10 as     1   01-6   al fit I'       L    £0     - a-a                    -        -ac    -      a     -         s a l             MI1IE U3iIi1S
l C 10l  9 lil   CBII           I ItVtieSC   a-il    cc CL  gig   it  60 I            V IL    a L. s      tt   I    I O'                         tWI Sr  EOeKe S      et13W alcVSa
rAlt        1 an    ass   iif  irnE   ItZI -     AcMts    Oisl   -LIE  901151       611-S '9      it    Ii        15       It       Ii    I             -           1L 01
rnr  s  Es     s       i i        -      ci       L      LI    L      IL   aI:c-0    Irs                            s       i      i
ito,@i     E ea    lit  il    ii6e   aD a-I  I-     W sat IGO  1.   al 01,           II     IlSa-iC ,    .          ma'    osi0ac                  l     -          at         *      flliitulnhl
C."      -                   -,    ic             IV         C          1  L         CC aI'ssOL                    -                        -     -      s            nm.                                    dsuu
asusmos 'I
S 51113 1MM1C11 i 1
I-c --- --- ---          i --- ----       eel-  s--a- ---- --- ----   --- ---           i ----   -   e-a---i                                       s     Ia       fa                             USmlii
iltnc      L   I& -'- isis      t  Csssse            Ins   -   -1   I  4,A   t-  I  awiir'   -i   Kmlv   -Es OV                      "      1 -4It    -  ,  rni                W am              msg   M  1613111 'a
C                                                                                                               113S                         tolml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uial  I 1A
SASS tO lS*i-
1-D10*  tif     SSl        L 13     1   Aaje  onsrniuUSn aria  ase   dt   sNe mu CKI   Ie  ia/g   Ai - .03  als)  tiB        cton  ens  ull15/l411li              355
-iw i-.     .     . . . . . . . ..    . .    . .  .. . .     . .    . . . . . . . ..    . .    . .
5 51 55503                        Cfl                        *ss   s5a        0 c              -    LI$1 8
I 'go  9 et p 19  9 of  ift  9to  I tt          9 ce  I    Ise'L   el                  C mC35UmW9 
'slot s'n  Psi'm'e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1111311
£16303 NW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ I03liun i'
-le   IM3  -eile



-52-
ANNEX I
nrnaot                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~Table 
lable N02. Mt11 EEIICIENI STOVE PUISISM
Igstle lad ba  table
Orsittoy                                       lsea Caist                               Sas rats.. I
it.    NWS 01?38 Ulu KNAM MII1IM33  lInto  Coat  "Ol? SPIN  am13  US" gol 1113  let. IButsy SVIl  5813  Kil"A geltmi  .totu
I. 3504T1-s COSTS
IL CIVIL ff5m
CLSSSCUUS& ITW                         no         I                                   I   44  400                               -31.0   222                    - - - -        "22
CLI*SSt EIIT*l                         no         I     -     -     -     - I-11.8   11.1-ill0  ILI- .                                                         .               LS
EOLUISSII LU IACELIIIES                so         I-I  10.4  10.4-                                                                 INS    5.0-LI5
Seb-Total CIVIL IShl                                                                               02.1-33.1  24 5-24.5
tCSIVUTa                                   Vol-10.4321   2.1   2 12 1   21I20? I                                                              35i 2    1.2 12   1 2  12  u1.S
C. UNiCtEt
iSPEdaP         S          i-Its~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 15.-s                                                  8.4-to
Sl6--totl VEHICLES                                                                                 5t,019-t
IISNITNS                               MlIT       -    4    4    4    4         -    150 4         -[      1 7  11  1?          -  II        -  SI   03   5 1   03         -  3.?
MTE711                                 MaTt             I    I    I       I    -      011.2         1-l1.1?i317.2t?7.3          -3.1           9- 8.53a8. 356              -s54
SO6-ylad  tuB  nOr. FM    ises                                                                        - io.o  me  te   It          - n 7.m      -   IN  lOg  tot is  s        -   ..
L CTlasIN A IlOmiCIL LSSItSTCL:
uSNULAISTS                        StlM                                                2& 1  S -- -   I iI-8.    10.2-It12S
SCtota TIlIhSSVARtMES04.6-415"  5. 25-25I.S
S.-alINEIUTSTES                    ItOil2             2                            i         21 t    ta   so      -           -411.    15  125   25               -        le
SC-otal MSt    a  tinants.3.   Is.  Itt  21                                                                      0               ios.    1.51  ii     .s s    ae         -   t
Totl  aSEtSU  CVt                                                                               2u.1 t.43525iS                   127,1   OIl 132f-    IS15 i  ios.a
S.  INTHEU   SOTaIr I
IEOICsIIsSIIt                         To                                                      21  I I I 5    I   21.42 12   II i  . 10   0.?   s   I    0.?  0.11    0?   41 0.? 0.2
LaIn..     11115        2    2    2    2       2     2    1700    St   0?~~~~~~~~;.   0?.  .........   ..  ..?..?.t?.41...400 .4.4040. 02......
SC-total UITATU5L StFIRMA                                                                         4?I.   2  g?o4I?   4     47   4728.0   25.05          LI .   t6   2.1   2.  IS
T.[INVIESREIt                             Vol-0.5   0.1 1.     .0.31   012-                                                        17 05   2102    0 J.2  07.31 02   0.2   0 2 20. 8
It.  ItUSF  CO1STS3
T[aaSIaSnfShacT .                     s-F-TItI  10.5I                          I    a2I-I3I.61- 1.3   13313 13 76 0    -                                              2.1  0.-  itS
to AlMDIERS Cuts                                                                                  24.o141 223   0.524. 12 1        10     7           I .    111    a3.  13.  011  120  12a.6  101  374
toal                                                                                                2311  lOS LSTAFI4   Itt .   47 4    2 IiiIt221251.    111   5 1. i 2. i I- it    11.61. 5,
..VIL  PIIN   SSv                                                          141    1.    14   IA1    6                       .    .AG4 94643.
C. siAlIN. onsitai  tSsla  -prdm£Ia
kia.is. IlIa I                                                                                                        A IlS.    . It                1SA3              020            



- 53-
ANN3EX   I
Table 10
Table JOt. PlijO  CommCI Poainml
$m., lwd Cmet  al.b
NOR I                                                             i-
S. isomenr carss
fast1 a                                                   22. iS 24-24. -
2a IoCTCE                                                 2-                                       2.y  342-634                                        34-L
motumsc                                      M            32-32   II   35-6L    30-4-0
RIa                                        3(1            12-? 0                                            3-1                                        0-C
~UitiTUdtt5tflCIti5t     ~       IU            2    0             -    -      -A3   ItS   I'llI,         -    -            -        Ila22I  3230                                'O    - -8.1
SWa-Lot        11021855 MDm                                             -     -     -                2-        -UI  I-                        -  Ott16     -  43                         -I.
L -tMItel TANDjUI    IC Le  ASSUICSTANCE sE21i03                                                                                                  2511  lt                                    2
mel IEWOSIIUE? AStS                                                      *        122.5 203.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  --- --- --- --- 522.8  In.-- 13-2-----21.
TI            sets            2'.s       -    -    -       -    4.3   ml   jets~~~~~~--I.... ... ...  ....  ..... -    - 2--1 ----- --- --- --- ----
loc NSa-Ism  51STS1                                                                                           ow3  am -M.2                               1.3  la                          -
PuActurn         I                       wf             I0 looesI                                  .5      .  1-8 a                                L1is-4.3
MTSCCL                                 10005ff                                                5I-- 2  03  it-2?"  2.-  II1~
7330ow abuS    IES                        Arn         i.@1S000                                            23 521.                                         20.8-2.1
2.181                                   100035W         80 F TS-o-n00                                 0.1    00-ia T                                   8-53 0- 
C. N MITE TttI    tmm                         M-Ia                                                                                                      I0 iS
sac CANELON910TH                                         3                 3-S                           OS  .2a.                                     Li-124 
"-eta mis                                 005t5           24-24                                            Ise 342-2ij  i .g.2L3U
L   ELMtS                                 bios            32-ti   05OP1-52    2.0-ST0
TN= UW LSE                                  TO          ."                                    .O  AS3     0a31 
mmtemtanflmstw                   .-owAM-55 0                                                       1   0.            -     -       - 00    0.3   2.. -                -     - 32
wUiOt.UStimoisyS   I-*                                                          is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .... ...............--- ------* t    m   -- ..  ...    -..   .......
SA-Tocal ftTCNIALS                                                                ~~~~~~~4.02 .                         .20.    u3    21-         -      -     -m.3
otlmELPhrS  M3513                                                                                         3502I S                        -     -lG       82.5 .1                         3-1.1
t   1o1C  LO1=/N0233G RIP-                                                                                                         - I 0       - 0312  25.2 32.                               0.2
A  tc "sIegenewel tnt  weS is plet 32 IIesp.ik'in- he. lets cast ban.. .....fe.....3..t... ...t..-.t.tal.....   ....3. ..i... .o....e....tng..n..3.....ue.Fr.e
beAr itf tamS it  ii                                                                                                                                       I.                                  1



- 54-
ANMEX   I
351401[X11                                                                                Table    I11
Table 401. 31113400
Detai led Cowl labIa
Quas lIp                                                lago  ost,                                  be. Coot. I. S
L   WViCT3BT    il
fontrrct"'3-                                                                         I       41      4.75-                                  41.11  214                                      214
SIESICTCLEI                          no         2I                  3                 I          21    1.2                IL-12   -            2. 4    3.I    -          3.4     -      -
ItttlVIWICLEI                                                                                       SI       -           .2        £4.1   121.1   451       -          2.4        Ito1   11.1
E 104P30(3 MD3 ISCILItIES
1I1E10 StOSACF FACILIYT¶9            me          I            -                       3        4 241                     24 1-4                      12.1-13.?
I" 33TI"'GOWES                    no            I--                -           -            32       .2-         -      -      -       - 1        4.5    -        -         -4.5a
I3ILTTIC4ISAL4CEtI                No          2                                    J          SI   lo-2         S .1 -I                    Is.    S.           14       --                 1
SSChItlK?(3TE                     ng                                                        IF . I  II   IS        -     -           -    III        -. 1 I                                 .
'UOU433ILICiAtLWLATOU             go          2     II                             S         3.1    4.2231         -3 123                 s114    2. 4   LI1     -   L.I   L I      -
titS3'ED GLEStSNAR   Ia          VAN4--I   I0   LI   1 0   30   33    t023    23   4.4   15   05a   4.56   16                                                                             S.1
F3ItST fUIMtUT   ft              yAMt         -                                                     2    2 31  23 21 3t 2.1   I           241T   5.3 I    -I II   I         I31 LI   Li    12.1
S,6-I.t..t E(44P3081                                                                                  3231  24?7   42   12   1 2   43    03 5   21?  3 1.1   5 .1   4.0   4.0  123    SO.4
FOUntl  4PP0ENV AND FACtILITIE                                                                      U25  241 S 12 1 2   1 2   4.1   3312t          25.4S it? 1. S. 1   4.0   0.0  12.    645I
CMM IN53G fc                            no                                                                                                              -         --                          -
0.TECRI &IC  tsist3SfCE Id              301         2     2      2                        I      223 4  342 I442a4 442a                         3221    24102414,244.0                         134.4
TI  maci                               Val--                         --                     -52. I 52 3  7 Il                                   3534   24.  21.4  20.0                          SI 
I AC1,T1O3AI $1311
PO I.                         419 "IS        -     -     -    2       2           5        5         -                453.   3.           3.                        53 54    . 
TI/I                  511112~~~~~I O  2    2     2     2I   2'            2        2I.            .      2 5         2 52         15      1      .     .            o    t        t
It                    411112         2     3     2      2     2     2    15 2         I    23      5   2      2    13   2.         2       .3 23 21I.-.    21                    1.
To18                          51  35         2     22f                           15.        2I    2.2   2.2     .2   2.    2.     S.       1       B L        1       B 31 1
fit-oi SAlAMIS                                                                                     12.   ItS   12    22I2 23 15                     3 14 1            2?It1. 
2  $31  1351 F   EIT  /         ST$In                                          'I 135-1                   05   05.  I- I   3. I      - LI   52     02 42 02 1                 1 43
ISt61WSiTITt3Cl  103C   t         l  1515   15                                                                      B    I            .      13      L       4    1      .     5    25      I.
isA-Total 3001110041 11311                                                    15~~~~~. 4   5.4  354     215  21    25.3   12206    65 A 5 I 15   15.3  15.3  35 12. 2 S
S  1STArr1                         100  St       24B4E2E24               24T3S14                4      21     0       621I3I2I5 23.5  itS2L   121    20 12.  .32.03. 50 1.5  32.             12.19
1 lOEtTENE? LLU2         /      ST0K V.2                   1    2      2      5 tC            3     24.2  22.5  3242236  22.5  22.3     13.    IL 2 13.4  113  35.5  It S  33.4   105.2
2O'PICSITIP                        100510    4               3     1            50 24'0S24  232  2124 8                        II  2121222   11132 a 133 &S            112  31231.2    i2s31.  3.12
VCsIOPCIL                          104033 m      20    24    20    24    20    20   539         0.1    21   27 21 62      2)1-   2.?   2.1   1225   12.0  2-. 012.012.012.3   2.0    32.5I
Se-otal VIIItCI                   lowKW         s Ii25 COStS                        td             442-3  43.3  433 I33 8  35.5  53.3I  2IN.4II23  IL.2  212  25.20  212.  23.2   1310.
(@010 MCt 3                            %810                 6     3      0     s %0            4 (5  .3.    14 7    .7 7.2 1   5?7  31 2    415    212   2.3   &1  4.5   4.5   5.1   124.
MISCTflVITdtCUE                      451.LIST                                                         4       2.    2.A    1    21   U  23   II  153a         LI .LI   Li 2 t?,   3.?2  37.   XI& 
SE-lolalEITUT1M3UCF.   154  50.1 31L2 S I12    42.49      23   521   5.5.5 2   15   S 15    24? 
OISCEIAFIU                         VIE...                                                               1   051  0.1   15   I5   3.          2 a 9   11 12  .7   027   0.2I   12   12 7     lI.
Pt40hIbOinTtIIAtt  A  WAS          .            -           .               154~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    1.3..  ...  ...  ... ...  ....2   ----  ----  ---   ---  ---   --- ------
01I3C1iS4                          VARAS15.                                                            -   2   S. T   2   - 2.    2.15  2.1        11    S. 3   Li   LI03    3?   LI   I?,     14.4
IPiICOvtbtAUT II   A              wa-IS5   Is.   03    I                                                                      LI    .1    5.2   L1I2   I3  12   ts   e.               -    tg
204 ToI.3 01111.11E Sv                                                                                    393  3 3.4   45.  4. 1   4.5 I 5IL2    lE   1LO   2.4   16   2.4   2.3    22it2
lt'U  CT OlIOl  E COils  305?1                                                                              a     3. 323.5I 33.  32.  324I         3     .30  0.15.   514  io 5  .4I  n.s   4214
S,tt. t          NFLS155. 1 34. 523   3444  1 41 A74.22103    41.2 II*152012.40  *. e  n.e  its    DL
/.  'NM oa 241  -.IISy
/t  toofl Igt it 9--wA.  wet. ca:erl. "o lite as~Itio 
ccoa.utas  '. uId 3.I- In-"c
Jo/4      .     s    aNT' .U Il. ot.rs/vmat           1 calw   aPE. 2 yo.a.
LU  ImK staff ..Ill  . IS- F-  olin, ra         etS  a- t1sl
/3,  t 29 61 elro   fOr IvalIlq ilaff
itN...y f-r clot o.oltwia.st
/J at       capital  ~m
/k5  Io.di-v.g  Ilitt  3I4b.1  trvInr.   01   St   540N/ht Oleod. 203w/yr
/I  Lt '-1    .
Omrto-, 20 1-85 'A  9



- 55 -
ANNEX_ I
4'--si                                                                            Tzble   12
table 402. amIulso
Ususlod  ra  lobEs
momma'40
.-tity                                             so". Ca to                                       Cts .- S
v   1*U7  lEs eR l~ el-| Vaklm in  Zenl n                                                                                    - a §rT nnw otq:t
-.--..-. ----..-..----- -- -                      U..... ...................................  ..................................    .... ..............................    . . .............................. . .....................
tnlt    0/7   /   US  MAO 0011  01/32 fitst  C.'  55?820  08/09./o H/li 1/   1..1                          0/2   7/8£8S  ijg   5119:V
1. DLE 11531 WITS
IL ML t CaLLIte OF rOWTn
Pl IItMIN     FtLIFt                          VAR                                         -                12 0           -      -     - l                5 5  4  2                             0 
:IITISM  F8CILITIESIPO MGMI  lIlt                B                                               -         21.7  a24       -     -213    112  24                                                 S - 
IIEI ACILITIES FM FIUOULPO IUIMtIs             van -e                                                       -1  --t1              -           - 2 Il 0 2  14  t4d1    5  5 <4                  1440 
Se-lt.t lULI  LLES OF Fe ST                                                                                   21i 4407n *5 Sm7       -     -         -       1O  I m     22s S   n10  - A          482a
L WAKES Ae
-_ --------
3 MN mSE         FM0Fs                          so        Be    I       -     -      -     -         i   *2    12120       - a          -          75     I a 7 1         -                      4 2
2R twUKI'm                                     Un         20    20    20      -      -     -    0           0    0.102            -                 22    0-   0 A44                              I 
3 Bf     SMt FM                                 - I       IN    I00   too    s       -         400     4      I    I     ii    i        -     -    *4       0 e   a e       e 00   6             24 
Se-Total  hOsS /b re                                                                                                 id I iT *                        220 a        I1a   II a   a O                 17* 
C. SIMS? ISIS                                     VII-                                                                      1 ii   t SI 31 1 3J -   iSI               S             5 210  0 2'     '%4
S.  _ 5P                                          Ir hS-                         -- -25.1s                              -I2n *       - m25       -   IllS    10           700 w     -  ll         2094s
C.  g1m8 STi"l
P0                             SlITS          I     i     i      I     i     i     012~~va   120.s      2030302 02                   lii      2129         129        2S        i?
P1O                                       SIF TVS        I     I     I      I     I     I                 22 3.        32 S 22         2        SII         0              ' *7     -      1718
IT.7                                      5Ir * S                                                               '      * Ja 37 2   J   7   7 2       7 S  9 I    so 4 is  is    la  R   Is   10 F 
S-lobatl 9URIESU                                                                                            a 0505    a 0               5  a                4 4        4 4    474    4128 3
I2STEr nIVIWS   BEF1TS                                                                                       0 -  -4 0  4I               4   eA4    2 50      02 02 0 2 0 2  0    :     02   1 I
Se-ootal *EC411C S1Ff                                                                                             0 0        1 9   A   F I   e 4   A S    53 4    4*    49   4    9   *      4 q 2 79 1
F. fIUIC l  SSISt1sic                            SIFES         a     -     a      -     a     -    24   a2    004       -  NI        -  SI4      -   I"93   31 9       -36 1           J             ll? I
11 blot     ilEs G75S                                                                                            34?;s 27s 42* 44260  Si 22120      s 80  ISI5 1  251 82386230 1  34 0eII 147    4 *   '261
_s  8o. _ _ _ .toorios.dt....... .... kit..,. e . bourn,. oqsip.t.. .  ..... .. !.. ..... .... .....                                              ... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ....
._ bee,  tsesdIle It
Ao  Pat iy isP rooD. mosl, w  i .gporos
ReceSs. 20. "IS It ii



- 56 -
ANNEX   I
Table  13
SU3,.,y 111tSet by P               _OSsec  t1 sM4
mmcm low
iEb&   sfuthAf  NIE S                                                                                     FKI
u             PILO               SIKt US          ufIfIUImm      lPl siSmt                                         PILE        fIFICIEI S_DE  rNiW S
atum  tmsmlm  tntusno nins    nFlnst                                    _wmm                        Inlit          a.ma    sen   ---------------
STS7        0TIlN          MT116 t     hIlt        3101?            PISIOA     S  wIagos          SCmI            i lOn n          In       muis    Tsummis
..........    ....  ..........  .......   ................................                                                          ...           ........
1. IUVI5     I Chast
________._____.
AL OVIL                                           1t1.           m .            as IL         -                    -         setos        a .s                                        I,s            -      M.Le
t  VIlIMS  M    IUIE                               I.ut:          as 1          st        14L3 Xlad                          45. F       ML?                   -        102.1         t'L        12L0 
c  WIUt  S  OFFICE UWUIIU                            124S           t1.?        I  I      S1.S                     -          It?                             -             -           .s       13t.           -
0. zunfmfs  n06 flU   5516S                              -            -            -          -                    -             -            -         t-         - -l.t-                -          -      -
Taeal IOI5ihI£CUT mis                                 taI    tn.                  2at.       die:         i.                    p 04 945    745L2          tIll)-          lol           115.4     244.        SeUL
II.  mIsr  innsm
L  SauIES  a   LNman                              u. at,        "LT          tie..       I ats               15".0          212.        us, I                -          as           2t.       te.0        l.t
L     nIusDL IS       IU 1 I S1 7M COS              vat         S1e.          M I        214.a               2a.s         a.owet?       nt a                           n.t sLas                AtL
C. UZMITUK  MO  111 OFICKIWIS                        M4.1        72.4            .  22.3  E                       -          Ml           tt a                             -Iite                P.4
e. 114ISLS                                           04              -            -          -                    -       14. 1         247.1                -          It4 6   a5   SIt                       -
. S LLE        u                                        -           -             -          -                    -      22. 1          2a m.                -         40                -     13
F.  _SPeL5         IIts no TolUit                       -        0.4              -      let:                lO-                            -                              -        134. s   -t dI        St S
t  IE ICAL   Ussimi                                     -            -         IL.       S.           1         2               -            -               -        430.              s    t. .3t.4       U  3
_ ... _ _ .---------     ----------   --------_----------------       -----------    ---------   -------------    ----------    ----------   --------_ --------
TeR: iE   m           s ttDT                                       tat 29L 2      a.S    L                     tD121          tue.        I tt.  I                -        Ut1          35.1I   2.SL           SIt)
loto     t 355111   COST                               S.5L1        2.34.0         iL     tS 1.433               '. 32L         S.S..1    2tiet              1.01.3          t.4         it.t7   % "IL        tE.    3
PkyslsI C1wtI--kw                                     i3t.s        SL             0.4       M. I                    -          52.5         Itt            aSt               -          *5.5       itS        5.
Pr6vo  *ominomim                                    2. ISL         Mt. I        2.15L t 2   432.3 ndeti                     225. .6     I On 109         tia              aLS      s   maI       veto        ets
TiRaI  QTCi COSTS                                      BOt.         ti3l S           Olt    2*41. 6.    t        t4.t1         tES3.        2.51t2      a       i           T at. 9        M.3     x.6   ,1.l S .20.t
....... ..........  .........  ..........  ......... .................... .................  ............. ..................  .............. ......... ....... ........... .......... ........................... ....
Fwliq. F                                            2007.2      1.  3.I          .Lt)    1.tON.6 tIl.?                      2.66.1    1.11  3                  -        £3210         344.0   LA2.? t       2M. 3
*bwri 55  NIl  It It



-57-                       ANNEX  2
Table I
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarterly           Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending       Disbursements        Disbursements
('000  US$)          ('000 US$)
1986/87          September 1986
December 1986              -
March 1987               930                  930
June 1987                930                1,860
1987/88          September 1987            930                2,790
December 1987            930                3,720
March 1988               788                4,508
June 1988                788                5,296
1988/89          September 1988            787                6,083
December 1988            787                6,870
March 1989               701                7,571
June 1989                701                8,272
1989/90          September 1989            701                8,973
December 1989            701                9,674
March 1990               612               10,286
June 1990                612               10,898
1990/91          September 1990            612               11,510
December 1990            612               12,122
March 1991               582               12,704
June 1991                582               13,286
1991/92          September 1991            582               13,868
December 1991            582               14,450
March 1992               554               15,004
June 1992                554               15,558
1992/93          September 1992            554               16,112
December 1992            554               16,666



- 58 -
AN= 2
Table 2
MAIM
SEODWO   WEN     PJECT
Corismn of Gost of EstabllBhlng (be Ectare of Tees
_________ 1_____    __ ___
SIall Farmr b/         Cost to Gov. of SMiI
Year          C*v. Plantats a/                 Woodlots                Farmer Woodlots
1                 688                          237.2                   122 C/
2                  134                          48                     112 /
3                  102                           5.6
4                   17                           -
5                   17
6                   17                           -
7                   20                           4.9
8                   25 
9                   17 
10                  17                            -
11                  17                            -
12                  17                            4.9
13                  20                            -
14                  25
15                  17                            -
16                   17
17                  17                            4.9
18                  17
19                  20
20                   25
21                   17
22                   17
23                   17
24                   17
25                   16
Present Discounted Value (at 1ZZ) of Costs of 1 HBctare:
Gov. Plantatiorxs                                       894.2
iall Farmer Woodlots                                   258.2
ost borm by Goverrment of  E1ll Farmer Woodlot          198.2e/
a/ Source: See 1 lectare models in Ryan's Woring Paper.
Base Costs as of January 1986.
b/ See Table 4 for total cDsts of woodlots.
-E  Seedlings subsidized at 4 tedeila each,     nortation, extension, mxxitorig. See Table 4.
I/ T        ,io, extensin, moxdtoring, Investment Bus @ 5 texila per tree for 2,000 trs.



AM=  2
Table 3
SbWe   tadatim for CG-meuimt Pla ltatIn (3,000 ha at Lilangm) f/
Costs ('000 SWa/           Benefits ('000   SoidA)e/
1                             541.9
2                             392.6
3                             447.6
4                             469.6
5                             487.9
6                             469.7
7 b/                          152.3                 22
85.4                36
9-12 d/                        52.5                 40
13                             52.5                 25
14                             52.5                 42
15-18                          52.5                 46
19                             52.5                 22
20                             52.5                 36
21-24                          52.5                 40
25                             52.5                 18
26                             52.5                 30
27-30                          52.5                 33
FDV (at 12Z) of Costs       Dscoted Yield
- 2194.1 g/              (at 12%) 143.3
Stu_ge Fee to CDver PepLiaoeat Cost - 2194.1
143.3
- 15.3/Solid m3
- 10.7/Stacksd m3
a/  Base costs a of Jia. 1986, inclding physical amtingies.
IbAzle 211d and 3rd Yr. nn1ntwamnr.
ClThrbie 3rdYr usntnoca
/  hmiL owieiead ants caltlaed in Ryan WP, idated to Jan. 1986 priem.
.1   See Ryn VP for yields in '000 olim  3.
fl  Ie TLIlal plmntatim   bs besmmed tDo ca]aiate the stzmW  rates, becase the MAl of 12 m3 solid/In is
c- sdered tyical. The yield from Miximje plantatio  is ummally "Lg3, aolng to especialy fgiourable
Lxiditim that ar unlikely tobe repeated else.bere.
.W   Dividing the PIV of Got by 3,000 gLim an apparent oet of 131 per in, uhich Is lower then thi  -ost per
lectare sbci ax the previoLs pop. TIn twD are not o:prable, howver. 7he 3,000 hwtws ame establisbal
owvr a period of 6 years; dividing by 3,000 1mA  gLue 1 bectare cots if the bct8re wie establhbed oYe a
perio  of 6 years rather tlm In year 1.



- 60 -
1 2
WOW  ubm      pbojem W.
1_mb      1      2     3     4-5     6      7     8-10     tl     12      13-1S     16     17     W12D      21
16
1utow                       50
la  yic                    SO     5D
2ad yw_                           so
hubctSyew                   12 
Pst   1    N.                                                 3                      3                        3
G*FA O4                                                                              4                        4
Sb Wtr   (N1Or)             126    59    8      -       -     7      -       -       7       -        -       7       -       -
omf aEl. I l.7fND     U.Z   35   5.6                    4.9                    4.9                     4.9
b. of  et
9=MflJW  IOD   25    5    125       -
a         ar                  2     1
mta- b   %W    1             2I       10
VWr                2     2
-uh tlll                     22    12
lTO    am(G               237.2   48   5.6      -      -    4.9      -       -      4.9     -        -       4.9
Banat d
-aled (Sd .-   -            -                   -      60     -              70      -      -        OD       -       -      SO
*/ A m      E r f ct  'l mt mdzu dinr1g ad  ry litl  oztivatm  - day my be abScdotwi fm or glazUw lad.
Pznectm IwzIu  fsEllW ad twofE conttOl by do*mmk.
Iy6        ,  - stle    ast bitumem de 7  tttxk (HU.3011b) aid di pt  OU.5/b) + drivwr at Wdw.
raw F ,- zcaS, m rm  MI - I2 .3/p
OIM C:   t  at   UW  Is 5 tbw*.  It 1A pcapa.i - It    l p  m.dU1p at tdo siuldzed pdm of 1 tab, so. mato t d_Ub1Mw Is
hC5f  ad tt dim  s          WlDma. The smUmldw win bowr   comao at    tools, ad pwwde  idt labor, ft         e      dU l  r
tim met9m   of craporttSm, eztm, ad  mwh-g.



- 61 -
2
implt ma T3W             M   - 
Cbmteljw/biau)       Gaa         pwudtn
-  ____  wits      wit.       siia. 3
VW  n~~~o :ry       NO          f       M
1              126               27 a            115.2         -
2               5D                 t              36.0         -
3                                 _                5.6         -
S                -                -                -            _
6                -                -                -           6
7                7                -                4.9         -
10                -                -                _           _
11                -                -               -            70
12                7                -                4.9         -
13                -                -                _           _
14                -                -               -            -
L5                -                -                _           _
16                -                -               -            6
17                7                -                4.9         -
16                -                -               _            _
19                _                _                _           _
21                -                -                _-
W (tS 231) ofQt -(Ig)                              119.5
W(at 231) ofir   (md .3 'md                                     Ti9
--3,e rate (Il pr SoL'd .3)
K~2.6.            iC3.9Fm~3            5.1/.          w  7.31. C
DV (at 25) of lf1z.                                               62.1                93.2             121.9             174.S
NWl (at 231) of wt1 bmff     ti    Itzt   (31)                  - 57.               - 26.3               2A        S     55.0
NWt (at 231) df uK bmft b bl1c. Qi (1t2)                          54.5                54.5              54.5            5SL5
1d      m>~  w 1 pdid at .  af 2           w   .te telar pee
l. tD tise j>~~w   fhi per s b qrl. cizps CS)'1                  174.8              126.2              81.4               -
-r  tf WIWng  at ei f 2 swn (_   1WD murlvm)                 9 tua6 tddsa                          4 -ail
*f ltbzm         I F.a     umitz.
b,  aw  mur*  as  ml ufzinma _w: rI7/lV
CJ Fl tins a    s *te iN l-r   dD wlEl r.|u1  *my bz  1r tie  pilon atnr Sxr fuimimd pr~1m   ta N. - atw  -
ai ml qLul imu.    1    im Is Ut1 rl *e1   a 4r of 4 t~1a    mof zlht.  1}1 i pays ri  full at df tim mdI
(1251  fo r 2300  Uiz~) tI EIR of w.t 'md  . KI9.S. P e  win  of iafI±m 'ld 1m  b N. K25 for Sxmu~d xu.I  w
N.bIii    auS di iu1dtima1 s:qiu. iMdi1          a   WH raI of d K10.63/so1M.3.
'S1, UrSm1'm,N.dcntem   S   *3Bl- F. flh 1xmi ne               -  S
-425a'



- 62 -
ANNEX   2
Table   6
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Annual Crop Budgets for One Hectare of Marginal Agric. Land
Gross     Input              Total 2/       Net
Yield   Revenues   Costs   Man   Variable Costs  Benefits
Kg/ha    MK/ha      MK/ha   Days       MK/ha        MK/ha
Composite 1/      1600     195.2       78.2   150        183.2          12
Maize
Groundnuts 1/      350     210.0       44.0   200        184.0         26
Full Package
Cassava           1000      40.0       10.0    30         31.0          9
1/  Crop budget based on models presented in the Kasungu Agricultural
Development Project SAR (Jan. 85), Annex IV, Table 2, with yields
adjusted downwards to levels considered likely for marginal
agricultural land.
2, Frequently in one hectare annual models, labor costs are not included
in variable costs, and instead the net benefit per man-day is
computed. As we wish to compare returns per hectare over 21 years to
growing fuelwood with returns per hectare over 21 years to planting
other agricultural crops, and these alternatives have very different
total labor requirements, it was thought more appropriate for the
comparisoTr to include labor costs. Labor is costed at the rural
minimum wage, MKO.70/MD.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Net &eturns to 1 Hectare, 21 Year Crop Rotation
Net
Crop                    Benefit (MK/ha)
Yr.   1             Coup. Maize                      12
2            Comp. Maize                      12
3            Comp. Maize                      12
4            Groundnuts                       26
5            Cassava                           9
6            Comp. Maize                      12
7            Comp. Maize                      12
8             Comp. Maize                     12
9            Groundnut                        26
10            Cassava                           9
11            Comp. Maize                      12
12            Comp. Maize                      12
13            Comp. Maize                      12
14            Groundnuts                       26
15            Cassava                           9
16            Comp. Maize                      12
17            Comp. Maize                      12
18            Comp. Maize                      12
19            Groundnuts                       26
20             Cassava                          9
21            Comp. Malze                      12
Presented Discounted Value of Net Benefits @ 25% discount = MK 54.5
1/   This rotation of three years composite maize, followed by one year
groundnuts and one year cassava, was considered by EASAP agricultural staff
most appropriate for marginal agricultural land in Malawi.



- 64 -
ARI   2
Ta  8e
s9    Wm el=  Pow
Vlls at ne¢rea sOc           Mb                                                                                e 2.6
TA6    )  I/  7.5
P1Ab   per limii I dal (~Uac1MKIIC     s 0.35
ft=kctlm af FebBOd. 2/ } Rtmm> VdW
FD Vasof 03m  Cmu             Taw)     -  SMt.4
IfD  to s af--       (23A  4   m3 e 2.6) -    NW.1
Of Val   olf FAt aut                    MW3.7
d  saUd  Lo D                 1 -           139
Ra-mi tr 1mn  (Not Pr t Valper 01. 0.29
D Yak.   T  DA)n
WM    Fambar tl  at odtfgspe                  e is 1Dicy to be eg  len atativ  e
maf f,  if, fm (3. aslIyd tie fa6)  p d1m                           yt c       t      od. if
bls           te is 1e t    25Z or   if te MIl ti Yor a    ery powi.29
Wm1  la_bor Dm7)d3-eo,.2e-6p
I/            R br~a. per mt &amd a ft 3 ~u irg onea msoWw    0 Is liel 2D a mff 1    tte3   timi -am 60 bw  p
-    3 - 7.5 labor dqs (of 8 ba   ). So9o: Mlaei Pbretry Sab-Sector Sbd  1984.
2, S  Ti1l S for mwsmo  ad bmfis to f       .



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Fuelwnod Sellers in Urban Market
Costs 1/                   Stumpage - MK1.8/m3    Stuupage - SK 5.4/m3
M4K
Purchase of wood (22 stacked m3)           39.6                    118.8
Cutting & stacking @ MKO.6/m3              13.2                     13.2
Transport 'Av 100 Km round trip)2/        105                      105
Loading & Unloading (5 MD @ 2bK/MD)        10                       10
Market fees at MKO.5/day over 2 vks.        7                        7
Labor for first chopping 3/                61.6                     61.6
Labor for second chopping (402 of wood)  24.6                       24.6
Total Costs                             261.0                    340.2
SCENARIO     Seller maintains same price/m3 as before, & bears entire
I:         burden of stumpage increase.
Sales:  22 m3 @  MK 20/m3 4/            440                      440
Net profit                                179                       99.8
Proflt margin                             692                      29Z
Net profit/day                             12.8                      7.1
Increase in costs to consumer                                        0
SCENARIO     Seller raises price to maintain net profit/day
II:
Sales:  22 m3 @ MK 23.6/m3                                       519.2
Net profit                                                         179
Profit margin                                                      532
Net profit/day                                                      12.8
Increase in costs to consumer                                      18X
SCENARIO     Seller raises price to maintain profit margin
III:
Sales:  22 .3 # MK 26.1                                          574*9
Net profit                                                         234.7
Profit margin                                                      692
Net profit/day                                                      16.8
Increase in costs to consumer                                      312
1/ Basic assumption: 1 14-15 ton truck load of 22 stacked m3
2   Basic rate MKI.05/KM for 14-15 ton truck on asphalt roads.  Source:
Transport Division, World Bank.
3/ At MK 0.10/log for 616 logs (28 logs/m3), It is assumed one man can
chop 20 logs/day @ 2MK/MD
4/ Fuelwood currently sold at an average price of MK20/m3 in Lilongwe (see
Wood Energy Project Phase II Preparation Report).



- 66-                           ANNEX   2
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Tobacco Production Costs and Revenue for Large-Scale Farming 1/
Impact of a Rise in Stumpage Fee
Tobacco (Flue-cured)
Present          New
Stumpage       Stumpage
fees          fees
............. (1jt    ............
Direct Costs:
-  Chemical and pesticides                        634.3 )
-  Consumables                                    163.7 )
-  Curing expenses (excl wood)                     20.5 )
-  Diesel                                       1,261.7 )
-  Fertilizer                                   1,145.8 )
-  General expenses                                47.7 )
-  Insurance                                      190.9 )
-  Land rents                                      40.9 )
-  Oil and grease                                  170.5 )
-  Packing materials                              218.2 )       8,333.4
-  Petrol                                          122.8 )
-  Rations                                        409.2 )
-  Rations recoveries (50%)                      (204.6))
-  Repair and maintenance                       1,132.1 )
-  Salaries and allowances                        341.0 )
-  Seed                                             6.8)
-  Transport                                      252.3 )
-  Wages: - fixed                                 375.1 )
-         - variable                            1,493.6 )
-  Selling expenses                               510.9 )
-  Fuelwood 2/ (81.840 m3)                        196.4 3/        491.0 4/
Total:             875782
Revenue:
-  Tobacco:  5,115 @ MK2.2/Kg 5/               11,253.0        11,253.0
Net Revenue (MK'000)                         2,723.2         2,428.6
Profit margin                                   32%             28%
-  Area (ha)                                    2,760.0         2,760.0
Net Revenue (MK/ha)                            987.0           880.0
1/ Figures refer to 1983/84.
2/ Based on the following assumption: 16 m3 of fuelwood to cure 1,000 kg of
tobacco.
3/ Present stumpage fee of MK 1.8 m3 + 0.6/m3 cutting & stacking.
4/ New stumpage fee of MK 5.4/m3 + 0.6/m3 cutting and stacking.
51 Average price at auction floor.
SOURCE: General Farming Co. Ltd. - Kasungu.



- 67 -                          ANNEX   2
Table 11
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Tobacco Budget per ha by Variety (Small Farmers)
Impact of a Rise in Stumpage Fee on Production Costs
NDDF (North)                    SDDF (South)
Present        New        Present      New
Stumpage    Stumpage      Stumpage   Stumpage
Fee           Fee          Fee        Fee
Yield (Kg/ha)                         450.00                    425.00
Price (at active floor)                  1.01                     0.84
(MKI/ha)
Gross Value of Production             454.50                     357.00
(MIC/ha)
MK/ha
Production Costs 1/
Seed
Chemicals                      4.5           4.5           4.5       4.5
Fertilizers 2/                83.5          83.5          83.5      83.5
Curing wood                   20.0          20.0          20.0      20.0
Wood 3/                       17.3 4/       43.2 5/       16.3      40.8
Grading                       35.0          35.0 -        35.0      35.0
Sub-total                   160.3        186.2         159.3      183.8
Interest (15% of above)       24.0          27.9          23.9      27.6
Transport & Packing            4.1           4.1           4.1       4.1
Total Costs                 188.4         218.8         187.3     215.5
Net Benefit                  266.1         235.7         169.7      141.5
Profit Margin               141%          106%          90%        66Z
SOURCE: Ministry of Agriculture
1/  Excluding labor (260 MD/ha - all family labor).
2/  150 kg/ha of 20-20-0 plus 100 kg/ha of calcium Amm. Nitrate.
31 16 m3 of fuelwood are required to cure 1,000 kg of tobacco.
17 At MK1.8/m3 + 0.6/m3 cutting & stacking.
5/ At WK5.4/m3 + 0.6/m3 cutting & stacking.



- 68 -                          ANNEX   2
Table  12
NALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Financial Analysis for 6,000 Hectares of Government Plantations
(M OOO)
Yr.      Costs a/           Benefits e/             Net Benefits
1      - 1083.'               -                       - 1083.7
2      -  785.1               -                       -  785.1
3      -  895.2               -                       -  895.2
4      -  939.1               -                       -  939.1
5      -  955.8             24 x  7.7                 -  791.0
6      -  939.3             40 x  8.9                 -  593.3
7 b/   -  304.6             66 x 10.3                    375.2
8 c    -  170.7             80 x 11.9                    781.3
9 /   -  105.0             114 x 13.6                    1445.4
10      -  105.0            134 x 15.3f/                  1945.2
11-12   -  105.0             95 x 15.3                   1348.5
13      -  105.0            104 x 15.3                   1486.2
14      -  105.0            137 x 15.3                   1991.1
15-16   -  105.0             90 x 15.3                   1272.0
17      -  105.0            112 x 15.3                   1608.6
18      -  105.0            126 x 15.3                   1822.8
19      -  105.0             62 x 15.3                    843.6
20      -  105.0             76 x 15.3                    1057.8
21-22   -  105.0             80 x 15.3                    1119.0
23-24   -  105.0             40 x 15.3                    507.0
25      -  105.0             18 x 15.3                     170.4
26      -  105.0             30 x 15.3                    354.0
27-30   -  105.0             33 x 15.3                    399.9
FRR - 14.8
a/ Base costs as of Jan. 1986, including physical contingencies.
b/ Includes 2nd and 3rd Yr. maintenance.
c/ Includes 3rd Yr. maintenance.
d/ Annual overhead costs calculated in Ryan WP, updated to Jan. 1986
prices.
e/ See Ryan WU for yields in '000 solid m3, paragraph 4.05 of this report
for the stumpage rate (in Jan 1986 prices) prevailing in any given year.
f/ The replacement cost of MK15.3/solid m3 was calculated as the price that
equates the present value of costs and benefits, discounted at 12%, for
the Lilongwe plantation, which is considered a typical plantation. The
financial returns to the entire Governaent plantation component exceed
12%, even though the full replacement cost is not reached immediately,
because the wood yields from the Mulanje plantations are exceptionally
high.



- 69 -
M   2
AIU                                              Tabl.  L3
9XD easw RAT                                              i*IEr 
SinU b.Ebr %MoZM: Tal YHe ad mu!        1/ (10,880 1)
Project Tr. 1    Project Yr. 2    Proje¢ Yr. 3     Project Yr.l 4   rojec Mr. 5    projct Yr. 6    Tat       TDO1
Mr.  68D 0!             112D) 1         15601.            22801b         2280 ha         2960          YIeld    Cbs 
_ _ __3                                                                  1CO0 K
1      -                                                  -               -                -            -        167.8
2      -                        -                         -               -                -            -        310.2
3      -                         -                         -              -                -            -        4S4.7
4      -                -                                 -               -                -            -        646.9
5      -                -                                  -              -                -            -        685.3
6     40.8              -                                 -               -                -           40.8      857.3
7      -               67.2              -                -               -                -           67.2      164.5
8      -                -               93.6               -              -                -           93.6       23.0
9      -                                   -             136.8            -                -          136.8        7.9
10     -                         -                         -             136.8             -           136.A      11.6
11    47.6               -                                 -               -              177.6        225.2      11.6
12     -                78.2             -                 -               -                -           78.4      18.5
13     -                 -              109.2              -               -                -          109.2       5.7
14     -                 -               -                159.8            -                -          159.6       7.9
[5     -                 -               -                 -             159.8              -          159.6      11.6
16    40.8               -               -                 -               -              207.2        248.0      11.6
17     -                67.2             -                 -               -                -           67.2      18.5
i8     -                 -               93.6              -               -                -           93.6       5.7
19     -                 -                -               136.8            -                -          136.8       7.9
2      -                 -               -                 -             136.8              -          136.8      11.
21     34.0              -                -                -               -              177.6        211.6      11.6
22     -                56.0                               -               -                -           56        15.1
23     -                 -               78.0              -                                -           78         -
24     -                 -                                114.0            -                -          114.0       -
25     -                 -                -                -             U4.0               -          114.0       -
26     -                 -                                 -               -              148.0        148.0       -
27     -                 -                        -                -                                     -         -
28     -                 -                                 -       -                        ---
29     -                 -                                 -----
30                               -                -               -               -                           -
IU_.                                                                                           2611.2
I/ lba yId 1 b     rn yield of I htcre wdel, uudtpUed 1W toa uzber of huctar pLatmd In ead. of the Proiect wcs. luz    of
bectom. plamtud iLuLUy is detemined by the wtpSt of seodlizW  f-o the am  waeries *  t  sad p    , (am Rym wIkIW poper).
(bt ae I    a omca of I hectare mdel  iui Table 4, qv,ate to Jim  1986 ctmt pric.



- 70 -
ANNEX   2
Table 14
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Economic Valuation of Fuelwood Based on Imported Kerosene Alternative
Landed Cost of Kercsene (MK per litre)                           0.38
Retailing Cost 1/ (MK per litre)                                 0.22
Economic Cost of Kerosene at Urban Market                        0.60
Calorific Value of Kerosene (MJ/litre)                          36.0
Thermal Efficiency of Kerosene 2/                               30%
Calorific Value of Wood at 20% Moisture (MJ/Kg)                 14.4
Thermal Efficiency of Wood 2/                                   13%
Conversion (Kg wood per solid m3)                              700
Value of Fuelvood at Urban Market in Terms of Kerosene
Alternative 3/ (MKI/solid m3)                                  72.8
Processing & Marketing Costs (MK/solid m3) 4/                    6.7
Felling Cross Cutting & Extraction to Roadside (MK/solid m3)  1
Value of Standing Timber in Terms of Kerosene Alternative
at Periphery of Urban Area (MK/solid m3)                       65.1
Transport Cost from 50 Km (MK/solid m3) 5/                       6.8
Value of Standing Timber in Terms of Kerosene Alternative
at 50 Km from Urban Area (MK/solid m3) 6/                      58.3
1/ Kerosene retailed at MKO.94/litre, of which MKO.22 are taxes, and
MKO.34 handling and profit of which two thirds (MKO.22/litre) are
assumed marketing costs.
2/ With aluminum pots.
'S Wood Equivalent = 0.60x14.4x.13x700 = MK72.8/solid m3
36x0.30
4/ From Annex 2, Table 9, processing costs (market fees, labor for
chopping, loading & unloading) = MK4.7/stacked m3 or MK6.7/solid m3.
5/  Basic assumption 22 stacked m3 (15.4 solid m3) on a 14-15 ton lorry at
the rate of M1K.05/Km on asphalt roads.  This implies a cost of MK105
for the roundtrip, or MK6.8/solid m3.  Roundtrip costs are used because
there is unlikely to be much freight for the haul from the urban area
to the plantation.
6/ Lilongwe plantation is on the urban periphery while Mulanje is 80-100
Km from Blantyre. Hence, on average, transport costs from 50 km apply
to the Government plantation component of the Project.



- 71 -
ANNEX   2
Table 15
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Cost of One Ton of Pine Charcoal from Viphya 1/
MK/Ton
Costs of Selective Felling and Extraction (MK0.70/stacked m3)    11.62
Wood Royalty 2/
Labor:   Burners                                                    14.81
Workers                                                     5.56
Choppers                                                   4.17
Bags                                                                 4.00
Handling/Loading                                                     0.50
Kilns/Tools                                                         12.00
Transport (Viphya to Blantyre) 3/                                  145.08
Handling/Loading                                                     4.00
Overheads                                                           20.00
DELIVERED COST PER TONNE (MK)                                     222.46
Economic Valuation of Fuelwood Based on Viphya Charcoal Alternative
Calorific Value of Charcoal (MJ/Kg)                                 29.5
Thermal Efficiency of Charcoal                                     24%
Value of Fuelvood at Urban Market in Terms of Viphya Charcoal
Alternative (mk/solid m3)                                          41.2
Processing & Marketing Costs (mk/solid m3)                           6.7
Felling Croes Cutting & Extraction to Roadside (mk/solid m3)         1.0
Value of Standing Timber in Terms of Viphya Charcoal
Alternative at Periphery of Urban Area                             33.5
Transport Cost from 50 km (mk/solid m3)                              6.8
Value of Standing Timber in Terms of Viphya Charcoal
Alternative at 50 km from Urban Area                               26.7
1/ See S. Keiley WP for detailed costs of charcoal production in Viphya.
2/ Zero opportunity cost for wood in the Viphya is assumed.
3/ Blantyre to Viphya is 648 km on asphalt roads. Assume 20 tons charcoal
on 30 ton lorry at MK2.25/km.  Although at present there are some
lorries carrying commodities North and returning empty, once charcoal
production gets going, the full costs of the round trip would have to
be borne, as the volume of traffic going from the heavily populated
South to the sparsely populated North is small. Here transport is
costed at full round trip costs.



- 72 -
ANNEX   2
Table 16
Page    1
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Cost of Obtaining Fuelwood through Depletion of Indigenous Forest
Many tobacco estates are currently going nearly 100 km to fetch wood.
Projections of demand by urban consumers alone suggest total depletion of
indigenous forest within a 100 km radius of Blantyre by the year 2000, not
taking rural demand into account (see Ryan Working Paper). Here 150 km is
taken as the expected average distance over the next 30 years over which
wood would have to be fetched.
Transport Costs for fetching wood from 150 km:
Round trip costs ror 14-15 ton lorry carrying 22 stacked m3 1/
- 150 x 1.05 + 150 x 1.50 - MK382.5 for 22 stacked m3 - MK24.8/solid m3
Value of standing timber on urban periphery (transport costs avoided)
- 1K24.8/solid m3
Value of standing timber 50 km from urban market (transport costs avoided)
- MK18.0/solid m3
In addition to transport costs of bringing fuelwood from indigenous forest,
there are environmental costs associated with destruction of natural
forest. Estimating the environmental effects of forest destruction is not
easy for lack of appropriate data in Malawi. For indicative purposes, the
impact of forest depletion is considered through the yield loss in maize
(the principal crop in Malawi) due to adverse seasonal/climatic factors.
For example, flooding and wind erosion which result in yield loss due to
plants being blown over and water stress (drought) are factors that are
generally induced by forest depletion. Accordingly, the results of the
National Sample Survey of Agriculture (1980/81) were used to estimate the
effect of forest depletion on maize yield. This survey indicates that
adverse climatic factors accounted for about 8-15X loss in maize yield.
It is assumed that two hectares of indigenous forest clearfelled (yielding
80 m3 solid of wood) will adversely affect one hectare of agricultural
1/ It is assumed that the first 75 km of the distance is on asphalt roads
(cost - MK1.05/Km) and the next 75 on gravel roads (cost = MKI.50/km),
and that round trip costs are relevant as there is unlikely to be much
freight going from urban centres to distant forests. (Source: Transport
Division, World Bank).



- 73 -
ANNEX   2
Table 16
Page    2
land, causing a 10% decline in annual maize productivity2/. (While the
estimate should be taken as illustrative rather than definitive, the
negative ecological consequences of deforestation are well recognized in
Malawi. In the Smallholder Tree Planting Survey done by the Energy Studies
Unit (1982), 55% of smallholders interviewed said that the cutting of trees
in their areas had reduced the fertility of their gardens, and cited the
role of trees in preventing soil erosion and gulleying, and in dropping
leaves that decompose and enrich the soil.)
Annual Yield Hybrid Maize (Kg/ha)                          2500
10% Annual Yield Loss (Kg/ha)                              250
Value of Annual Yield Loss (@ MKl90/ton)              MK  47.5
Present Discounted Value (at 122) of Yield Loss
Over 30 Years                                        MK 382.6
Value of Agric. Output Foregone per m3 Solid          MK   4.8
Value of Standing Timber on Urban Periphery
(transport costs and agric. losses avoided)          MK  29.6/m3
Value of Standing Timber 50 km from Urban Market
(transport costs and agric. losses avoided)          MK  22.8/m3 solid
2/ In practice, the degradation in maize output will be less initially and
will build up gradually over time. Obviously the discounted average is
less than the undiscounted average so that the shortcut taken in the
calculation tends to overestimate the present value of environmental
costs. Some people believe that when dealing with possibly
irreversible damage to the environment, discounting is not appropriate.



- 74 -
ANNEX   2
Table 17
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Value of Fuelvood from Small Farmers Woodlots
In the absence of woodlots, rural households would collect wood
from the indigenous forest. This has costs associated with resulting
environmental degradation, approximated, as in Table 17, by the value of
the decline in maize output, at K4.8/m3. There are a]so the opportunity
costs of labor spent in gathering fuelwood rather than in other prouetive
activ'.ties. Currently it is estimated that it takes around 7.5 labor days
to collert one solid m3, which at the rural minimum wage represents a value
of K5.23/m3. As depletion increases, it is not unreasonable to suppose
that the time spent collecting wood could double, implying a cost in terms
of foregone returns to labor, of K10.5/solid i3. Hence, the approximate
economic value of fuelwood from the small farmer woodlots would be
MKI5.30/solid m3.
The above calculation is only illustrative, given the uncertainty
about appropriate values for the various coefficients involved. The
minimum wage may be an overestimate of the output foregone if wood is
principally gathered by children.  The increase in time spent collecting
wood would occur gradually over time and, using the average value, will
tend to overestimate costs as the discounted average would be lower.



- 75 -                        ANNEX   2
Table 18
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Relationship Between Recurrent and Capital Expenditure
(Million Kwacha in 1986 Prices)
Average for                                       Average
1981-85                                             for
(Phase I)   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5  PYY6   Phase II
Recurrent
Expenditures:
Non-incremental
Expenditure 1/      1.3      1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4'  1.4   1.4        1.4
Incremental
(Project) Exp.      2.5      3.2   33.6 3.87   3.1   3,.   3.0        3.3
Total Recurrent
Exp.              =[          .    !      !     l    z5   -7[5         .
Capital
Expenditures:
Son-incremental
Expenditure 1/      1.1      1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3        1.3
incremental
?roJec })
Expenditure         3.0      3,4   1.8   1.0   1.1   1.0   0.9        1.5
:otal CaDital
Expenditure         4.1      4.7   3.1   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.2        2.8
r - coefficient      0.93     0.98  1.61  2.26  1.88  2.0   2.0        1.68
-' ?-jaected expenses are based on the assumption that expenditures in
i-2s:rial. forests (Including Viphya) would be reduced to at least 50%
af She.r levels in 1985/86.



- 76 -
ANNEX   2
Table 19
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Project Related Government/FD Cash Flow
(Million Kwacha in 1986 Prices)
PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   PY6   Average
Incremental (Project)
Expenditure         6.6   5.4   4.8   4.2   4.2   3.9       4.8
Revenue Collection 1/          -    4.8  5.6    6.5   7.4   8.5  55.5
1/ GOM has determined that the policy of free use of forestry products by
rural households will continue. This leaves roughly 3.5 million solid
m3 per annum, or 40X of total consumption, potentially subject to
stumpage fees (see para.2.02). It is assumed that, under the new
revenue collection system, fees can be collected for 60X of urban
domestic consumption, urban and rural industries and 10% of estates'
consumption (see Working Paper No. 2 in Project Files). To obtain the
revenue projections, the projected stumpage rates during the project
period (para.4.05) were applied to the volumes implied by these
percentages. No revenue is assumed collectible during the first year
of the Project during which th3 RCPs are put into place. Revenue
projections include the 25% to be given to the traditional authorities.



-A- a
mmO wm ams TKU
NHr Skzb= of tt. RWit7 bIPt
MHisftry at txmry
lnutzu  of Ibtry
Qdef Ftry Officer                                                _    ntfm Seettm
r6nSea C l                                                               ollrr
|                 btvry DitVstn  |      ltry  ts   Di Cvisi|       F| rat  Sqrt Servd iw           | 1       6          |
Lp*uy Oadef Paertry Officer    hpqy ahlf Ibtry Offker 1DivX                                             Offie S er 
tlbod 0SKW Prohet Cloonuntzor)   Di  vb ldef Fmt&   Sfftor .1wm1e . .
L   __    I        _ _ 1                                     h~~~~~~~~~~~~a~  of hrwtrq  ft1ipl1 ftct  Off iar
P~.za ka~   W    tr~a   lttta        lire Otro1   
hr"tw Offmr Forestry Offtmr  Offt r53                                                       _HEht
wisitant Chid           lntmtatt Odef        Oja  Ii_
axes ty Officer      wtvy        S Officer                                                         ItE                lg G        l      rSP
-EEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
RR   Cy Ammey suviam                 ww a1 luq                     Amutlaw                 Ieramzu  ad O.i.1 Offimr
Amzzait Cdi  Forutry Officer                uL awt af utes xy Offt u          ftmil A1      tt                 PC=.r- Off-   ---
iti1wu        1p Patsuehldty                 htautmi aid       1m            BayuI                                               I       I     1
|Ibt I_,tl   " bctna"             hSctimt     fz frralnqa        a  rb1 F      1um                                      1It! O       1     R       I
3 liwW try Offim
124 MIXt rr loatry Off f
17 Am ocarol aut        I



- 78 -
CHART   II
Page
MALAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Action                                    Date
1.  Loan Effectiveness                        July 1, 1986 - Tentative
2.  Appointment of Project Coordinator        Condition of Loan Effectiveness
Establishment of ACUB (no)                 4   in   1986
14   in   1987
9   in   1988
Establishment of RCPs (no)                 7   in   1986
10   in   1987
3. Establishment of Pilot Extension Units
(EPU) (no)                               2   in   1986
4   in   1987
Evaluation of EPUs                       Early      1990
Establishment of Extension Units (no)   1   in   1990
2   in   1991
Appointment of Head of EPU                Not later than September 1, 1986
4.  Appointment of Head of M & E Unit         Not later than September 1, 1986
Expatriate Consultant                    October-November 1986
5.  Appointment of Head of Planning
Unit                                    Not later than September 1, 1986
Assignment of Expatriate Consultant    6 Months in 1987
6. Establishment of Retail Nurseries
(no)                                    10   in   1986
20   in   1987
30   in   1988
Demonstration Woodlots (ha)               15   in   1986
40   in   1987
55   in   1988
Investment Bonus Payment                 Start in July 1988



- 79 -
CHART   II
Page     2
7. Establishment of KFCTA Plantation (ha)
300  in   1986
500  in   1987
700 annually in 1988-92
8.  Government Plantations (ha)               700  in   1986
900  in   1987
1100 annually in 1988-92
9. Appointment of Head of Charcoal
Pilot Scheme                            Not later than September 1, 1986
Assignment of Expatriate Charcoal
Specialists                             September 1, 1986-March 1, 1988
Assignment of Expatriate Evaluation
Consultant                              January 1 - March 31, 1988
Completion of the Feasibility Study    March 31, 1988
0.  Appointment of the Head of the Stove
Program                                 Not later than September 1, 1986
Beginning of Commercial Pr.,duction      July 1987
1.  Completion of Training Plan              September 1, 1986
FG to be Trained (no)                    60   in   1987
61   in   1988
NM to be Trained (no)                    26   in   1986
20   in   1987
20   in   1988
PM to be Trained (no)                    50   in   1986
150   in   1987
205   in   1988
Workshops and Seminars                   One Per Year between 1986 and
1991
2.  Completion of Research Plan              September 1, 1986
3.  Mid-term Review                          July 1989
4.  Project Completion                       December 31, 1992



329          \~~~..,   ra Der es So/hem                314'                                                          6                   
32-                          DSo                                                                   MA LA WI
onow5>e    t7                  FORESTRY WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
. .C\  IPA                                                           PHASE 11
Existing Forest Reserves (Gazetted)
KARONGA  FN                               Proposed Forest Reserves (Approved by H.E,)
-108                                                                        [=~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Proposed Forest Reserves   11
-10                         /                   /       &                          .                   *A    Proposed Revenue Collection Posts
,*  (  g Proposed Government Plantations
*  Sawmills
l   \    Chilumbel         -     Main Roods
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --Railways
1     District Capitols
Chiweta                   _        District Boundaries
~~~~ \    s ~~~~~~~~~~              LivingitoniaD   
Region Boundaries
/  0/   /    OMlowe    )   _   _   International Boundaries
129                                                                /              ./      \      /
orwMTOZAMBA    I AU
NKHATAK,TA
,cOREsr<C                                  
7   \ 1i       <  /I/1eazombo 
Z        A     M   B      I    A         LMIMBAf /ChisumtJu /lu
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vl Cabra\
KM  Z A M B I   U E
\   0           >            ~~~~~NKHOTAKOTA
l S~~KASUNGU IJ 
/   v        z     _             j                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vilat Cabral
S  tn       <)ssCH15   \ (                      t HI



/':)                                    1 > \, >                  \                          Vila Cabral
Mpone o THS
XMSHINJI                                                                            \\
140'LILNG    E                                                                                                       Chiok          Monkey                                                                         114 \ 
| ni    /    ~~~                      (              \.    >t~~  <iZAt/i  ;  8\ i uni                               Ba
> \. JO. - ~~ ~~\S \. i v YNGOCH I\ 
-.. ~           ~ 0                                                                     .  s                                         .\
0          20          40          60          80 MILES
{ -t - - t - - i - - ) ~~~~~NTCHEU)l
10                50                 100 KILOMETERS                                                                  'VAs      )   |Bol       Liwonde
This map ttas been prepared by
The Wortr. Bank ' staff exclusivety                                                                                                              ACHIN
for the convenience of the                                                                                                                        Ka5upe
readers and is exclusively for the
internal use of rhe World Bank
and Ihe hilerna bonal Finance
Corporation rhe denominations
used and the boundanes shown,
an IhS mnap do not impty. on the
part ot The Wortd Bank and the
International Finance Corporation.                                                                                              i e a      KU
any judgment an the legal status
of any leritory or any
endorsement or acceptance ofatib  
uch boundaries
32/'
ZAIRE    TANZANIA                  16'                                                      CHIKWAWA                                                                                           16'L
t. ) > ,/ ~~~~~~~~Tetey \                                                                                             X  THO
ANGOLA   T'-
-      4   VMALAWI/\    .'.  
V ZAMBI.A -)
| *~~- ~~._4; z~MOZAM9IUEN |                                                                                      \Ngobu  
Fr'.Z~IMBABWE
NAMIBIAJ                                                                                                                   Sngu
BOTSWANA .    1
0v   S               SWAZILAND
O j ; . :; / \: 2,#{^~~~~~~~~~~~~~NSANJE \  
-40
m             ~~SOUTH   (LESO,THO                ~M                                   M        I       U        
m          °     FIH  -S,TOC                                     M  O  Z A  M  B I QU E                                                '\                           
m             AFRICA         , 
u t n                                                                                            3 4 '   ,  
en~ ~     ~                                                                                                                                                                                                              C \  a cr  36 






