Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Rq1 t No. P-4245-MAr
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.7 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMErT OF MALAWI
FOR A
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
March 3, 1986
| This dcummt h  a restrctui distrlbhuo and may be used by recipents ady ib the pefonmaue of
their offidia dud. lb cVteb  a y e u dwowei be disiwd wItlb  Wodi Dack a.tbliral.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00        =  HK 1.80
MK 1.00        =  US$0.56
100 Tambala    = MKI
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACU                -   Area Control Unit
FRIM               -   Forest Research Institute of Malawi
NRDP               -   National Rural Development Program
RCP                -   Revenue Collection Post
WEIGHTS, VOLUMES AND MEASURES
I m3 Stacked Wood             =    0.70 m3 Solid Wood
I m3 Stacked Wood             =    0.49 Ton of Wood
1 Meter (m)                   =    3.3 Feet
I Cubic Meter (m3)                 35.3 Cubic Feet
I Hectare (ha)                =    2.47 Acres
I Kilometer (Km)              =    0.62 Miles
I Square Kilometer (1rm2)     =    0.39 Square Miles
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawi: April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAILAWI
SECOND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Malawi.
Executing Agency:      Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources.
Amount:                US$16.7 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variab'le interest rate.
Project Description:  The objective of the Project is to reduce
the gap between sustainable fuelwood supply and
demand by (i) developing policy instruments and
incentives to encourage tree planting on a national
basis, (ii) increasing fuelwood production through
tree planting by small farmers and through
establishing a limited number of Government
plantations in ecologically fragile areas; and (iii)
reducing fuelwood consumption by introducing more
efficient charcoal kilns and household stoves. The
Project would include components to support
institutional development, wood production, wood
conservation, and research and training.  Its most
significant features are: increases in fuelwood
prices, expanded forestry extension and collection
activities, provision of incentives for tree
planting, and a redefinition of the Government's role
in fuelwood production to emphasize the encouragement
of private tree planting.
Benefits                  Smallholder woodlots (17,000 ha) and plantations
and                  established by the Government (6,000 ha) would
Risks                 produce abut 230,000 m3 of fuelwood annually, which
would reduce the current supply/demand deficit in
fuelvood and protect the interdependent soil and
water resources necessary for agricultural
production. The introduction of more efficient
charcoal production technologies and charcoal
efficient stoves would result in substantial savings
in annual fuelvood consumption.
The principal risk of the Project lies in the
implementation of a comprehensive and new policy
package. If any of the policy elements fails to be
implemented, then the Project may be unable to
achieve its objective of increased private production
of fuelwood. To lessen these risks the Project would
r This document has a restrcted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their aokcis duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



provide for strengthening and improved organization
of the Forestry Department, for procedures to
encourage cooperation with traditional and other
authorities, for training of field and central
staff, and for annual reviews of Project
implementation. In addition a full scale mid-term
review would be undertaken after three years of
Project implementation to identify any required
corrections in the policy package.
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
US$ Million
Institutional Development
1.  Revenue Collection System         2.1          1.1           3.2
2.  Pilot Extension Scheme            0.7          0.6           1.3
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit                            0.2         0.2           0.4
4.  Planning Unit                     0.4          0.5           0.9
5.  Strengthening of Forestry
Department                        0.2          0.5           0.7
Subtotal                          3.6          2.9           6.5
Wood Production
1.  Government Plantations            2.0          1.1           3.1
2.  Nurseries                         0.7          0.7           1.4
3.  incentive Payments                0.9           -            0.9
Subtotal                         3.6          1.8          5.4
Wood Conservation
1.  Pilot Charcoal Production         0.1          0.3           0.4
2. Fuel Efficient Stove
Production                        0.1          0.2           0.3
Subtotal                          0.2          0.5           0.7
Support Services
1.  Research                          0.4          1.0           1.4
2.  Training                          0.4          0.5           0.9
Subtotal                          0.8          1.5          2.3
Total Base Costs                      8.2          6.7          14.9
Physical Contingencies                0.3          0.1           0.4
Price Contingencies                   2.7          1.6           4.3
Total Costs                      11.2          8.4          19.6



- iii 
Financing Plan
IBRD                                  8.3          8.4          16.7
Government                            2.9           -            2.9
11.2         8.4          19.6 1/
Estimated Disbursement of IBRD Loan
IBRD FY              87      88      89      90     91      92    93
Annual              1.9    3.4      3.0    2.6    2.4    2.3   1.1
Cumulative          1.9    5.3      8.3   10.9   13.3   15.6  16.7
Economic Rate of Return:        l0%
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 5914-NAI  Dated:  February 26, 1986
Map:                          IBRD No. 19290
1/ Taxes are negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from
import duties and sales tax.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR3
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A SECOlND WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of USS16.7 million to
help finance a Second Wood Energy Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY f/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5801-MAI) dated October
4, 1985, was circulated to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985.
The following paragraphs summarize the principal findings of the report.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983), landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        With a GNP per capita of USS210, Malawi has been identified by
the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries. Nevertheless,
from independence in 1964 until 1979, Malawi had steady economic growth,
averaging 6% per annum in real terms (3% per capita). The leading sectors
were agriculture and manufacturing. Investment rose from 9% of GDP at
independence to 33% in 1979, financed by increased domestic savings (from
nil to 14! of GDP in 1979), and official and private capital inflows. In
1980 and 1981 Malawi met with serious difficulties due to world economic
conditions, and GDP contracted by 6% over those two years. Consumption
fell somewhat, but savings and investment were reduced drastically. Since
1982, recovery has been underway, with growth averaging 4.6% through 1984.
5.        With the exception of the 1980-81 recession, Malawi has enjoyed
steady economic growth, due in large part to the pragmatic policies of the
I/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as those of
the President's Report on the Industrial and Agricultural Credit
Project (Report No. P-4156-MAI dated December 2, 1985).



-2-
Government. Malawi has adopted an outward looking strategy based on
agriculture, consistent with the country's resource endowment. Government
investment has concentrated on provision of infrastructure, utilities and
support services to encourage private initiative. The Government has also
emphasized smallholder agriculture, a sound policy given that 90% of the
population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. Traditionally, about half of the development budget has been
directed towards agriculture and transport, the rest for administrative and
social functions.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of
payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import- prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and
tea; (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and imports
owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in Mozambique, and,
more recently, severe disruptions of overland transport routes through
Mozambique; and (d) an increasing debt service burden.
7.        Beginning in 197R, Malawi's chronic balance of payments problems
became less manageable. The current account deficit rose from a level of
8-9% of GDP in the mid-1970s to 18% in 1978 and 23% in 1979. This balance
of payments crisis was due to declining terms of trade, which fell 40%
between 1977-80, increased transport difficulties and drought. Import
prices rose by 39% over this period, Primarily due to petroleum price
hikes. Conversely, export prices declined by 16% (due mainly to falling
tea and cobacco prices). In 1980 and 1981, a drought led to reduced
agricultural exports and necessitated increased imports of subsistence
crops (maize). Nevertheless, by 1981 Malawi enjoyed a surplus on the
merchandise trade balance thanks mainly to a contraction in imports and has
increased this surplus steadily since 1981. Continuing current account
deficits were due to a large deficit on the service accounts. Transport
costs for imports and exports were greatly increased due to continuing
problems with traditional export rottes through Mozambique. Debt servicing
also contributed to the deficit on the invisibles account. These current
account deficits were initially financed by sharply increased private
capital inflows. These were still not sufficient to finance the current
account deficit and the country drew down its foreign reserves to less than
one month of imports by end 1983. In 1984, the current account deficit was
greatly reduced to three percent of GDP and reserves were increased by
US$65 million. This was due to improvements in the terms of trade, led by
record tea prices, and a sharp increase in exports, as previous stocks of
tobacco and sugar were moved out or the country, resulting in a large trade
surplus, nearly matching the deficit on the services account. The outlook
for 1985 is for a larger defici: as export prices have declined and
carryover stocks are not as large.
8.        The economic difficulties of 1980-81, as well as problems with
public corporations, led to an increase in the Government budget deficit
reaching 16.5% of GDP in 1981, double historic levels. This was due



primarily to a rapid increase in government expenditures, attaining 35%
of GDP in that same year. Much of this was made up of recurrent
expenditures, especially interest payments. Revenues did not increase
commensurately, given the recession, hence the large fiscal deficit. These
deficits were financed by government borrowing, primarily domestic. Public
sector credit represented 60% of the total in 1984 and as a percentage of
GDP it increased to 13% in 1984 as compared to 9% in 1974. The fiscal
position has improved since, with increased revenues and restrained
spending, so that the deficit was reduced to 8.2% of GDP by FY85, an
improvement, though still above target levels. Improving expenditure
control is a key element to continuing Malawi's economic recovery.
Inflation has been steady at approximately 10% since 1981.
9.        Given Malawi's early stage of development, foreign capital
inflows, especially of a public nature, have been important in development
financing. In the pre-recessionary period (1969-79), foreign savings
financed approximately half of domestic investment. During the recession
(1980-81), public and orivate capital inflows were used to maintain
consumption levels, and domestic savings fell, Since 1981, domestic
savings have been increasing, while private inflows have virtually ceased.
Public transfers continue, financing approximately 50% of all investment,
much of this from World Bank Group loans and credits. Grants and bilateral
transfers have declined from past levels, and have not kept pace with
Malawi's needs.
10.       Initially, the country attempted to ameliorate the economic
downturn of 1979-1980 by increased external borrowing, mostly on commercial
terms, in order to maintain import levels and thus production, employment
and consumption. It soon became evident that with increasing inflationary
pressures and fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria, more stringent
adjustment efforts were needed. The Government, therefore, launched a
stabilization effort designed to reduce short-term fiscal and balance of
payments disequilibria and a structural adjustment program designed to
improve efficiency of resource use and ensure that positive growth of per
capita income can be reestablished and sustained over the medium and
longer-term within the context of a manageable balance of payments current
account deficit. The structural adjustment program is broad-based; aimed
at encouraging diversification of production and exports, improving
performance of productive sectors, rehabilitating, restructuring and
otherwise strengthening key development institutions, and improving
resource mobilization and allocation in the public sector.
11.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a standby program for SDR 22
million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15% in April 1982.  The
other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net domestic assets
of the batuking system and on net credit to the Government and a limit on
government external commercial borrowing.  The standby was implemented
satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new multi-year
program. A three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in September



-4-
1983 and, except for a six-month interruption in late 1984-early 1985, it
has been implemented successfully so far. As part of the Extended Fund
Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 12% in
September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies in January 1984.
Since January of 1984, the kwacha has depreciated more than 30% against the
dollar, including a 15% devaluation in March 1985.
12.       The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the
Government's program was made in June 1981, for US$45 million. After
initial difficulties, good progress was made in implementing the
Government's adjustment program. Additional funds were allocated to the
agricultural sector, certain agricultural prices were adjusted, public
utility tariffs were increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed, with
sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The second
tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the country's
efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional transport
routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export products.
Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account deficit to
11.3% of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for FY1983 to 9% of GDP,
and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
13.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by SAL II and approved by the Board in December 1983. The
program builds upon the reforms of SAL I, focussing on measures to improve
the mobilization and management of resources, to strengthen key
institutions, and to upgrade the performance of the puJlic sector.  The
program has been successful in achieving most of its objectives. Among the
achievements of the program have been (a) increased smallholder export
production following an increa6e in price incentives; (b) increased
industrial production and investment incentives resulting from a program of
price decontrols; (c) increased domestic energy production; (d) a
strengthening of the financial position of key public and private
enterprises; and (e) a reduction in the budgetary and balance of payments
deficits. Efforts to improve the control and allocation of public
expenditures and to reduce the overall size of Government have been slow,
but steps in the right direction have been taken. While the economy has
grown well in 1983 and 1984, prospects are for continued economic
difficulties and the need for continued adjustment to balance of pavments,
fiscal and transport constraints.
14.       An IDA Credit for USS30 million equivalent and a USS 40 million
equivalent African Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment
Operation were approved by the Board on December 19, 1985. The program is
expected to encourage productivity and efficiency, diversify the export
base and promote exports, strengthen the Government's policy making
capability, and improve the performance of development institutions. The
Government is expected to take action, inter alia, to reduce subsidies,
strengthen its policy and planning units, reduce parastatal deficits, and
rationalize the role of the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation.



- 5 -
15.       By the end of 1984, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled USS741 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over USS130 million,
equivalent to over 40% of exports of goods and services. This compares to
a level of about 10% in the mid-1970s. A second year of rescheduling was
agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service ratio to 26.7%
in 1983. The Government has indicated that it will not be asking for any
further rescheduling, and the debt service ratio is expected to remain at
about 40X in 1985 and 1986 before falling to less than 25% in 1990.
Because of this high debt service ratio, commercial bank borrowing will
have to remain sharply curtailed and the balance of payments gap should be
closed by concessionary financing. Similarly, constraints on local
borrowing would indicate the need for local cost financing to be provided
by donors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
16.       Over the past 20 years, Malawi has received 35 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit, totalling about US$493 million and 9 Bank loans
totalling US$107 million, of which 2 were on third window terms. Malawi
has also received one African Facility Credit totalling US$40.0 million
equivalent. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on third window terms
in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. Of the Bank
Group assistance, some US$165 million (27%) was for agriculture, US$108
million (18%) for education, US$114 million (19%) for roads, US$128 million
(21%) for structural adjustment, US$39 million (7%) for power, USS1
million (2%) for water, and the balance of US$35 million (6%) for health,
development finance, technical assistance, and urban housing. For FY86, a
credit of USS11.6 million equivalent for an Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project, a US$30.0 million equivalent IDA Credit and a
US$40.0 million African Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment
Operation, and a US$7.6 million loan for an Industrial and Agricultural
Credit Project, have so far been approved. IFC's equity participations and
lending commitments in Malawi total about US$25.8 million and include
investments in textiles, sugar, a Development Finance Corporation
(INDEBANK), tourism, and the manufacture of alcohol from molasses. In
addition, a USS0.5 million equity subscription and US$1.8 million loan
investment in the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries United were
approved in August 1984, but are not yet signed. On September 23, 1985, an
IFC investment to finance the first leasing and finance company was
approved. Annex II contains a Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations
as of September 30, 1985.
Bank Lending Strategy
17.       During the next five years, Bank group assistance will focus on
helping Malawi restructure its economy, especially in the areas of improved
agricultural productivity and dealing with the transport problem. Focus
will also be given to strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of
Government and other development institutions. Bank group assistance will
also address Malawi's pressing needs in the area of human resource



- 6 -
development, including the issues associated with a population growth rate
of 3.2%, amnng the highest in the world. Project lending will complement
the Government's structural adjustment program and will include support for
Government investments in health ana population, water supply,
transportation. education and agriculture.
18.       The Bank Group's economic and sector work will continue to build
an analytical base for discussions with the Government on key development
issues. In agriculture W.e have concluded a study on diversification and
the steps needed to help broaden the export base of the economy; a study of
the question of land utilization and what can be done to improve the
productivity of this scarce resource is underway, as are project-funded
studies on livestock, smallholder irrigation and management and training in
the Agriculture Ministry. The transport sector report which deals with
external transport constraints has been completed. In the social sectors,
we have completed a study of the dynamics of population growth, its
implications for the economy and the recommended development assistance
strategy for the sector. In education a project-funded study will review
the training needs in the economy with special emphasis on the agriculture,
health and transport sectors. A Public Sector Investment Review has
recently been carried out. These studies will provide the basis for
helping Malawi develop appropriate sectoral strategies and investment
programs. Further studies expected to be carried out in the near future
include a special study on the institutional aspects of development which
will look at shortcomings in the Government's institutions and bureaucratic
system which have led to some of the structural weaknesses in the economy.
A study of the financial system will also be carried out.
19.       A Consultative Group meeting was held in January 1986 with the
objective of improving donor coordination and increasing the level of
resources needed to support Malawi's adjustment process. The Country
Economic Memorandum planned for FY87 will concentrate on the long term
constraints to Malawi's development (population, agricultural land
pressure, etc.).
Disbursements
20.       The levels of disbursements for Malawi, including program
lending, were as follows: in 1982, US$70.1 million; in 1983, USS33.2
million; in 1984, USS58.2 million; and in 1985, USS46.4 million.
Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi have generally
been good and compare favorably with other countries in the region and even
on a Bank-wide basis. During the period FYBO-85, the disbursement rate on
loans and credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of non-project lending)
averaged about 26% per annum, significantly higher than the Eastern Africa
Regional average of 19% and the Bank-wide average of about 21%.



-7-
Project Implementation
21.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
The Audit and Project Completion Reports underscore Malawi's sound
development record and progress in extending nationwide the benefits of its
investments. However, the Third National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
project and the Fifth Highways Project have experienced moderate problems
due to inadequate budget provision and management shortcomings. Efforts
have been made to allocate sufficient budgetary resources for these
projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY SECTOR
22.       Agricultural production in Malawi is based on both smallholder
and estates farming. While smallholders account for the vast majority of
land and output, the estates produce the main export crops of tea, tobacco
and sugar. In the smallholder sub-sector, maize production recently
increased significantly, stimulated by higher producer prices. Estate
production increased rapidly through the early 1980's but has recently been
adversely affected by international price fluctuations, as well as higher
transport costs.
23.       The major problems in agriculture include limited availability of
appropriate technology for smallholders, an inadequate extension service,
a lack of a practical research base, and until recently, poor price
incentives for farmers. The estate subsector has a shortage of experienced
managers and a shortage of credit for medium and long term investments.
24.       The Government has been attempting to provide a growth climate
for both smallholder and estate production in order to support its overall
strategy of maintaining self-sufficiency in food staples while at the same
time expanding agricultural exports and improving rural incomes. Since the
end of the 1970's, the Government's National Rural Development Program
(NRDP) has provided a wide range of services to the smallholder sector. By
1984, 80% of the smallholder subsector was under NRDP. Most recently, with
IDA assistance, the Government has been focussing on improving the national
agricultural extension system, strengthening the agricultural research
base, pro-iding additional financial resources to the estate sub-sector,
establishing smallholder price incentives and reducing subsidies on
agricultural inputs.
The Forestry Subsector
25.       Forest land covers an area of 4.7 million hectares.  The "miombo
(typical indigenous) woodlands are the most extensive forest variety and
the major source- of fuelwood and fine timber for panels and furniture. By
type of management, Malawi's forest area is divided into gazetted forest
reserves, 21% of total forest area; forests on Customary land, 57%; natural
parks and game reserves, 21X; and industrial plantations, 1%. Gazetted
forest reserves are protected by the Forestry Department and wood cutting
is licensed. Forests on Customary land are a major source of fuelwood and



- 8 -
poles and are subject to excessive depletion. In April, 1985 the Forestry
Department took over responsibility from the Ministry of Local Government
for protection of these forests; however the traditional authorities still
have official jurisdiction over these lands.
26.       The Forestry Department is part of the MAnistry for Forestry and
Natural Resources and manages public forest resources. It is currently
being reorganized to include three main divisions: (a) the Forest
Development Division responsible for establishing timber plantations,
protecting forest resources, and providing radio and fire protection
services; (b) the Forestry Extension Division, responsible for extension
services and implementation of wood energy projects; and (c) the Forestry
Support Services Division, responsible for research, training, surveys and
planning.
27.       There is a substantial gap between the demand for fuelwood and
its sustainable supply, which is being met by the rapid depletion of the
country's indigenous forest resources. The depletion of forest resources
is caused by uncontrolled exploitation of indigenous forests on Customary
land as well as the low stumpage rate charged for commercial fuelwood.
Until recently, the average official stumpage rate for commercial fuelwood
was M4K 1.80 per m3 of stacked wood compared with an estimated average
production cost of MK 10.2 per m3. This rate was increased in March, 1986
to MK 2.70 per i3. Nonetheless there is still little incentive for
individuals to produce their own wood supply and the Government, as a major
producer of wood, cannot recover its investment costs (see para. 52). The
low price of fuelwood encourages excessive consumption and the Government
is unable to generate financial resources to implement effective measures
to manage utilization of forest products.
28.       After Independence the government's main forest policy was to
establish and operate mechanical wood processing industries and to plan an
export oriented large-scale pulp and paper mill. Large plantations were
established in the Viphya mountains and elsewhere to provide raw material
inputs for these industries. Since that time increased depletion of forest
areas around cities and villages has led the Government to recognize the
issues described above and therefore to make a fundamental change in its
forest policy, which now focusses on reducing the gap between fuelwood
production and demand by developing appropriate price and investment
incentives for stimulating private fuelwood production. The direct
Government role is to be concentrated on establishing the framework for
private wood production, managing environmentally fragile areas, and
protecting and controlling forests in Customary land. These policies
constitute an appropriate and farsighted response to the problem of
fuelwood depletion and loss of forest resources and would be supported bv
the proposed Bank project which is expected to be the Government's major
investment in the sub-sector over the next five years.



-9 -
Bank Strategy in the Sub-sector and Experience with Past Lending
29.       The first Bank group assistance to the forestry subsector in
Malawi was Credit 992-MAI (US$13.8 million) under the First Wood Energy
Project signed In 1980. The project provides for (a) the establishment of
a national network of 88 nurseries which would produce about 9 million
seedlings a year for sale to farmers; (b) the establishment of 12,900 ha.
of Government fuelwood and pole plantations; and (c) the strengthening of
the Wood Energy Division, including the setting up of an Energy Studies
Unit in the Forestry Department.
30.       As part of SAL III, the Bank has financed a Technical Assistance
Project (CR. 1428-MAI signed January, 1984), which includes a provision for
technical assistance to help establish an Energy Unit in the Economic
Planning and Development Department as well as to improve the efficiency of
tobacco curing technology and thereby reduce fuelwood consumption. In
addition a Wood Industries Restructuring Project (Loan 2486-MAI, US$6.4
million, signed in 1984) is designed to further the rehabilitation of the
wood processing industry and the conversion of the Forest Industries
Department into a Wood Industries Corporation.
31.       In general implementation of the First Wood Energy Project has
been successful and project objectives have been met. In particular the
Government has exceeded appraisal targets for establishment of fuelwood
plantations. The project has also been successful in establishing and
staffing a Wood Energy Division and an Energy Studies Unit. However, the
farmer tree planting program has reached only 60% of its targets. The
project is scheduled to be completed December, 1986.
32.       The project's lack of success in encouraging farmer tree planting
is a result of the low stumpage rate for fuelwood and the easy access to
free wood on Customary lands, which reduced the incentive for farmers to
grow their own wood supply even though seedlings were provided at a highly
subsidized price. The experience of the project has been directly
incorporated into the proposed project, which provides a comprehensive
policy package of price and other incentives for private wood planting.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       In July, 1984, the Government of Malawi requested that the Bank
consider financing a second phase project as part of a long-term
forestry-wood energy program. The Forestry P partment assisted by the FAO
Cooperative Program as well as by Bank staff carried out preparation work
in 1984 and 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 10 to
14, 1986. The Malawian Delegation was led by Mr. J. R. Phiri, Deputy
Secretary, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5914-MAI) is
being circulated separately.  A loan and project simmary is given at the
beginning of this report and a supplementary project data :heet is provided
in Annex III.



- 10 -
Objectives and Components
34.       The objective of the Project is to reduce the gap between
sustainable fuelwood supply and demand by (i) implementing policy
instruments to encourage private tree planting on a national basis; (ii)
increasing fuelwood production through tree planting by smallholder farmers
and through establishing a limited number of Government plantations; and
(iii) reducing fuelvood consumption by introducing more efficient charcoal
kilns and stoves for urban households. The project would include
components to support institutional development, wood production, wood
conservation, and research and training, as described below, and would be
implemented over a seven year period. Its most significant features are
policy changes relating to wood pricing, forestry extension and revenue
collection, the provision of incentives for tree planting, and a
redefinition of the Government's role in fuelwood production. Because of
the innovative nature of a number of these policies and programs, the
project would provide for annual reviews of progress as well as an
intensive mid-term review which would identify any needed corrections or
revisions in the policy package.
35.       Institutional Development.  The project would support the
establishment of 27 Area Control Units (ACU's) in twelve priority districts
experiencing severe forest depletion. Each unit would be responsible for
managing forests and forestry utilization in its area. The ACU's would
charge royalties for all commercial wood activities. However, wood
collected in head loads forsubsistence would continue to be free of
charge. Twenty-five percent of the revenue collected on forest products
from Customary land would be given to the traditional authorities and
forest personnel would be given training in extension methods and in rural
sociology. The project would also provide for establishment of 17 Revenue
Collection Posts (RCP's), which would be set up at major transport roads
into Blantyre, Lilongwe, and other selected urban centers. These posts
would be complementary to the ACU's and would charge royalties on all
commercial wood in trucks which have by-passed the ACU system. Evasion of
these checks would be difficult, since truck transport would be the only
feasible means of transporting large quantities of firewood to urban
areas. A condition of loan effectiveness would be preparation by the
Government of administrative regulations and procedures as well as related
accounting programs for revenue collection and the provision of tree
planting incentives which would be acceptable to the Bank (see also para.
39).
36.       The project would provide for the establishment, on a pilot
basis, of nine forest extension units which would work with the
Agricultural Extension service to provide technical assistance for farmers
planting fuelwood trees. The project would further provide for the setting
up of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which would evaluate the project on
an ongoing basis and therefore permit corrective measures to be taken where
needed. This unit would also be responsible for progress reports, periodic
reviews, and preparation of a Project Completion Report. A Planning Unit
would compile basic resource data, formulate objectives, set priorities,
and prepare work plans and budgets for the Project. In addition, existing



- 11 -
units would be strengthened through provision of equipment, vehicles,
training, and technical assistance. The qualifications, experience and
terms of reference of the heads of the Forest Extension, Monitoring and
Evaluation and Planning Units would be satisfactory to the Bank and they
would be appointed not later than September 1, 1986.
37.       Wood Production.  The project would aim at encouraging private
tree planting directly by providing temporary investment incentives,
seedlings, and advisory services, as well as indirectly by increasing
stumpage fees to cost recovery level. Specifically, with the improved
Incentive scheme In place the expected demand for seedlings would justify
the establishment of 60 new retail nurseries and the upgrading of 10
existing temporary nurseries. Each nursery's seedling production would
start at 50,000 per year and the nurseries would be upgraded to permanent
status depending on demand. The initial sale price to farmers of seedlings
would be one tambala per seedling compared to production costs of five
tambala and seed packages would be provided free of charge. Two additional
Government plantations totaling 6,00n hectares, to be located in the
vicinity of Lilongwe and in the foothills of the Mulanje plateau, would be
established, in line with the Government's new policy to have a direct role
it fuelvood production only in environmentally fragile areas and in areas
already gazetted as forest reserves. One hundred ten ha. in demonstration
woodlots would be established to demonstrate the potential growth of
various species as well as planting techniques.
38.       A study would be undertaken to determine the feasibility of
establishing a private company to provide tree planting services to the
tobacco estates. The study would, inter alia, review the needs,
requirements, and alternative supply possibilities of the tobacco estates
for fuelwood.
39.       In order to encourage tree planting, incentives would be provided
to farmers as a means of making tree planting financially attractive. The
incentives would be in the form of cash payments to farmers for each tree
surviving two years after planting or of some other combination of payment
in cash or in kind to be determined by the Forestry Department. The
incentive plan would be subject to annual review by the Bank and the
Government to determine whether and how it should be modified in accordance
with market and other conditions and as stumpage rates increase. The
Forestry Department to date has an excellent record of honesty and
dedication. However, the Government would establish regulations and
procedures acceptable to the Bank to ensure efficient management of the
incentive plan (see also para. 35). The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
would regularly review these as well as other payment mechanisms and
propose corrections where necessary.
40.       Wood Conservation.  The project would support the implementation
of two conservation programs -- the development of a fuel-efficient
charcoal production process and the introduction of fuel-efficient
household stoves. The savings in fuelwood resulting from the widescale
adaptation of each of these methods would be 1OZ for charcoal production
and 25-40% for stoves. The charcoal component would Include a program to



- 12 -
demonstrate the use of efficient kilns and wood handling methods, followed
by evaluation and proposals for commercial production. The stove component
would involve the establishment of pilot production units, establishment of
a small extension capability in the Forestry Department, training of
artisans, and provision to local artisans of basic materials and tools
necessary for commercial production. The stove technology to be introduced
under the project is well established elsewhere in Eastern Africa and no
major problems are foreseen in its adaptation to Malawi. A Charcoal
Production Unit would be set up and a head of the unit whose
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference would be acceptable to
the Bank would be appointed by September 1, 1986.
41.       Support Services.  Provision would be made for technical
assistance, incremental operating costs, and equipment to the Forestry
Research Institute of Malawi (FRIM), which would carry out a wood energy
research program concentrating on soil surveys, fertilizer, species, and
other trials, disease control, genetic improvement, and fuelwood supply
strategies. The preparation of a detailed research program, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for the research
component of the project. In addition, the Malawi College of Forestry,
which provides technician level training, would be rehabilitated and
dormitories would be provided for women who would be admitted to the
program for the first time and would be expected to account for about 15%
of enrollment. Training of forestry guards, nurserymen, and patrolmen, as
well as short term overseas fellowships, would be provided. A detailed
training program acceptable to the Bank would be prepared by September
1, 1986.
Proj ect Implementation
42.       As noted above, ACU's and RCP's, Extension Units, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit, and a Planning Unit would be set up under the
project. Training would be provided by the Malawi College of Forestry, and
FRIM would carry out a wood energy research program. In order to carry out
its new responsibilities, the Forestry Department is being reorganized
(para. 26). The head of the newly created Forestry Extension Division
would also be the Project Coordinator. Ris appointment would be a
condition of loan effectiveness and his qualifications, experience and
terms of reference would be acceptable to the Bank.
Project Costs
43.       Total Project costs are estimated at MK37.7 million (US$19.6
million), of which MK15.9 million (USS8.4 million) or about 42%, represents
foreign exchange costs. Details of Project costs are provided in the cost
estimate table in the project summary. Project base costs are estimated at
prices as of January, 1986. A physical contingency of 10% for civil works,
furniture, and equipment is included. A physical contingency of 15% for
the small farmer incentive payments (para. 39) is also included because of



- 13 i
uncertainties about the number of trees /:o be planted by farmers as well as
their survival rate. All other componei*ts have no physical contingency
provision. Price contingencies are as tollows: for local costs, 11% for
1986; 102 for 1987; and 9% thereafter; ;for foreign exchange costs, 7.5% for
1986; 8% for 1987 through 1990; and 52 for 1991 and 1992. In view of the
gap between domestic and foreign inflation rates, the exchange rate is
assumed to adjust so as to maintain purchasing power parity. The total
price contingencies amount to about 29% of Project base costs. Taxes are
negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties and
sales taxes.
44.       Project costs provide for a total of 90 person months of
long-term consultancies and 41 person months of short term consultancies
for an estimated total base cost of US$1.7 million. The Project would also
provide about NK5.0 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) including
contingencies to cover salary expenses of incremental local staff.
Financing Plan
45.       Details of Project financing are provided in the Project
summary. The proposed Bank loan of US$16.7 million would cover 85% of
total Project costs, including 100% of foreign and 74% of local costs. The
Government of Malawi would cover 15% of project costs, or US$2.9 million.
The Government contribution would cover incremental recurrent costs on an
increasing percentage basis as follows: 15Z for the first US$1.8 million
of recurrent cost expenditures; 30% of the next US$3.0 million; and 50% of
the remaining US$3.6 million of expenditures. Funds generated by the
implementation of the forest revenue collection system would be sufficient
to meet the Government contribution.
Procurement
46.       Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines and is summarized below:
Procurement Method 1/
Total
Project Element                  ICB     LCB      Other    N.A.   Cost
Civil Works                              2.0       0.5              2.5
(2.0)1/   (0.5)           (2.5)
Vehicles, Machinery, Equipment,
Furniture, and Materials        3.6    0.7       0.1              4.4
(3.6)  (0.7)     (0.1)            (4.4)
Training, Tech. Assistance                         2.8              2.8
(2.8)           (2.8)
Incentives                                                 1.6      1.6
(1.6)   (1.6)
Operating Cost                                             8.3      8.3
(5.4)   (5.4)
Total                    3.6      2.7       3.4     9.9    19.6
(3.6)   (2.7)     (3.4)   (7.0)  (16.7)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.



4.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1
- 14 -
47.       Orders for vehicles, machinery, equipment, furniture, and
materials for amounts of US$100,000 or more would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB); orders for such goods below
US$100,000 would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank; these would not exceed US$800,000
in the aggregate. Items for such goods costing less than US$30,000 would
be procured under local shopping procedures, with a minimum of three
quotations required; these would not exceed US$100,000 in the aggregate.
Because of their small size and scattered distribution, civil works would
not be suitable for ICB and would be constructed through LCB. Where civil
works are such that they would not attract even local contractors, force
account procedures would be used up to a maximum of US$500,000. Copies of
tender documents for contracts expected to cost in excess of US$100,000
would be submitted to the Bank for approval prior to the issuance of
invitations to bid and bid evaluations and recommendations for these items
would be submitted to the Bank for approval before contracts are awarded.
Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing
rate of duty, whichever is lower, for vehicles, equipment, machinery tools,
and spare parts.
Disbursement
48.       Proceeds from the proposed loan (US$16.7 million) would be
disbursed as follows: 100% for civil works, vehicles, equipment, incentive
payments to farmers for fuelwood trees, technical assistance, workshops,
studies, and training; and 65% on average for incremental recurrent
expenditures, as follows: 85% of the first US$1.8 million of expenditures;
70% of the next US$3.0 million; and 50% of the final US$3.6 million of
expenditures. Disbursements against contracts for purchase orders of less
than US$20,000 equivalent, expenditures for the incentive program, and
incremental recurrent expenditures would be supported by Statements of
Expenditures. All other disbursements would be made aginst full
documentation. In order to expedite disbursement of funds under the
project, a Special Account with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million would
be established and maintained in the project entity's name in a commercial
bank and would be replenished by the Bank in accordance with agreed
procedures. Establishment of the Special Account would be a condition of
disbursement for the project. Disbursements would be completed over a
seven year period. The schedule of disbursements, which is found in the
Project Summary, is based on the experience of the first project and on the
project implementation schedule and coincides with the standard
disbursement profile for Malawi.
Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       Detailed annual reports covering implementation of the project
and annual budgets for the ensuing year would be prepared and submitted to
the Bank. The Energy Unit would carry out an annual survey on fuelwood
prices and production costs, which would provide the basis for determining
the annual increase of stumpage rates. In view of the innovative character
of the Project and the uncertainties related to untried Project elements
such as the revenue collection, extension, and incentive programs, the



- 15 -
semi-annual progress reports of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
focus on the performance of these project elements, and a full-scale
mid-term review would be undertaken after three years of project
implementation to identify any necessary revisions or corrections in the
policy package.
Auditing
50.       The audited accounts, including the statements of expenditures,
together with the auditors' reports, would be submitted to the Bank within
nine months of the end of each financial year. Experience with the first
wood energy project has shown that adequate audits have been produced and
that a satisfactory system for financial management and control has been
established.
Production and Prices
51.       Total fuelwood production under the project is estimated at
approximately 230,000 m3 annually. Average annual production would
represent about 6% of the current estimated annual fuelwood deficit. The
increase in prices envisaged is expected to establish the conditions for
additional spontaneous planting of fuelwood trees and reduction in
consumption which would further reduce the fuelwood deficit.
52.       Policies to make individuals bear the costs of wood consumption
and enjoy the benefits of wood production would be established. The major
instrument to achieve this objective would be a rise in the stumpage rate
coupled with improved revenue collection and forest control systems to
restrict commercial access to free wood. The ultimate objective is to
establish prices which cover replacement costs and hence provide an
incentive for private production of fuelwood. To this end, the Government
raised the stumpage rate by 50% to MK2.70/stacked m3 in March 1986.
Thereafter the price is expected to rise by an average 15% per year in real
terms until the average replacement cost has been reached by 1996.
The Government has provided assurances that it would implement this
schedule of price increases and would make efforts to accelerate the
increases so as to cover estimated replacement costs by the end of 1992.
In order to compensate for the impact of the present price distortions on
the profitability of establishing woodlots by individual farmers, seedlings
would be sold at the rate of one tambala per seedling (compared to the
estimated cost of five tambala per seedling) and incentives consisting of
cash payments for each tree surviving two years after planting, or of
similar payments in kind, would be provided by Forestry Extension agents to
farmers. This incentive payment is necessary to encourage framers to plant
fuelwood trees in spite of the low stumpage rate, but would be reduced and
ultimately phased out as the price of fuelwood approaches actual
replacement costs.
Project Benefits
53.       The economic analysis is based on the provision of the same
quantity of fuel through the alternatives of (a) producing charcoal from



- 16 -
the Viphya Forests, (b) continuing unrestricted exploitation of existing
natural forests, or (c) using other sources of energy such as kerosene.
It takes into account the increased transportation costs for alternatives
(a) and (b), includes an estimate of the possible losses in agricultural
productivity because of environmental destruction, and includes all project
institutional development and support service costs as well as incentive
payments. On this basis the overall economic rate of return is 26%
compared to kerosene, 13% compared to use of Viphya charcoal, and 10%
compared to depletion of the national forests. The 10% return is probably
an underestimate since the project would provide additional unquantified
benefits in the form of institutional development and policy changes with
long-term effects.
54.       The economic rate of return, compared to forest depletion, for
the following project components, not including institutional costs, is as
follows: government plantations (19% of project cost), 23%; and
smallholder woodlots (15% of project costs), 43%. Because of their pilot
nature, economic returns have not been calculated for the charcoal and
stove improvement components.
55.       Project benefits include the establishment of a total of 17,000
hectares, producing approximately 230,000m3 of fuelwood annually. These
woodlots and plantations would help to lessen depletion of natural
woodlands as well as protect soil and water resources. The project would
also provide over 3.3 million man-days of employment for laborers.
Finally, the introduction of more efficient charcoal production and stove
tec'inologies would result in substantial wood savings.
56.       The  project would provide long term benefits for the poor, whose
costs of energy would be lower because fuelvood production would be put on
a sustainable basis and because the adoption of fuel-efficient stoves would
lower household energy expenses. In the short term, increases in the
stumpage rate would have little or no impact on the rural poor, who have
access to free fuelwood. These increases could result in at most a real
income decline of 5% for the urban poor, but the effect would be mitigated
by the above mentioned long term benefits.
57.       Average annual incremental budgetary allocations for the project
would amount to NK4.8 million. The gross revenue accruing to the
Government for wood cut on Government plantations, forest reserves and
Customary lands is expected to reach over MK8 million by the sixth year of
project implementation. Thus, from the budgetary point of view, the
project would be self-financing.
Project Risks
58.       The principal risk of the project lies in the implementation of a
comprehensive and new policy package, which includes increases in stumpage
rates, establishment of new forestry extension and revenue collection
systems, and temporary incentives for tree planting. If one of these



- 17 -
elements fails to be implemented, then the project may be unable to achieve
its objective of increased private production of fuelwood. The Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit would therefore review the implementation of each of
these components on an annual basis, and a full scale midterm review would
be undertaken after three years of project implementation, to identify any
corrections and revisions in the policy package which would be needed.
There are also risks that collection of royalties at ACU's and RCP's as
well as cash payments to farmers with surviving trees may pose a difficult
administrative burden and also expose staff to pressures for
misappropriation of funds. However, the Forestry Department to date has an
excellent record of honesty and dedication. In addition, provision for
training, staff rotation, cooperation with other authorities and regular
monitoring by the above Unit would be made to help minimize these risks.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clauisen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1986



- 18 -
l ALE  SA                                         PGE I
LAL- mCL IWICAT  DATA   E
ucmn~~~~                  CUB?ENI     -w    mummy)i .LBMB I
(MRICA NT DOLE Kb
b           = TjUC b      LOUICOIR U  RC           KOMV  a 
inaL        maLb.                   SOM   0FP SANARA     AMCk S. OIP SAARA
AMEL Cin   E.                                                                                ,,
TOTAL                             118.5       Rise5       ts.
ARC.I,ILTUAL                       37.9        39.5       41.7
Cra cas Con)                           ..          ..       210.0              238,                    1063.3
m" u s.aens
(CILOafb or OUL eqVu u)             ..         33.0       46.0              62.3                    531.5
70e1m -N nra STAIISTES
VOSUL&flOfl.KID-Io CU01I3A5)   3529.0        S313.0     6626.0
0U3*   OFOULATlON CS Of TOTAL)      4.4         6.4       11.1               20.1                     32.0
PMATIoE IN Uut 20C0 (mu.)                               11.4
STATIOIRT POPULATON (NELL)                              38.0
POPULAno U                                               2.0
PtOPUAIO  DEWIT
PaR SQ. Ul.                      29.8        38.1       55.9               33.2                     *5.1
a  SQ. KM. AR. IAUD              93.1       114.3      154.1              112.J                    124.8
POUULATOAGE *3 ERDCTOIZ CZ)
o-L4 US                         43.5        46.8       47.1               46.0                     45.6
15-4 us                          52.0        30.8       48.9               50.6                     51.5
65 A3D ADM                        2.4         2.4        4.0                2.9                      2.7
POU LAowm 0391 IA  CZ)
TOTAL                             2.0         2.5        3.0                2.J                      2.9
URANS                             4.3         6.2        7.0                6.4                      5.1
CRm  nSM   S CMTOs)                56.0        56.a       54.0              47.2                     47.0
CUDE nAT  MU  cm   fawsS)          29.7        28.0       23.0               17.8                     15.0
GROSS EWUCTON RaTE                  3.8         3.8        J.8                3.3                      3.z
PANEL! PUIANI
ASPTOS. AERAL (TUaS)
gSn  (U OF HARRIS VOaS)           .. ..                  1.0 ft             3.3                      4.4
FMAm D m    nxz
ES oP Mm PRa. nP R CADET
(1969-71-100)                      90.0       91.0        96.0              83.3                     82.9
rEM cAmr uurPLT OF
CAour  CS OF RQUIqs lMTuS)      91.0        M.0         M.0              37.7                      ".s
wawmu (CCIAN  a VW)              62.0        71.0       68.0               51.9                    33.4
OF IIIUMIDAL A10 NIE            13.0        19.0       19.0 Ic            18.7                     16.5
anlD (CaS 1-4) dA?E RAIE           32.7        50.3       38.0              23.1                     16.6
OLSM
LIPE SxCT. AT S111 (UM)            36.3       40.0        44.2              47.8                     52.0
iNPN Dma. mu CPU  Umm)            207.0       193.5      164.0             119.5                    108.8
ACCESS TO SANE ATE (fle)
TOrAL                             ..          ..        41.0 id           27.1                     42.4
uA                                ..          ..        77.07             63.5                     67.3
RURAL                             ..          ..        37.01            19.3                     33.3
ACCUS TO   RETA DIWOSAL
Cs Ci POPUAtIE)
TOLA                              ..          ..        83.0 /d           26.3                     28.9
URNS                              ..          ..       100.o 7            63.4                     37.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        l1.0              20.8                     20.7
POPUMAION UR PUEZCIX            36380.0    38430.0    409.0 is           27901.7                  11791.7
PM. 1U KMUEC lUEON              13220.0 /f  9030.0      3830.0 f          33.4                     2439.
rop, aM ImInTL aD
TOTAL                           890.0       650.0      740.0 1'          1273.6                   981.1
URNSI                           120.0 if    160.0       SO.0 7           428.2                    368.3
RURAL                          1310.0       900.0    .14s0.0.  j        3292.5                   4371.9
AUCSSIONS PM..EPITAL R.                        32.1       39.0 f             ..                      27.2
AYERAGr SoI OF HOUEIOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..                 ..
AVRAC. NO. OF P.RSSS/RD.
nr                                ..          ..         .                  ..
RURNS..                                       1.7AL      ..
aU                               ..         ..          .                  ..
tZr s oA     W ILLINGI SITU SECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..
IURN                              ..         16.0 j      .....
a                                 ..          ..         .                   ..
Una



- 19 -
T A S L K 3A                                       PACK 2
MALAWI                 - SOCIAL _iDICATOE UATA SM l
IALAWII                              REVgERECE GROUPS (W1IIGSD AVCRACB) 
UOTS                     (MOST  SR ESTIATI) ^
1             ol  HRCCNT          LOW INCOME ArRtUC         MIdD  INC
96 1970b CSTINATr_b      SDOUTH UV SAHAItA     AVIIJUA S. o0  SAHARA
ADJUSTCD ENROLLMENT KATIOS
PRIMARYtI   TOTAL                   .         3b.0        62.0               67.8                      93.7
ImaL                     .         45.0        73.0               77.6                     IUU.O
FEMALE                             26.U        51.0              5.9                       83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   1.0         2.0         4.0               13.5                      17.3
MALE                     1.0        3.0          5.0              17.9                      25.0
FEMALE                  0.3         1.0         2.0                9.1                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ( OF SECONDARY)          23.6         2.9         2.9 d             13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        44.0        65 0 /             44.9                      41.1
SU:QifA~                           14.0       16.0        21.0 W274                                    25.5
co _surro
PASSENCR CARS/TIHOUSA   POP          1.6         2.2         2 4 ji             3.8                      20.8
RADIO RICEIVZRSITHOUSAND POP        21.6        23.5        44.8               55.8                     107 .
TV UECEIVERS/TMOUSAND POP             1.7                                       2.6                      20.d
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CEERMJL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PZR THWUSAND POPULATION                                     4 8                5.0                      38.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      0.3                      .                 0.5                       0.4
U8l ORUE
TOTAL LAOR PORCH (TIUIIS)         1621.0      1983.0      2751.0
FZMALZ (PERCENT)                  38.7        38.1        37.5               34.2                      36.2
AQIMULTURE (FERCENT)              92.0        89.0        86.0 /             77.5                      54 .5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0         4.0         5.0 A              9.7                      18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             45.9        43.9        40.9               39.3                      36.8
HMAE                              57.5        55.3        52.6               50.9                      47.1
FEMHAL                            34.8        32.9        30.8               28.1                      27.2
ECONOIC DPEZNDENCY RATIO             1.0         1.1         1.2                1.3                       1.3
1c30 DISTRImW
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED RU
*ICUS  5S or HOUSEEOLDS                       32.6 /a
RIG8ZST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS                     o506 6i
LOWEST 202 or HOUSEHtLDS                     10.4 Li
LWIIST 40S oF HOUSEROLDS                     21.5                             .
POPER!T SMT -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERM  INCOME
iLEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBM                                                     123.0 /c          15.5                      590.7
RURAL                                                     99.0 7-            95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIV  POVERTY DC0ME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     65.0 /c           113.1                     545.6
RURAL                                                     52.0 77            67.6                     201.1
ESTIMATED POP. 2ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVER  lNCODM  LESVL (Z)
URBAN                                                     25.0 /c            3b.6
RURLAL                             5.                      5 0. 7            61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a  The Foup werages for each Indicator are population-uighted aritbatic  ens. Covrage of countries
aeong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Uelaes otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" raf-r to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 ad  1971; and data for "most Recent Estieete  between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1980;  /e 1979; /f 1962; .L 1967; /b 1972; li 1978.
JUNE, 19b5



- 20 -
DEFNfiNMONS OF SOCUIL INDICATORS
Noag Although tbdate am drawn fraom soucesiudilyjudgd themost uthorialiveand rdebae b shoulso be noted thlt they may not be internationally
comparable becaue of the lack of standardied du otina and conept use by differem countri in colecting the dta. The data ar nonethel. ueful to
dscribe orden or magnitude. indiote trads, and chacrea  rwrtain major differe between countries.
The ren  groups are (1) the sae country goup of the subjet country and (2) a country group with somewhat high avergew income than the country
groupeorthe subet counry (caept for -High IncomeOil Expners' group where Middle Income North Arkansd Middle Eut" s hoen because ofstronger
socio-cultursl affiniti). In the reference group dat the avenges arc population weihted arittnetic mesans for each indicator and shown only when majority
of the countrie in  group ha data for that indicator. Slum the coveage ofcountries nog the indkatr depends on the avaIlabilty ordata and is not uniform,
caution must be eecided in reating avetas of one indicator to another. These aveags are only uful in comparing the value of one indicator at a tim among
the country sa referene groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude Birth Rare (perthouaad)-Number of live births in the year
Toed-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Deth Rate (per tobas)-Nuumber of deaths in the year
Agricultu-Estinate of agricultural area uswd temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodncdoa Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she cxperiencs
present age-specific fertility rales; usualy five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)CiNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World    Fassiljx Plauaiag-Acceprr, Amusi (thousauds)-Annual num-
Rank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1933 data.                          ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devices underauspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commcrcial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Faudly Planuinrg-Users (percent of anaried wsum)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothernal dec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Populatio  Mid-Year (tharsands)-As orJuly i; 1960.1970.  FOOD AND NUTRmON
and 1983 data.
UodeX of Food Producion Per Capita (1969-71-100) -Index of per
Urban Po ie  (pedceiffeaitis ef to)---Rato Of urban to total   capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population diffent dfinitions of urban areas may affect compar-mal feed and seed for agcultu. Food comodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. suprcane instead of sugar)
Populato  Projectios                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, puLses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infonnration on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenational migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capita Supply ofCaloris (percent ofrequfretseat-Cornput-
Stationary population- Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for norrnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacenent level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monmnrum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per CVita Supply of Prtein (granis per day)--Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiy of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimun allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of aaimal protein as an
Populati  Deasy                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; :961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per CapitaPtein Supply rom Aniad oad Nbc-Protein supply
Per sqfkm. agricultwra land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 19l645.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popdation Age Structure (perceut)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per thosJsdI-Number of deaths of
ingage(I5-64 years).and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percemar--otal-Annual growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total raid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (perce)-orban-Annual growth rates        Lifc Expectacy at Birth (ews)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 21 -
at the tim  of of its birth were to stay the smme throughout its lifc;  Pup& eacher Ratio - prinary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
fan4 M er'ft RNoe (per theasm) )-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching onc year of agc per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPInON
Aces te SVf WWw (pat of p_p tetd,)-W _4 inU, * d              Pasenger Curs (per thsmd p      npu  g eoe)-Passcnger cars comn-
Nid-Number of people (total, urban, ad rual) with reasonable  prime motor cars seating less than cight pesons, excludes ambul.
acces to safe waker mupply (indudes treated surface waters or  ances. hauses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncotaminated water such as that from protected  Radro Receier (per thousandpopaai-AlI types of rcivers
botehom   sprinsn and ustary wels) as percentages of thar rspec-  for radio broadcasts to general public pr thousand of populatioi;
tiye populations. In an urban area a publi fountain or stanldpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 20D meters from a house may be considered  *xlis   u   dio set was in countriesand in yar may
as being within reasonable acmm  of that house. In rural areas  rrt be   of radio sets was in effet; dita for rsent years may
reasonable acess vould inply that the housewife or nmmbers of the  not be compaable since most countries abolshed lng.
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRecres (per thaseudpophdrna)--TV rcoivers for broadcast
in fetching the familys water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicnsed TV
A        tcess eo mrel Dwaer p   of p opgetd, rl,             receivers in countnes and in years when registration of TV sets was
end r,rul-Numnber of people (total, urban, and rural; served by  in
excreta disposal as pecentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper C tcuado (per rhaamndpapnihom)-Shows tie aver-
Excret disposal may include the colcction and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appeas at least four times a week.
Pbp da x per ^Pysican-Population divided by number of pc-     Cinm  Ardal Attendnce per Capita p   Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at universty levd.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popadniaper NurAw Pcrs_x-Population divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
Rupulade. paW HospitaldBed-otal- when, gad nmPol-ftipulation  Tatea Labor Farce (thonsauds)-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban, and rual) divided by their respecivPe nulber Of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewiv.
hospital bedsavailable inrpublicand private, generalcandstie bieo  students, eac., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabitation enters. Hospitals gen  establishents  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pennanently staffed by at last one physician Establishments prov-  Femek (perear)-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custoial car are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include bealth and medical centers not perranently staffed  Agradure (percext)-Labor force in farning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of totai labor force. 1960. 1970 and 19P0
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of nedical facilities.                                        Industry (percent)-Labor fore in mining, construction. manu-
Admssios per Hosta Bed-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electicity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges fromn hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960, 1970 ar.d 1980 data.
Particpao Rane (pertc)--ttal mak, .djemalle-Particpation
HOUSING                                                       or acti,ity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Ar-g S-ze of Haseod (perss per honsehWd)-tora. arba,          as percentages of total, male and female popultion of all ages
and rxral-A househol cDnsists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
hiving quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statiscal purpose.   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per R.m-4otal urban, and rare-      Ecoo. Dependency Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64j.
occupied conventional dwellings, respectivdy. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parrs.                INCOME DLSTRIBUtMON
Pecte  of Dwd5aW wvith Earwitdy.-r, arban, and rura-          Percmage of Tota) Disposabl Income (both ia cash and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentil groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4=red Eaofit_   Ratis                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Phnary sool - total. make andfem -Gross tot. male and         levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollnent of all ages at the prmary levl as percentages of  Estmated Absolute Poverty lucome Leve (USS per capira)-arban
respectivc primary school-ge populations. Whilr many countres  aad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-l1 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus mssential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  EsW   Relaive Povertay  cewLentld (USS per capitaJ-urbaz
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and ruwal-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higlher cost of
Seconefy sdool - total, mae and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education reqWures at least four years of approved pr-  Estiiarted Populatio  Below Absoure olverty Income Level (fp-
mary insmuction; provides genral. vocational, or teacher training  crm)_r--r- and rul- Pe.cent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.R
ence course are generaDly exduded.
Vocaional Emirllmni (percent of seconday)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tiocs indude technical, industiaL or other progams which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
inxdepedently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 22 -
-X 1
irmMe 7
cmrw *Ptm now21 - cm*I
nu= - lmuc  -aca
Amum mud  ot (1)
T                        *1mtC at ai  -l)
19r          19      19- us  em      1g3   194           18    19B6   19t7   1918   119    J
YAML    AG
km_ dctle                   ID.3            -1.0   -5.1    2.5    4.4    7.6            3.3    3A       3.6    3.7    3.9    4.0
4d11W A                                    4.6    4.2    6.9    4.3   6.3             3.2    3.3    3.        3.5    3.6    3.7
1miutz                     217            -LI    -2.6    -A       4.1    Z.9          3       3.6    3.8    4.0    4.3    4.6
rw                        W590             4.2   -36       0.6    4.9    1.6           3.3    3.5    3.7    3.8    4.0    4.1
lOW S          -3.6   -4.3   -1.4    3.2    7.6           12.0    1.8    2.5    2.6    3.0        Ls
qmU,Wemm                     196O          -15.7  -3.1    2.1   14.7  -2S.              6.8    3.       2.8    3.9    4.3    6.9
F.,  of GUS                  3J.9           25.8  -19J    -6.7      7.1   20.3          1.9    5.3    5.0    5.4    5.1    411
1qocm of GUS                 3242           -9J   -249    -4.5   -46   -15.0           17.0    2.       2.6    2.7    3.7    3.8
ems .. tinc.m1I153.0                        -4.4     5     60.5   14.7   17.9         -53.1    17.6   35.0   21.2   13.2    1.
PMS
GP def(laOtw (1978.4                   100.6   10      1437   1J9.0  183.4        2M.4   218.    2L.  273.4   25.2   315.9
zad4   tmzOUMbw                          1.2317  L.134  0.9535  0.366 0.70W         0.5747  0.5555  0.525  0.5M5  n.       n.5
Seis of GD at lh*at Pd.i CZ)                           Au    huuu 1          CX)
(at          CD (t bat                                     t 1979 pda)
197    10   1975   1990                            1975-a       19O            115-10
-- d tle _eIt                                   I10.  100.   10        .0              IO5.6                      Ls        3.U
AhdtnIult    It factoF   at W              37.5  36.3  36.3   35.9                              Si          0.32      3.45
a Z at Ga at                        19.4   1S.5  17J   1.9                                4.7         0.55      3.95
Cdw      I                                     43.1  45.2  46.0   46.2                              5.9         2L56       373
n _ouuf                                          5.4   86.8  90.2   85.8                              5.0         0.20      4.06
Ctt_    t                                       31.6  25.5  17.0   17.4                               4.3       -1075        4.67
Etqoct GUS                                      2B.8  26.6  23.1   25.1                               8.7         3.4B      4.5
--it  S                                         5D.9   41.6  3D.3  2V.3                               3.2       -12.87       5.31
|m  *-ciu   awlu0                             12.6   8.4    5.9   12.4                               -         17.0        2.99
- I of CUP
1970/71  1975/76  191/B   19/83  198J3/8  191541
PE- -
O        -                                                 15.5    16.5    20.4    19.9    19.6        0.0
Owemt    -                                                 16.5    154      21.A    21.2    20.4    20.7
Sarpu (4) or dfL   C-)                                    -1.1      1.1   -15.9   -12.7   -10.8   -6.3
at.a   aqzu_hz                                             12.     12.9    11.3    11.4    10.1        7.6
huip Hflnd                                                 11.Z     8.8      6.8     9.5      8.5      5.2
1975-W   19105  iqLr9n
QI' udm uta                                               5.      3.72    4.01
(W pat o1t. pini  cm   )                                  1.9    o00      1.21
3mv  UMAPti Xd             CZ)                            6.1      2.22    2.62
-I=                                                       6.4     D.O       437
tb5111 inuIai                                             0.1    -0.75     0.37
hpt   --^tidt                                            -0       1.35     OA3
a n         m   IU      a at     catr
b/ p       y_a _mt  Mr    pim                                                                  Eastern and Southern Afic les Regon
qAt in t 1160 prd                                                                              October S, 1985



- 23 -
Pap1am    * 6452 - (dA4191. d _A)
or FM awits UYSA0 - (I623
e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~J                          -                     _~m11d
Amal &VW am CD3
(at  u      96  dcm)
(LIO Ns          k       O        bi                                           f*?Xte
Xmiar                a<zit pdx.")
194          1960    3198    156     133   19S4          1935    3616    I9W    38    31        36!0
1_C&SAM swut                305.1          22.9  -16.5    5.6    4.3   3.3            -4.0    4.5    5.        5.3    5.0    4.7
prm"7                     2B3.7         17.3  -19.5   -6.1    4.7   31.5            -1.5    4.5    5.0      5       4.9    4.5
I     _dm*~               21A           111.0    9.6  -2i6       Q5   14.1           4.0    4.0    4.5    5.0    6.0    7.0
1Adin    pt                  174.3          0.3  -17.1  -18.7    0.1  -14.              8.3    3.0     L7      3.0     34      3.3
Food                        5.          35.0   57.Z  -563   -11A  -30.7             14.3     .0    1.4    1.3    2.0    2A
Fet_m                      31.2         -66    -5.    -2.        1.7  -1.6           8.3    2.6    Z.7    2. Le             2.5
1diz.y ad eqd t            35.8          11.9  -51.3  -16.9   -35   -5.8             34      6.5    4.3     59      6.      6.1
0o11m                      91.5        -26.5   -64    -6A        2.5  -19.6          9.7     LI      2.2    2.1    2.3      23
*wet bidm lIm                               1.1   39.0    9.1   -1.5   34.4           -2ZL4    7.9    9.1    9.1    9.        9.6
1uAt prlm ldm                              21.5   16.9    7.6   23.5   29.2           -1.6     4.7    7.0    7A       7.6    7.5
1md of       1                            -17.0   19.0    1.3  -2D.5   4.1            -19.2    3.1    1.9    1.5       Li      L9
of . I       dlaM           T Wde Ca mama lam                                    CZ)
(at amt Pdow)                                        (at mek 1979 pdnu)
17    M0   195   1990                                   197540      15        1955-90
IaCm 180.0  100.0  10    100.                               9.6         27        5.0
umay                                   92.6  89.7  90.3  90.1                                      53          3.3       4.9
H=da_bmn                                7.4   10.3   9.7   9.9                                       A        -1.4       5.2
IV-01                                    100.  M10.0  1000  1o                                       -1.4       -9.4        3.1
a                                       4.9    7.3   5.6    5.2                                     0.9      -19.        l.6
-eDI..                                  9.1   13.9  18.2   17.9                                     8.3                  2.7
-bddmz ad qg ea                          2.5   34A   21.0  24.0                                     1.0      -15.1       5.9
rnmm                                    3LS   4.   55.2   52,9                                      4.5       -5A         2.2
a:   of Th& qith                Umz. of 2=6 amd                     $1a   of 7bl wfth
ln*stzSal (amttlE. (Z)         D1e.aqg  MCdm  CC) apnul Sgpluin   *PM= j/CZ)
1970     M75   M10              1910                             19705                    30
165.3   76.2    69.0           11.3     i0.3    7.0             23A         13.5         20
1ipt                                       56.7  64.       75.0           26.2     14.5    6.0             19.0        20.7         19.0
1/ ISk A   ir I _.       aDpizu  o.it
Eastern .d  Sauthe?U  Africa 1l1         n
October 5, 1985



- 24 -
ARM I
ftpantia    I 6452 (td-19B2, t1uss)
aE It  Opttaa  US$210 - (1982)
HARSh - E    l OF PX       CUlM. M L CAPrrAL AC 1
GilLU    USS at atnnit pdim)
Aesl                                          -      Paton
1979   1960   1961   1962  1963   1984                       1965   1986   1967   1966   1960     90
bMAU O PANS
Eiort of peit SW  stl                    353.5  349.6  32B.7 326.3  369.4                      293.0  327.2  371.6 423.7  483.4  551.3
Of dxtdu   whdm:dim fLb                 284.5  287.6  242.1 232.3  305.1                      23368  289.2  308.1  354.1  405.9  466.8
1qot of pa ad sevis                       626.3  504.6  474.7 483.8  414A                       40L.5  441.4  472.0  54.9  571.3  631.8
Of d_clc  Idrim     fob.                318.2  257.9  190.6 198.2  174.3                      185.0  199.5  219.3  242.8  270.0  39.9
Net t runfin                             16.4   21.1   20.1  12.7   10.3                      -13.7  -14.7  -15.7  -16.6  -80   -19.2
Cm        ant alan                      -256.4 -133.7 -1Z5.0 -144.2  -34.5                    -125.3 -128.9 -116.1 -10.9  -105.8  -99.
Privat dveact 1mgt                          -      -      -     -      -                          -
Officl pme idd                             50.0   46.2   36.3  29.5   24.4                       63.6   32.1   64.8   3.8   4.1   463
ILT 1m  (net,                             176.9   51.4   24.3  22.6   42.7                       42.5   95.1   75.1  123.4   75.4   92.9
OfiLcal                                 136.8   42.3   32.7  29.9   63.0                       75.5  119.7   86.9  129.4   71.1   79.3
Private                                  40.     9.1  -8.4  -7.3  -2D.3                       -33.0  -24.6  -11.9   -6.0    4.4   13.6
othet Ite                                  48.6   29.4   0.6  12.6   26.4                         6.2   13.0  -19.3  -16.8  -19.6  -19.1
Qi   In (smn-  - Incrase)                 -19.1    6.7   63.8  79.5  -59.0                       11.0  -11.4  -4.4  -35A       5.6  -19.9
Geow intrutla   metr                      79.7   57.0   32.3  26.5   69.9                       58.9   70.3   74.7  110.1  104.5  124.4
Pet intenmtlo,l renvs                     -40.7 -121.3 -148.0 -178.7  -S6.2                       -      -      -      -      -       -
GC. enertnves -       iqort                 1.5    1.4    0.8   0.7    2.0                        1.7    1.9    1.9    2.6    2.2    2.
WERBI tOPll AND Mr!1
ten DMiuiaesia                     172.1  211.3  173.5  109.6  94.9  153.4                       92.2  281.9  128J   214.3  155.5  173.0
OffidAl Ctl                       46.6   50.1   46.3   36.3  23.4   26.2                       30.0   32.1   34.3   35.8   39.3   43.1
Omadnel lam                       43.3   60.6   46.1   42.8  48.9  103.5                       46.3  123.1   55.4   93.4   50.1   55.3
WC                              16.8   17.7   11.6    5.4   1.8    5.3                        3.3    4.8    4.7    4.2    4.4    5.5
UR                              14.5   15.1   21.0   27.1  32.3   63.6                       33.3  110.5   41.9   79.0   33.8   36.1
OtInt                           12.0   27.8   13.5   10.3  14.8   14.6                        9.7    7.8    8.8   10.2   11.9   13.7
Nm-0,nmsaLo.u1 L2.2  10D.6   61.2   3D.5  17.6   23.7                                          15.9   26.7   39.0  864.1   66.1   75.6
official Export c t n8.9   28.2    3.4    1.2   6.7    4.8                                    4.4    6.6    8.2    9.4   10.0   10.7
Iva                             12.6    7.6   26.6   21.0   1.5    1.6                        4.0    7.4   12.9   49.7   25.7  23.9
ther ltutlIa   ral               5.1    6.9    3.0  . 0.7   2.0   16.0                        2.5    4.3    6.6    9.1   11.5   13.9
Fd.vate                         55.4   57.9   47.9    7.6   7.4    1.3                        5.0    8.4   11.3   15.9   18.9   221
Ennten    ebt
Debt  toutadig ad  Msbrag       718.5  636.8  726.6  770.1 807.8  8S4.4                      893.3  98.4  1032.9  11%.3  1227.1 1315.9
Offlidal                       547.1  413.4  485.6  544.2 594.1  707.2                      749.1  868.8  925.2 1054.6 1120.9 1196.1
Pdrvate                        171.4  225.4  241.0  225.9 213.7  177.2                      144.2  119.6  107.7  101.7  105.2  119.8
liusbse Debt                     171.4  171.2  203.8  18B.8 225.6  250.1                       32.6  363.2  399.8  427.9  496.9  559.5
Debt Seice
nta Servic ftpn        l         -43.5  -67.6  -684   11l.7 -5S.3  -B0.9                      -6.2  '93.0  -50.7  -86.0  -2.9  -84.0
Intb et                        -24.3  -34.6  -40.4  -320 -29.6  -30.6                       -33.0  -36.3  -30.8  -31.9  -3735   .9
IF Onqes and Ihodse             -6.0   -6.6  -13.9  -21.0 -18.9  -30.4                      -28.3  -35.1  -38.5  -32.5  -35.3  -31.0
Pyeuc as S bzor                   -      19.1   25.0   168B  17.9   21.9                        9A  23.4   21.7   20.3   17.1   15.2
Ahtq IeatemtRteGn h     o l (lp                                         3.0                       4.0    4.0    6.0    8.0    5.0    6.0
OEfical
Pd-t
Awcag  Neturity ot  -  I=* (1warz)                                     40J                       27.8   38.3   22.9   29.0  23.1   29.5
Officia
Private
An 2 of Debt Ottauding
at 3d of Decbr 31, 1983
Phority atar-a of debt maLtaidizi
Ibtitis dAe widtdn 5 y-rn                29.0
!bUitis die alibin 10 yan                44.1
taCt -eqt utr,rbhn  of debt a*tsw
Interest d. itldn finst yer               3.6
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
October 5. 1985



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                   Undis-
Credit No. Year  Borrower    Purpose               Bank      IDA    bursed
6 loans and 19 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96    224.64
Cr. 857-MAI  79             NRDP I                           22.00    3.04
Cr. 910-MAI  79             Education III                    14.50    1.03
Cr. 992-MAI  80             NRDP II                          13.80    4.00
Cr.1123-MAI  81             Education IV                     41.00   11.53
Cr.1183-MAI  82             NRDP III                          7.30    2.99
Cr.1272-MAI  82             Lil. Water Supply Eng.            4.00    1.56
Cr.1330-MAI  83             Education V                      34.00   27.49
Cr.1343-MAI  83             NRDP IV                          10.60    8.38
Cr.1351-MAI  83             Health                            6.80    4.11
Cr.1352-MAI  83             Smallholder Fert.                 5.00    0.16
Cr.1423-MAI  84             Highway V                        26.90a/ 19.20a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84      -      Highway V              18.00             17.96
Cr.1428-MAI  84             Tech. Assist. II                  1.50    1.10
Ln.2486-MAI  85             Wood Industries         6.40              6.04
Cr.1528-MAI 85              Urban Housing b/                 15.00   15.00
Cr.1549-MAI  85             Natl. Agri. Res. b/              23.80   23.80
TOTAL c/                                     99.36   450.84  147.39
of which has been repaid                    5.15      5.77
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               94.21   445.07
Amount sold          .30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                            24.00   123.39  147.39
a/ Includes Special Fund Credit.
b/ Became effective November 19, 1985.
c/  In addition, a US$11.6 million equivalent credit for an Agricultural
Extension and Planning Support Project has been signed, a. U9$30.0
million equivalent Credit and US$40.0 equivalent African Facility
Credit for a Structural Adjustment Program have been signed and are
effective, and a US$7.8 million loan for an Agricultural and Industrial
Credit operation has been approved by the Executive Directors.



- 26 -
ANNRX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Investment Fiscal                      Type of
Number     Year   Obligor              Business        Loan    Equity   Total
--(US$ Million) -
326-MAT    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles         10.8        -     10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    77,81  Dwangwa              Sugar           9.9        -      9.9
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    79      Investment and      Development       -        0.6    0.6
Development         Finance
Bank of Malavi      Company
502-HAl    80,84  Malawi               Tourism         2.1        -      2.1
Hotels
Limited
542-MAT    81,82  Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of          ing Alcohol
Malawi              from
Molasses        2.2        0.3    2.5
Total gross commitments                               25.0        0.9   25.9
Less cancellations, terminations,                     10.2        -      10.2
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                     14.8        0.9   15.7
Total Undisbursed



- 27 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
WOOD ENERGY PROJECT - PHASE II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project:          12 Months
(b)  Prepared by:                           Government of  falawi/FAO
Cooperative Program/Bank
(c)  First Bank Mission to
Consider Project:                    July, 1984
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:           June, 1985
(e)  Negotiations:                          February, 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         July, 1986
II.     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.    Special Conditions
(a) Preparation of administrative procedures acceptable to the
Bank for revenue collection and accounting and for managing
the tree planting incentive scheme would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 35).
(b) The heads of the Extension, Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation, and Pilot Charcoal Production Units would be
appointed no later than September 1, 1986 (paras. 36 and 40).
(c) Preparation of a detailed research program, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement against
research expenditure under the project (para. 41).



- 28 -
(d) A detailed training program acceptable to the Bank would be
prepared by September 1, 1986 (para. 41).
(e) The appointment of a Project Coordinator would be a condition
of loan effectlveness (para. 42).
(f) The Government would Increase the stumpage rate by an average
15% in real terms per year in order to ensure that the rate is
equivalent to the average replacement cost by 1996.
(para. 52).



3i2'            \     /  1o V., .1 So/ar-               j*4 
X<4s                                                                   MA LAW I
FORESTRY WOOD ENERGY PROJECT
PHASE 11
,K5WX    j   /   <             ; ;7 i ;;  Fll,vrn  non, R.,.- . ,,Go,,,d   K
P ...o.e d   F. re, ,   R e.- , - .    A nneo nd  by H EI
p. Fnyoedlvn.-e.. o t.eu.. u
*     Prop.,ed RG.........lo Pse
B                , 0     S  47Xt             i            0        ~        ~~~~~~ *  Proposere Goern,nmem  lnai
-          - Ro.&
D .-,, C!ov-1e
YMP                                              T  Ho  \
I                 -.
~~~~~~   b                                      t '             \MOZ A Mh B  I A         
\9   9         )^          ' NHOTAKOTA
Z A  M    BIA~J                 (MIM2                              / A '
/12-             1+1         ESZ    p    @       }                 t_                                           12.
/  0 X nC/ \ uq\,
0 o 20 I?       60      50 -                                                                   CobHol
;o    I    LOW1)                         LLON          NCHiook    fenO   Li
0EA 50  50 5lOETES\     >tRI nM EAN
7-                                                  "~~~~~~~~            ~ ~~~~~~I CHIW  ULN
rue nDhfl bsee u,ePaweo Yi        j                              |1
TYheuOO  neu,,nenee )/                                                                             M  U ACRINGA  = 
-ely Wu eEl  gon2N             02                                                                                                         1& 0  -s
TwehrlSFmw                                                                                                                                  16   ^_    . ]   , >~
ANGOLAO     '-        ,-
ZA05 A'1/
p1tors~@v^AXWf     -AMBA2 MBOLE-
jBOTSWuANA   < 
+   \y           (~WAZ-un2
0       NO                  CM    Z AMB M    I   U E
r_______________________ 30



