Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3512 ET 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Rehabilitation Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 19, 2001 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3512 ET 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 2001, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter of 
development policy dated March 23, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in one tranche 
as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 (d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “
Birr
”
means the currency of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(c) 
“Donor” means any government, multilateral agency, public or private 
financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, which is 
Page  4
-
3
-
proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Borrower on concessional terms or 
on a grant basis to support a development program of the Borrower;  
(d) 
“Ethiopian Privatization Agency” means the Borrower's agency established by 
Proclamation No. 146 - 1998 and responsible for carrying out the privatization of state-owned 
companies and entities; 
(e) 
“Export Promotion Agency” means the body established on December 24, 
1998, by Proclamation No. 132 - 1998 for the promotion of Borrower's exports;  
(f) 
“Federal Civil Service Commission” means the Borrower’s commission 
established by Proclamation No. 6 - 1995; 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning July 8 and 
ending July 7 of the next following year; 
(h) 
“FMIS” means the Borrower’s Financial Management Information System; 
(i) 
“HRMIS” means the Borrower’s Human Resources Management Information 
System;  
(j) 
“MEDAC” means the Borrower’s Ministry for Economic Development and 
Cooperation, established by Proclamation No. 4 - 1995; 
(k) 
“MOF” means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; 
(l) 
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(m) 
“Participating Bank” means a commercial bank in the Borrower’s territory 
which is involved in providing export credit facilities to its clients under the Borrower’s export 
credit guarantee scheme; and 
(n) 
“Standard’s Authority” means the authority created by Proclamation No. 102-
1998 of the Borrower for clearance of its export products. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 116,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its national bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
.
All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association and the Borrower shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2011, and ending May 1, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2021, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.  
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower
 
at the time responsible for Finance
 
is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 1905 
 
Addis Ababa 
Ethiopia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
21147 
  251-1-551355 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By /s/  Brook 
Hailu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  Pamela 
Cox 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
11 -
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party;  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Page  13
-
12 -
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in  
Recital (B) of the Preamble 
 
1. 
Public Sector Management
In accordance with the public sector management policy referred to in paragraphs 13 and 
14 of the letter of development policy, the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association the 
following evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(a) 
the draft civil service law, as adopted by the Borrower's Council of 
Ministers; 
(b) 
the launching of a diagnostic survey of job classification and grading 
(JCG) in the Borrower’s civil service; 
(c) 
the completion of the 1999 labor market study on wage differentials 
between public/private sector jobs in the Borrower’s territory; 
(d) 
the development of criteria for integrating findings from required actions 
in paragraphs (b) and (c) above for formulating a medium-term pay and 
employment policy; and 
(e) 
the draft national policy on service delivery by the Borrower's civil service, as 
adopted by the Borrower's Council of Ministers. 
 
2. 
Public Expenditure Strengthening
In accordance with the public expenditure policy referred to in paragraph 18 of the letter 
of development policy, the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association, the following 
evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Association : 
Page  14
-
13 -
(a) 
the establishment of a committee for, 
inter alia
,
the facilitation of 
Borrower/Donors dialogue on public expenditures issues, with membership 
drawn from MEDAC and MOF; 
(b) 
semiannual meetings on public expenditures related issues to be held by the 
Committee referred to in 2 (a) above with Donors; and 
(c) 
the action plan for developing the FMIS. 
3. 
Private Sector development
In accordance with the private development policy referred to in paragraphs 23 and 24 of 
the letter of development policy, the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association, the 
following evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Association: 
(a) 
the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a draft revised Law on 
voucher-based scheme of duty exemption; 
(b) 
the publication, in a newspaper of national distribution, of a press release 
containing an amended directive of the NBE on the Export Credit Guarantee 
Scheme allowing Participating Banks to charge market interest rates; limiting the 
maximum collateral requirements of new entrants; and simplifying eligibility 
criteria for that Scheme; 
(c) 
the publication, in a newspaper of national distribution, of a press release 
containing an amended directive providing a restriction of coverage of 
NBE price monitoring only to products where international prices are 
available from recognized sources;  
(d) 
the price information responsibility transferred from NBE to the Export 
Promotion Agency; and 
(e) 
an amended directive providing  for a waiver of the requirement that the 
Standard's Authority's quality certificate serves as a condition for export 
clearance where: (i) the buyer confirms his acceptance of a different 
specification, or internationally accepted standard; and (ii) the buyer 
accepts the certification of compliance issued by an authority other than 
the Standard’s Authority. 
Page  15
-
14 -
