                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34387

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q1450 IDA-33010)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF 19.6 MILLION (USD 27.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                              SRI LANKA

                                                FOR THE

                        NORTH-EAST IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE PROJECT




                                           November 22, 2005




Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs)
                                       Rs 1.0 = US$ 0.10
                                       US$ 1 = Rs 99.50
                              At Appraisal US$ 1 = Rs 71.50
                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -   December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs     Community Based Organizations
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DO       Development Objective
DPDs     Deputy Project Director
DS       District Secretary
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FOs      Farmers Organizations
GA       Government Agent
GOSL     Government of Sri Lanka
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICRC     International Committee of the Red Cross
IDPs     Internally Displaced People
LSA      Livelihood Support Activities
LTTE     Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MPCLG    Ministry of Provincial Councils and Local Government
NEIAP    North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
NEIAPII  Second North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
NEPC     North-East Provincial Council
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PMU      Project Management Unit
POP      Project Operational Plan
RDSs     Rural Development Societies
Rs       Sri Lanka Rupees
SLA      Sri Lanka Army
USD      United States Dollars
UN       United Nations
UNHCR    United Nations High Commission for Refugees
VDP      Village Development Plans
VSP      Village Social Profiles
WRDSs    Women's Rural Development Societies

   Vice President:  Praful C. Patel
 Country Director   Peter C. Harrold
  Sector Director   Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader    Nihal Fernando

                                         SRI LANKA
                           North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary (unedited)                         30
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)                             35
Annex 10. Participating NGO Comments (unedited)                                  36

Project ID: P058070                                                  Project Name: North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
Team Leader: Nihal Fernando                                          TL Unit: SASAR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 6, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project                 L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1450; IDA-33010
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (48%); Roads and highways (30%); Other
                            social services (12%); Water supply (7%); Sub-national government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Decentralization (P); Rural policies and institutions (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/15/1999                                     Effective: 03/01/2000                03/16/2000
     Appraisal: 04/01/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2003                  06/23/2003
      Approval: 12/02/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REP. OF SRI LANKA/NORTH-EAST
                                           PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Meiko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager/Director:        Constance A. Bernard                           Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Nihal Fernando                                 Nihal Fernando
ICR Primary Author:             William Sorrenson (FAO) &
                                Suryanarayan Satish (WB)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective (DO) of the project was to help conflict affected communities in the North-East
and adjoining areas to re-establish at least a subsistence level of production and community-based services
through provision of assistance for jump-starting agricultural and small-scale reconstruction activities, and
build the capacity of such communities for sustainable social and economic reintegration.

3.1.1 Assessment: Satisfactory. The project was initiated amidst difficult human, security and logistical
conditions that prevailed in the North-East and the neighboring districts consequent to the long-standing
conflict between the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).
Although, security conditions and mobility of people in the project area slowly improved after the signing
of the cease fire agreement in February 2002, the situation remained precarious following LTTE's
withdrawal from the peace talks in April 2003, the LTTE's internal conflicts in March 2004, and the
tsunami disaster in December 2004. The conflict disrupted agricultural production and related support
services, and other vital village social and economic infrastructure and services supporting livelihoods of
the people. Under this volatile socio-political situation and economic conditions, the DO was appropriate
and remained throughout project implementation. Furthermore, the DO was in-line with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and post-conflict reconstruction strategy, and was in response to
GOSL request for assistance during the transitional period from humanitarian aid to reconstruction. The
DO was consistent with the Bank's mandate of political neutrality and to support efforts to promote ethnic
harmony, and was also consistent with GOSL's relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction policy aimed at
bringing the population affected by the conflict back to productive life.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The DO remained relevant and was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components as stated in the PAD were: (1) Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes (US$13.6
million, 42% of total costs) to provide essential rehabilitation of about 400 small irrigation schemes to
reinstate their productive capacity; (2) Community Capacity Building and Small-scale Reconstruction
(USD$12.1 million, 37% of total costs) to support (a) social mobilization, community capacity building
and training; and (b) implementation of community-level reconstruction activities including irrigation
rehabilitation, rural roads, drinking water facilities and other community level small scale reconstruction;
(3) Feasibility Studies for Rehabilitation of Selected Major/Medium Schemes (US$0.3 million, 1% of
total costs) to prepare feasibility studies for rehabilitation of the ten most dilapidated major irrigation
schemes in the North-East province, and in the border villages of the four neighboring districts; (4) Project
Implementation Support (US$6.0 million, 19% of total costs) to finance the procurement of vehicles,
office equipment and furniture, road construction equipment, hiring of professional and support staff, civil
works quality assurance, local training of regional staff and recurrent expenditure; and (5) Project
Technical and Financial Management Audit (US$0.4 million, 1% of total costs) to provide for the hiring
of technical auditors to carry out independent technical reviews and quality assurance of civil works, and
for engaging an independent financial auditor to review financial procedures and systems, report on
non-compliance and recommend financial management improvements.

3.3.1 Assessment:Satisfactory. The project components were appropriately related to the project objective
and the capacity of the implementing agency. They took into account the basic needs and urgent
rehabilitation requirements of the conflict affected people, lessons learned from the previous related



                                                      - 2 -

projects, and tapped experience of local non-government organizations (NGOs). But the project
components could have been structured more simply by combining the last two components and
reorganizing the sub-components of the first two components in a more logical way.


3.4 Revised Components:
An additional component (Livelihood Support Activities ­ LSA) was added in January 2002, which was
within the project design and scope, to make the project more inclusive. It appropriately provided an
opportunity for the landless and the most vulnerable families, as well as women, who could not benefit
from tank rehabilitation to capture project support. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended on December 2002 to permit (i) livelihood support grants to Women's Rural Development
Societies (WRDSs), and (ii) WRDSs to provide repayable loans to members for undertaking small
individual household income generating activities related to: (a) agriculture and allied activities; (b)
improved production and marketing of commodities; (c) promotion of various micro-enterprises; and (d)
constructing common assets such as community buildings. The amendment reallocated US$ 2 million to the
LSA from the "Civil Works" category of the Credit.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry is satisfactory. At entry the conflict between the GOSL and LTTE was raging.
Due to the consequent security constraints, conventional project preparation activities (social assessments,
institutional analysis, baseline surveys and beneficiary consultations) could not be undertaken. However,
wide consultation was undertaken with the main stakeholders; viz. the North-East Provincial Council
(NEPC), District Secretaries (DS)/Government Agents (GA) of the project area, the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), commanders
of the Sri Lanka Army (SLA) of the project area, and the political wing of the LTTE. Lessons learned
from previous Bank funded projects in Sri Lanka and elsewhere were incorporated. The implementation
experience of the World Bank funded National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr 3058 CE), which was
extended to the North-East during 1997-1998, provided valuable experience as it had proven that a simple
operation focused on irrigation rehabilitation through community participation was possible in the
North-east.

Typically irrigation tanks provide water for irrigation and drinking water for rural villages in Sri Lanka.
The project focussed on the revival of agricultural production through restoration of irrigation tanks
complemented with the rehabilitation and provision of essential village facilities, support for income
generating activities, and revival of community organizations.      The project's development focus was
appropriate to provide sustainable livelihood for the returning Internally Displaced People (IDPs) and the
conflict-affected people.

The project implementation design was simple, pragmatic, and recognized the unique context of the conflict
situation and consequent operational impediments prevailed in the North-East region at the entry: (i)
Interventions were planned in both "Cleared Areas" [areas under the military control of the SLA] and
"Uncleared Areas" [areas controlled by the LTTE]; (ii) Before the February 2002 cease-fire agreement, the
divide between the two areas continually changed; (iii) Most of the staff of the line ministries and
departments based in Colombo (Capital of Sri Lanka) were reluctant to travel to the North-East: (iv)
planning and implementation of any development interventions in the project areas, and movement of
government and Bank staff, vehicles, and construction materials into uncleared areas required prior
clearance of both the SLA and LTTE; (v) use of project funds in the uncleared areas required diligent
mechanisms for monitoring, and systems for financial accountability and transparency acceptable to the



                                                    - 3 -

government and SLA; (vi) disbursement of funds in the project area was difficult, due to the collapse of
formal Banking facilities; and (vii) planning of World Bank supervision missions was tedious, consequent
to strict security clearance procedures both from the Ministry of Defense in Colombo and area commanders
of the SLA of the project areas. Project design addressed these inherent risks and difficulties of the
operating environment by making the implementation arrangements simple and pragmatic, securing
beneficiary and stakeholder participation, fostering implementation partnerships with SLA, NGOs,
UNHCR and ICRC, and hiring independent technical audits and financial audits, as briefly described
below.

The project implementation responsibility was fully devolved to the NEPC, despite claims of several central
government ministries based in Colombo to become the lead ministry for project implementation. However,
the Ministry of Provincial Councils and Local Government (MPCLG) was appointed as the anchor
ministry for the project but its role was limited only to play a facilitative role for matters that cannot be
resolved at NEPC level but required attention of the high levels of the government, including the Treasury
and Ministry of Defense. The NEPC retained the project management reponsibility and the implementation
responsibility was further devolved from NEPC to the participating districts to enable transparent and
consultative selection of focal villages, and benficiries, close laisaon with other development partners at
district level, and better supervision and monitoring. The implementation at district level relied upon
collaborative working partnerships between relevant provincial council agencies and the district wings of
the central government departments overseen by district DSs/GAs and managed by a senior level
government officer of the district, designated as Deputy Project Director. This arrangement promoted
collaborative working partnerships between the concerned agencies of the provincial council and the central
government within the districts.      The design included NGOs as implementing partners. This was
appropriate because the NEPC lacked capacity and prior experience in community mobilization, and the
partnering NGOs had already been engaged in community-based activities in the project area.

The recognition of the importance of establishing implementation partnerships was important. The
inclusion of SLA, ICRC, and UNHCR as formal members of the project steering committee proved to be
invaluable in (i) identifying and targeting focal villages; (ii) coordinating and monitoring project activities;
(iii) enhancing accountability and transparency in the use of project resources in uncleared areas; and (iv)
facilitating security clearances to ensure speedy and timely mobility of staff, vehicles and construction
materials to project sites. The inclusion of both independent technical auditors and financial auditors
carried out by private sector agencies, for the first time in a Bank funded project in the country, was
important to GOSL, particularly to SLA. The engagement of audits not only satisfied their concerns about
transparency and accountability in the use of development funds in the prevailing risky environment, but
also helped the Project Management Unit (PMU) in enhancing the diligence in financial management and
engineering quality of the design of subprojects during the implementation.

Project design also recognized the need for active participation of the conflict-affected communities in the
planning and implementation of the project interventions. The approach was in-line with GOSL policy of
greater community participation in decision making, implementation and devolving responsibility for
operations and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation assets and water facilities and other village infrastructure
to communities.

However, project design did not specifically provide for an institutional or implementation arrangement for
ensuring construction quality of civil works, nor did it provide for developing practical management
information and monitoring and evaluation systems.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project has at the end of implementation realized its objectives. Achievement of the DO
was assessed on the basis of four major outcomes: (i) increase in irrigated area and agricultural production;
(ii) increase in on-farm employment; (iii) improvement in access to basic village infrastructure and social
services; and (iv) representative and responsive village level institutions. The project interventions,
particularly the restoration of irrigation schemes, catalyzed the return of internally displaced people (IDP)
to their original settlements, created short-term and long-term employment opportunities for the IDPs, and
contributed to the gradual integration of the affected people to normal socioeconomic life. The project
exceeded its targets in most of these outcome indicators (Annex 1).


4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of major project components are described below. Annex 1b compares the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) targets to the revised targets and the actual achievements for each of the project
activities. The benefits of most of the components are described in Annex 3.

4.2.1 Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes.            Satisfactory. This component envisaged essential
rehabilitation of about 400 small irrigation schemes (tanks, diversion weir/run-off-river systems) with a
combined command area of 16,000 ha to reinstate their productive capacity adequately to help conflict
affected communities to quickly resume or increase agricultural production. A total of 396 focal villages
were actually selected and 379 irrigation schemes were targeted to be completed in four batches. As of June
30, 2005, 369 schemes were completed (a combined command area of 24,980 ha) and 275 schemes were
handed-over to Farmers Organizations (FOs). Thus the actual output is 98% of the target. The remaining
schemes (10) were being completed using funds of NEIAPII and PMU will continue the process of handing
over all remaining completed schemes to FOs.

4.2.2 Community Capacity Building and Small-scale Reconstruction:                 Overall satisfactory. This
component had a number of sub-components and their outputs are discussed separately below.

(i) Community capacity building. The project successfully reactivated, created or strengthened a total of
1057 Community Based Organizations (CBOs) [371 Farmers Organizations (FOs), 369 Rural
Development Societies( RDSs) and 317 Women's Rural Development Societies (WRDSs)] in all focal
villages. These CBOs engaged in planning and implementing project-supported activities satisfactorily in
their respective areas of responsibilities. The project contributed to community capacity building through:
(i) introducing and supporting bottom-up planning processes of developing Village Social Profiles (VSP)
and Village Development Plans (VDP) facilitated by NGOs; (ii) providing training on procurement,
financial management and technical aspects related with project related civil works; and (iii) creating
linkages between CBOs and government offices, such as the Irrigation Department, Agrarian Service
Department, Provincial Road Development Authority, and the Rural Development Department.

The most notable achievement of the project related to community capacity building is the establishment of
WRDSs and the resultant empowerment of women. Prior to the project interventions, institutionalized
groups of women did not exist in most focal villages. WRDSs formed by the project have included the
majority of women in the project focal villages and their representatives have demonstrated strong
leadership. The WRDSs are seen by many as the most robust village-level CBOs, effectively catering to the
needs of women, as well as the poor and the vulnerable. FOs and RDSs, which were existent but mostly
dormant or weak before the project, were reactivated and strengthened during project implementation. It is



                                                     - 5 -

noteworthy that, by promoting adoption of by-laws, the project encouraged FOs to expand membership to
include previously excluded tenant farmers, although this was not exercised uniformly nor always at a
satisfactory level.

(ii) Training of beneficiaries and staff on participatory and technical aspects. The social mobilization
process facilitated by NGOs provided a platform for a satisfactory implementation of this sub-component.
Training was provided by NGOs as well as technical staff of implementing agencies at district level.
Specific activities of NGOs included: (i) mobilizing communities, and forming/reactivating of FOs, RDSs
and WRDSs and expanding the membership in the CBOs; (ii) preparation of village social profiles (VSP);
(iii) providing human and institutional development support for planning and implementing village
development plans; (VDP); (iv) technical assistance for planning and implementing livelihood support
activities; and (v) community monitoring. Some NGOs had been employed in 31 contracts for these
services. An independent evaluation carried out in 2003 found that in most districts performance of NGOs
was satisfactory, although inter village and inter district differentials in performance were quite high. Major
reasons for this were: (i) reluctance on the part of PMU to provide project specific orientation training to
the NGOs; (ii) non-availability of a Social Development Specialist in the PMU at the inception (to guide
NGOs and work in the LTTE controlled areas) on a continuing basis; (iii) inadequate monitoring and
mentoring of field level project staff by the PMU; and (iv) absence of sharing and learning opportunities for
NGOs and staff. As and when the contracts ended, NGOs were phased out, with the result that data
generation for progress reporting suffered affecting overall M&E. Despite the Bank Mission's repeated
recommendations to overcome this problem, the situation was not effectively addressed by the PMU. The
project did not succeed in gaining universal acceptance among government stakeholders of the success and
achievements of the NGO support.

(iii) Rehabilitation of rural roads. The objective of this sub-component was to improve the mobility of
rural communities and to facilitate the transport of agricultural inputs/outputs as well as other utilities (bus
services, access to traders and service providers etc.). The PAD envisaged the rehabilitation of 1,200 km of
selected earthen and gravel rural roads, about 3-4 km roads in each village. Finally, 1,294 km of roads
were targeted for rehabilitation and all roads had been completed, thereby achieving over 100% completion.
Of the completed roads, 1,023 km have also been handed-over to RDSs. The remaining completed roads
are being handed-over. This intervention considerably improved mobility of the people and their access to
farms, schools, health facilities, and nearby markets and townships.

(iv) Provision of drinking water wells. The achievements of this activity have been highly satisfactory.
The original target of 300 wells were increased to 775 taking into consideration the genuine demands of
villagers, of which construction of 754 wells have been completed as of June 30, 2005 and remaining wells
were being constructed, thereby achieving nearly 100% completion level, and exceeding PAD targets. Of
the completed wells, 547 wells had been handed-over to the FOs and WRDSs. Construction of wells has
made a substantial contribution to improving the supply of drinking water of the communities and to saving
time in collecting water.

(v) Other community level reconstruction activities and social and needs assessments. This
sub-component was to carry out other community-level essential reconstruction activities such as urgent
repairs to vital facilities (schools, health-centers, and shelters), social and needs assessments, and planning
and implementation of programs to create conditions for re-integration of the communities within the
project area. Achievements have been satisfactory as indicated in the next two paragraphs.

Construction of community buildings: The project planned to construct 379 village level buildings/
multi-purpose community centers and all buildings were completed, thereby achieving full completion level.


                                                       - 6 -

Of these buildings 291 community centers had been taken over by RDSs/WRDSs. Before the project, most
houses and village buildings had been destroyed. People did not have common meeting places. Now, most
of these community buildings are serving not only as meeting places, but also as a shelter for kindergarten
classes, mobile health clinics, agro-service centers, WRDS's secretariat, and sometimes as a place for
wedding functions. But there are a few instances reported of the buildings not having been needed in some
villages and of not being properly maintained.

Social Assessments: After considerable difficulty, and with the assistance of the Bank, District Social
Profiles were completed satisfactorily by the first Mid-Term Review (a Credit pre-condition before
disbursement on civil works). The social safeguards-cum-risk management manual was prepared to address
proactively, potential reputational risks related to the unauthorized occupation of irrigated land of the
displaced people. The manual was used as an integral tool for screening, selecting and planning project
interventions in the focal villages, and proved to be useful in the preparation of the North-East
Reconstruction Trust Fund proposed to be administered by IDA, but has been suspended for reasons
beyond the control of the Bank.

4.2.3 Livelihood Support Activities. Satisfactory. A total of 18,957 household-based LSA were
completed with cash loans administered by WRDSs from project grants. This is a very significant
achievement considering: (i) this sub-component was not prepared in detail at the time of appraisal; (ii)
activities started only in the second year of implementation; and (iii) beneficiaries as well as project staff
and other officials had very little exposure to this type of intervention. LSA enabled the project to reach the
poor households without paddy lands who would not have directly benefited from tank rehabilitation, and
consequently boosted the overall positive impacts of the project significantly. Design and implementation
modalities of the LSA sub-component were well-attuned to simultaneous capacity building of WRDSs and
social empowerment of women. All loan recipients were women and the activities undertaken were in most
cases geared toward women's own economic empowerment and household food security. The majority of
activities were related to animal husbandry (cattle, goats and poultry) with the remainder being agriculture
related and self-employed business activities. The success of LSA is largely attributable to effective
engagement of and support to WRDSs, which in most cases instilled a sense of group cohesiveness and
discipline in managing grant fund and loan repayments. In a minority of cases, however, support from and
monitoring by responsible implementing agencies were not adequate and WRDSs capacity to identify
financially viable activities and manage the revolving fund in a sustainable manner appears to be weak.
While the financial book-keeping performance of the WRDSs has improved during the project, there is
scope for further improvement. For this, a systematic and comprehensive plan to capacitate the WRDSs is
required.

4.2.4 Feasibility Studies for Rehabilitation of Selected Major/ Medium Schemes.                  Satisfactory.
Although NEIAP focused primarily on small-scale irrigation schemes, it appropriately recognized at the
project design that the major irrigation schemes too will have to be addressed eventually over time, once the
security situation becomes favorable. In view of this a component was introduced aimed at conducting a
feasibility analysis of selected ten major irrigation schemes. The rationale for the inclusion of these studies
was that the studies could form the basis of a possible follow-on project should the security situation
improve. Though these studies were initially meant to be done from an engineering perspective,
subsequently their scope was extended at the request of the Government to cover also economic,
environmental, social and institutional aspects and the studies were referred to as "Productivity
Enhancement Studies". Two consultancy companies were awarded contracts for undertaking the studies,
the commencement of which was considerably delayed due to the security situation. The high cost
proposals prepared by the consultants were not appropriate in their entirety for the situation existing in the
North-East. Based on the studies five major irrigation schemes were selected for essential rehabilitation and


                                                       - 7 -

improvement which will be taken-up in the follow-on NEIAPII project. NEPC will try to mobilize funds for
the remaining schemes.

4.2.5 Project Implementation Support. Overall achievement is satisfactory.

Project Implementation and Project Management Unit (PMU). Overall the PMU managed the project
satisfactorily under the guidance of the Chief Secretary of the NEPC and through District Project Offices.
At the provincial level, NEPC took full advantage of the devolution to build-up capacity through training
and skills development becoming a lead-anchor for all project agencies as well as for the other follow-up
donor programs. The Ministry of Provincial Councils and Local Government (MPCLG), the Project
Steering Committee (PSC) and the National Project Coordination Committee (NPCC) provided satisfactory
guidance to the project. Overall the PMU provided satisfactory project oversight and handled project
procurement, financial management and auditing satisfactorily without major lapses. PMU adopted agreed
environmental checklists for screening subprojects, and compliance with social and environmental
safeguards was satisfactory. With respect to financial management, the PMU deployed adequate and
appropriate financial management staff, and enforced acceptable accounting procedures and record
keeping. All financial covenants were complied with and there were no overdue audit reports. The project
generated quarterly Project Management Reports according to the agreed guidelines. But a number of
shortcomings in procurement administration, financial management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
were noted by supervision missions, and some those shortcomings were not always satisfactorily resolved
by the project management.

Procurement: While the project pioneered the promotion of "community contracting", which accounted for
85% of the works contracts (relative to the PAD target of 50%) a number of problems were encountered.
PMU resorted to slicing engineering civil works of subprojects, mainly of irrigation and road works, in to
several small contract packages without competitively inviting bids from contractors and awarding those to
CBOs without assessing the construction management capacity of those communities. Consequently, the
implementation delays occurred and the construction quality suffered where the capacity of communities
was limited. The procurement of some of the equipment such as road construction equipment, vehicles,
motor cycles, vibratory plate compactors and concrete mixers were delayed. These delays had a retarding
impact on work progress and quality of the compaction of earth fill on tank bunds. Overall the time taken
for completion of procurement cycle for goods and consultancy services improved compared to the initial
stages of the project implementation. The PMU should have been proactive in setting up and enforcing a
comprehensive construction quality management strategy, guideline and mechanism, as bulk of the project
investments were for a large number of small scale subprojects wide-spread over the project area.

Financial management: Supervision missions noted that financial management could have benefited from:
(i) greater coordination between the departments of finance of the NEPC and M&E of the PMU as this
would have provided more comprehensive and timely information for project management; and (ii) closer
integration with the technical and financial audits; and (iii) timely compliance with observations and
recommendations of the technical auditors and financial management auditors. The PMU should have been
more proactive in developing financial management training material and mobilizing its financial
management staff to take the lead in conducting training to WRDSs for successful management of LSA
and related financial accounting and record keeping at village level.

Monitoring and evaluation (M&E): M&E performance was unsatisfactory. According to the PAD the
PMU would systematically monitor and evaluate project inputs, outputs, effects, and impacts. The DCA
included a covenant stipulating that the Borrower was to prepare, subject to the satisfaction of the Bank,



                                                   - 8 -

reports integrating the results of the M&E activities before the first and second Mid-term Reviews (MTR)
on or about March 31, 2001 and 2003. Agreements were reached between the Bank and Borrower early in
the implementation that an M&E-led learning system would be indispensable for effective management.
The Bank Task Team helped the PMU to develop a framework for implementation monitoring. PMU
succeeded in operationalizing the framework        in the initial years enabling adequate recording of: (i)
physical progress; (ii) financial progress; and (iii) output performance. Overall M&E was satisfactory in
input-output monitoring, procurement administration and financial management monitoring, and quarterly
progress reporting to the Bank during the project implementation. However, much more attention could
have been given to monitoring the community mobilization processes, as well as sustainability assessments
and in assessing project impacts. Towards the Credit closure, the M&E system, in particular at the PMU
level, did not work well rendering output/ outcome assessment difficult. This situation is due to: (i) the
absence of NGOs after the completion of their contracts which impeded data generation from the
communities over the final 24 months of project implementation; (ii) a greater focus on the second project
preparation and inadequate attention given to the first project; (iii) part-time involvement of the Project
Director resulted in less than expected levels of leadership, guidance and supervision; and (iv) lack of
attention to the impact assessment of project interventions.

4.2.6 Project Technical and Financial Management Audit. Satisfactory. The project hired two
independent consulting firms - A Technical Auditor and Financial Auditor. Technical Auditor's role was to
carry out independent random and periodic audits of technical aspects including all field survey works,
designs, cost estimates, procurement arrangements, and construction quality of civil works. Although the
TA was required to carry out these assignments on a 10% sample of project civil works, it handled much
more than 50% of civil works. The introduction of independent TA proved useful in creating a general
awareness on construction quality, providing good feedback and assistance to PMU on field surveys and
design aspects, and enabling the PMU to expeditiously review and approve cost estimates. Similarly, FA's
role was to carry out random field visits to audit the accuracy, transparency and accountability of the use
of project funds and records in the field. Both auditors consistently provided their field reports with their
observations and recommendations.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic analysis in the PAD was limited to irrigation scheme rehabilitation and considered only
incremental paddy production in the main (maha) season. The PAD expected economic rate of return
(ERR) for irrigation rehabilitation alone, ignoring the other project components and project management
costs, was estimated at 14%.

The re-evaluation of the project at ICR recognizes that a variety of important benefits have accrued as a
result of the project interventions. The overall project ERR, taking account of total project costs and
benefits arising from irrigation rehabilitation, LSA, and improvements in village roads and drinking water
wells, is estimated conservatively at 15%. The most significant economic impact was from the LSA
sub-component. The estimated ERR and net present values (NPVs) - discounting at 12% over 20 years - at
the end of implementation were as follows: LSA (ERR - 40%, NPV - Rs 554 m); drinking water wells
(ERR - 19%, NPV-Rs 31 m); rural roads (ERR - 12%, NPV Rs - 0.2 m) and irrigation rehabilitation (ERR
- 10.5%, NPV - Rs 67 m). The number of households directly benefiting from the project is 33,250
(irrigation rehabilitation), 18,860 (LSA), 23,300 (drinking water wells) and 83,250 (rural roads). The
increases in areas irrigated and paddy productivity have been significant and greater than expected at
appraisal at 11% and 44% respectively. However these gains have been more than offset by the declining
forecasted world paddy prices, the increasing economic price of farm labor as surplus labor has declined,
and unexpected delays in completing irrigation rehabilitation work. Consequently the ERR of irrigation



                                                     - 9 -

rehabilitation has fallen from 14% to 11% comparing the PAD and ICR estimates respectively. See Annex
3 for details.

The project also generated a number of important social benefits which are not included in the revised ERR
due to data limitations and the difficulty of quantifying them; viz. ground water recharge, wet land
conservation, improved access to schools and hospitals, increased employment opportunities, and above all,
restoration of peaceful social life in the village communities.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
ICR evaluated six major LSA categories, which received 70% of the loan disbursed in the first cycle, based
on a small representative sample of 66 case studies conducted in 41 villages in seven districts. Investments
on small shops, water pumps and goats show the highest rates of return ranging from 92 to 108% and
shortest payback periods of two to six months. The rate of return on highland cultivation and draft bulls is
59% each with short pay-back periods of five to nine months. Investments in milking cows were not viable
due to the use of local breeds with low milk yields. Water pumps, small shops and goats generated net
incremental income ranging from Rs 1800 to 2050 per month per beneficiary family, which compared
favorably to the official poverty line for Sri Lanka of Rs 1736 per month per capita (2005 prices). The
analysis indicates that LSA has made a substantial impact on the incomes of the families who have directly
benefited. Many of these households will continue to improve their income generation activities initiated
through the project, but there is a risk that some activities will not improve, and others may well fail, due to
limited technical support and limited access to affordable credit. Nevertheless the poverty alleviation
potential of LSA in vulnerable households in the project area, where poverty incidence varies from 17 to
32%, has been impressively high. Because of limitations in the impact assessment database, the multiplier
effects and impacts on equity and poverty alleviation, which is believed to be significant, could not be
quantified.

In terms of irrigation rehabilitation, average financial net return with the project is estimated at Rs 14,131
per ha of cropped area, which is 60% higher than the without project situation. Net return to family labor is
estimated to average Rs 554 per day, which exceeds both the agricultural peak period wage rates as well as
off-farm wages.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the project has been substantial. The project had a number of significant
positive impacts on institutional development: Importantly NEIAP was the first large scale donor funded
rehabilitation program successfully launched in the North-East after the hostilities between the two parties
aggravated after 1990 and at a time when the region was still in a "conflict" status. It provided an
unprecedented opportunity to the NEPC to build skills and capacity of their staff for large scale
rehabilitation and reconstruction interventions with major donors. The project enhanced the credibility of:
(i) GOSL in the eyes of the international community, the conflict-affected people and the general public of
Sri Lanka for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Northeast; and (ii) the World Bank as a responsive
development partner in Sri Lanka, particularly for the people affected by the conflict. By the same token,
implementation of the project has helped other donors to consider NEPC as an able institution and anchor
subsequent large scale donor programs with it. Its implementation success in the first two years improved
the donor confidence and catalyzed further rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance to the region.

The project paved the way for an open and transparent dialogue between the NEPC and Bank staff, and the
Bank with LTTE, in relation to the project activities. The implementation approach built up collaborative
and harmonious working arrangements between the agencies of provincial council and central government
within the project area, notable in the districts within NEPC. The project provided an unprecedented



                                                      - 10 -

learning experience for field staff, particularly the technical staff, in working closely with communities and
NGOs.

The project's strong emphasis on community capacity building succeeded in creating and reactivating
CBOs, and enabling them to become primary development agents at the village level. An external review of
CBOs conducted in 2003 indicated that the project had been able to facilitate the building of capacity in
communities, and a significant number of FOs, RDSs and WRDSs had effectively formed/ rejuvenated.
New leadership, especially amongst youth and women, had emerged in the RDSs and WRDSs, and these
CBOs now had the basic elements of organizational development in place. The sense of ownership in
village infrastructure, people's self-reliance, transparency and accountability at community level have
increased. The project effectively created linkages and facilitated better communication between CBOs and
relevant government agencies. These institutional developments, and linkages and information flows
between communities and government agencies, will benefit planning and implementation of government's
own programs in the future.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The momentum the project generated towards reaching a peaceful settlement was hampered by the
withdrawal of the LTTE from the peace talks in April 2003 and the internal instability in LTTE since
March 2004. Difficulties experienced in attracting competent and qualified people from other parts of the
country to work on the project, and the quality of consultants, have impeded the quality and speed of
implementation, particularly during the first two years of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Policy and financial support provided by Government were very good. Government has never
comprehensively assessed the performance of the NEPC despite the fact that considerable resources were
channeled to the NEPC.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PMU did not ensure compliance with all of the recommendations of the technical audit and
consequently quality of construction works suffered to some extent. Technical assistance furnished to the
LSA was in most cases insufficient. Better inputs from NGOs would have been obtained if the PMU
provided initial orientation and capacity building to its partnering NGOs. The capacity building of the
CBOs in O&M was inadequate. The M&E and MIS arrangements provided timely physical and financial
progress data and reporting which were confined to fulfilling the Bank's and audit requirements and did not
support day-to-day project management. Overall, the PMU should have improved its process, output and
impact monitoring.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs at appraisal including all contingencies were US$ 32.4 million (m) or Rs 2317 m. Actual
expenditure in current rupees up to June 2005 was Rs 3099.7 m which is 134% of the PAD estimated cost.
Expressed in US$ equivalents, actual costs totaled US$ 32.1 m, slightly below the appraisal estimate which
can be explained by the rupee devaluation against the US$ during project implementation falling from Rs
71.5 to Rs 99.5 per US dollar. Cost allocations with respect to components changed as follows comparing
actual allocations to PAD estimates: rehabilitation of irrigation schemes came down (36% compared to
44%); capacity building and small-scale reconstruction went up (46% compared to 36%) mainly due to the



                                                      - 11 -

LSA initiated in 2002; and project implementation support share has come down (15% compared to 19%).
Bank, Government and beneficiary shares in the actual project costs are 81:16:3 compared to the planned
share of 83:13:4. The project has disbursed US$ 25.848 million (including the amount advanced to the
SDA of US$ 2.4 m) out of a total credit of US$ 28.0 m ( SDR 19.6 at an exchange rate of SDR 1 = US$
1.42914 on Nov 19, 2005) representing a disbursement rate of 92%. An amount of US$ 1.346 million was
undisbursed and therefore cancelled at the Closure. The disbursement rate as a percentage of the original
Credit Amount of US$ 27 (SDR19.6 at an exchange rate of SDR 1 = US$ 1.37555 at appraisal)
is 96 %.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, project sustainability is likely. Generally, tank irrigation outputs and outcomes are likely to be
sustainable. The sustainability and further growth of the LSA's will depend on the nature and extent of
capacity support provided to them by NEPC. In the case of rural roads, sustainability is uncertain.
Sustainability has been assessed from three dimensions - physical, financial and institutional, as elaborated
in the following paragraphs.

Physical sustainability: There have been some deficiencies in the quality of construction particularly
during the first year works, partly due to a lack of capacity and quality testing facilities in the
conflict-affected area. However, interventions by the Bank supervision teams not only resulted in improved
construction quality, but also in the development and enforcement of strict quality control measures, despite
the emergency nature of the project, lack of quality control laboratories, facilities and staff in the project
area, particularly in the LTTE controlled areas, and the difficulties encountered due to the remoteness of
work sites, difficult accessibility and the wide-spread of villages.

Institutional sustainability: The CBOs rejuvenated and created are legally registered, have by-laws, a
governance structure and financial records. A large majority of them has successfully completed most of
the civil work contracts awarded to them. Most of the WRDSs have successfully managed the LSA
activities (see following paragraph) and are now looking to scaling-up income and employment generating
activities in their villages. In general, FOs appear be less active than the RDSs and WRDSs during the
implementation. However, in case of the FOs, where a large number of land owners live within the village,
their sustainability and involvement in the organizational activities is higher than when many landowners
live outside the villages and lease their land out. Most CBOs have now established working relationships
with the concerned government agencies. However, the probability of institutional sustainability of RDSs
is less than that of FOs and WRDSs.

Financial sustainability: Most of the FOs, RDSs and WRDSs have (i) generated considerable savings
through the execution of community contracts, and from interest accumulated from loans in the case of
LSA, (ii) have opened up separate bank accounts, and (iii) are aware and willing to take care of the tanks,
roads and community buildings. . The savings-led funds inculcate necessary financial capacity to undertake
routine O&M activities that require more than voluntary labor. However, these savings may be soon
depleted in those CBOs which do not have systems of membership and service fee collection systems.

Sustainability of irrigation works: The deficiencies in a small number of completed irrigation tanks were
reported , and those need to be attended to early under the NEIAP II for their long term functioning and
serviceability. The project has prepared O&M manuals for the irrigation schemes, provided training on
O&M to FO representatives and formally handed over the completed irrigation tanks to FOs for



                                                     - 12 -

post-project O&M. It is the policy of the Government that FOs are responsible for routine O&M of the
minor irrigation works, and the Department of Agrarian Services and Provincial Irrigation Department
provide the technical guidance and financial support to FOs to undertake large scale repairs to irrigation
tanks that are beyond FOs' technical and financial capacity. Moreover, it is tradition that FO members
clean the canals and tank embankments and attend to urgent small repairs using voluntary labor before the
onset of each cultivation season, twice a year. This practice is likely to continue in the future.

Sustainability of rural roads. Maintenance of rural (class D and E) roads remains a grey area nationally.
National policy states that "Pradeshiya Sabhas" should be responsible for the maintenance of these roads,
but this policy is not implemented due to fiscal and technical constraints of the Pradeshiya Sabhas. In
addition many Pradeshiya Sabhas no longer exist in the project area due to the long standing conflict.
Under this scenario, the only option is to encourage the RDSs to attend to minor repairs mobilizing
voluntary labor from their villages supplemented with some small amount of financial assistance from the
Rural Development Department. According to the NEPC Chief Secretary, steps have been initiated to put
in place a regional policy and an associated set of systems and procedures for the O&M of all public
assets.

Sustainability of livelihood support activities. WRDSs are functioning and many are performing well. A
good number of them have completed the first round of lending and repayments have begun, many WRDSs
have started second round lending and a few third round lending. There appears to be a high degree of
variation in terms of loan recovery rates, which seems to be influenced by the strength of the WRDSs and
discipline among the members rather than the economic viability of the activities undertaken. Clearly,
women leadership is emerging. With most WRDSs empowered and eager to continue to expand LSA to
new members, their overall sustainability is likely. However, cause for concern remains with border
districts, which have been under-performing, as well as certain villages where WRDSs are still weak. Low
recovery rates and LSA coverage in some villages would affect the sustainability of the LSA activities and
of the revolving funds managed by the WRDSs. It is essential that WRDSs not performing well are
identified, reasons analyzed and remedial actions taken under NEIAPII. Bank supervision missions have
raised a number of important sustainability related issues which remain to be addressed in NEIAPI. These
include enhancing membership, widening activity portfolios, continued monitoring and evaluation, and
training of WRDSs.

It has to be mentioned that sustainability of the project and its benefits would depend upon the successful
continuation of the current ceasefire agreement between the GOSL and LTTE that eventually lead to
sustainable peace in the North-East. In the current political environment, it is uncertain whether the
ceasefire agreement will continue or not. If the ceasefire agreement breaks and the hostilities between the
two parties resume again, then the sustainability of the project outputs and benefits would be in serious
jeopardy. However, in the event that hostilities between the two parties erupt, the irrigation schemes, rural
roads, drinking water facilities etc. that have been created and rehabilitated and the livelihood support
activities initiated by the project would help the beneficiaries to sustain the livelihoods for some time and
make them more resilient against the shocks and vulnerability of a potential conflict situation.




6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NEPC plans to develop a regional policy for operation and maintenance of village assets. In the meantime
there is a need to further strengthen the CBOs to become sustainable entities and to train them in O&M.
The following actions are essential: (i) addressing defects/ deficiencies related to rehabilitation of some of
the tanks completed in the initial years; (ii) agriculture development efforts in terms of intensification and



                                                     - 13 -

diversification to enable graduation from subsistence to commercial agriculture; and (iii) capacity as well
as further mentoring-cum-nurturing support. A provision for these has been made under the follow-on
NEIAPII project and the Bank as well as GOSL needs to ensure that these provisions are utilized. Further,
the follow-on project provides for the participation of the Rural Development Department which is
expected to provide further technical assistance to the CBOs forming federations and linking them to the
private sector, technology and markets. Above all, the current M&E system needs to be made fully
functional to capture results in their totality and to provide for regular learning-based mid-course corrective
measures. To enable the latter, the second project (NEIAPII) should continue monitoring the processes,
outputs and outcomes of NEIAP and NEPC should provide the required resources for this. Action has
already been initiated by Bank's task team for NEIAPII towards this end. It would be highly desirable that
the Bank continues to supervise the first project villages and follow-up on the results. Two impact
assessment evaluations should be done over the next three years. These impact assessments shall examine
the sustainability CBOs and their involvement in the O&M of the subprojects. While the first one could be
conducted by an international consultancy within the next 18 months, OED could subsequently follow-up.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Highly satisfactory. Section 3.5 of the ICR highlights the Bank team's facilitative role at entry and its
contribution to the project design. The project was prepared at a time when the Bank's decentralization of
task management and operational responsibilities to field offices was being implemented. The delegation of
the project design responsibility to the country office enhanced in a better understanding of the country and
project area situation and Bank Management took a calculated risk to design a project under a volatile
conflict situation. Subsequently Bank agreed to finance activities in an intense conflict situation with
restricted access for monitoring, relying on project design elements (ICRC/ UNHCR/Sri Lankan Army in
the steering committee/ partnerships/ technical and financial audits) and past local and global experiences.
Apart from ensuring that the project was consistent with national and provincial priorities and the Bank
CAS, wide consultation with key stakeholders in the unique war-damaged and conflict situation, innovation
in project preparation and with the implementation mechanisms, and the building-in of the experience and
lessons learned in other Bank-funded projects in Sri Lanka in the project design, were key elements to the
success of the project.


7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervised the project under very difficult security, logistical and human resources
constraints prevailed in the project area as outlined in Section 3.5 of the ICR. Continuity of Bank staff and
consultants, and of PMU and other project staff, resulted in a good working relationship between Bank
staff, NEPC and participating District and Divisional agencies. Positioning the Task Team Leader in the
field did provide consistent and useful implementation support to project management. In total, the Bank
conducted seven regular implementation review missions and two comprehensive mid-term reviews (MTR).
(Note: Cover Sheet of the ICR, indicates only the date of the second MTR. The first MTR was conducted
in February 2002.) Bank's review missions provided useful guidance in implementation. Bank supervision
played an important role in assisting the Borrower and participating agencies in keeping the project on
track, improving its development effectiveness based on the implementation experience, and were
instrumental in enhancing construction quality management capacity of the implementing agencies and
staff, and introducing the LSA component. The project started slowly with disbursement lagging well
behind for the first two years (22% and 31 % compared to PAD in the first and second years respectively)
and picked-up thereafter increasing to 60% by the end of year 3 and to 92 % by the end of year 5. The


                                                       - 14 -

Bank took a firm yet constructive stance, threatened substantial restructuring of the project and partial
cancellation of the Credit in July 2002 following the first MTR in July 2002 and suspended LSA
disbursements at one point because of ineffective M&E of the LSA sub-component. The Bank, from the
first MTR continuously stressed the importance of having a workable M&E and MIS system, including
putting in place a mechanism for monitoring the performance of NGOs on a regular basis. Supervision
reviews also stressed that capacity building (construction quality enhancement, community mobilization,
LSA planning and implementation, and M&E) was crucial for the success of the project and that an
appropriate strategies were needed including exposure and cross visits. However, the Bank could have been
more proactive in following-up on its recommendations concerning the M&E/MIS systems and
consequently corrective measures were not followed-up. The Bank did not insist on any impact assessment
until almost the end of project implementation and hence the true impact of the project, which is believed to
be positive, is not known.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower utilized this project as a curtain raiser in its endeavour towards establishing
peace and harmony in the region. To achieve this, it devolved full financial and functional autonomy of the
project to NEPC despite the latter's capacity constraints and difficult operating environment in the project
area. A decision was made to finance investments throughout the region, both in the cleared and uncleared
areas, despite hostilities between the two parties. GOSL also agreed and accepted UNHCR and ICRC as
`development partners', and endorsed Memorandums of Understanding between the Bank and UNHCR and
ICRC, without which project implementation would have been difficult. The Borrower appropriately
designed the project to kick-start agricultural production and incomes of conflict-affected communities.
Though the project preparation was constrained due to security reasons, and detailed investigations could
not be done prior to the preparation, GOSL agreed, and provided for, flexibility in the project design.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. NEIAP was the first externally funded project to be implemented through the NEPC.
Unfamiliarity of the NEPC with the procedures the GOSL caused some delay in the first two years of the
project in the release of funds to the NEPC through the MPCLG. The Government's willingness for the
project to be implemented in the LTTE controlled areas provided an opportunity for the project to work
with communities in these areas and has made a substantial contribution towards stability in the region.
The Ministry of Defense, External Resources Department and Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, and
MPCLG provided the policy support, timely allocation of counterpart funding, and strategic guidance from
the center for the successful implementation of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.    As discussed in section 4.2, the overall project management and oversight, project
coordination, financial management, procurement administration, compliance with legal covenants, and
social and environmental safeguards were satisfactory. The project management capacity of NEPC, PMU
and implementing agencies has been progressively strengthened through local and overseas training for
project staff and interactions with Bank task teams. Implementation performance during the first two years
was not entirely satisfactory in part due to security factors but also consequent to problems encountered in



                                                    - 15 -

procurement, difficulties in completing the district social profiles which was a precondition for commencing
disbursements, and unfamiliarity with the procedures for releasing funds through the MPCLG. The support
of MPCLG to the NEPC and PMU during project implementation was credible. PMU completed the
project tasks in time exceeding some of planned physical outputs and outcomes. The PMU's attention to
routine process and impact monitoring and evaluation, and independent impact assessments, was less than
desirable. The quality of civil works was mixed in part due to the PMU not fully acting on the
recommendations of the technical audits and failure in project design to set up a quality control system.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

1.       Delivering assistance directly to communities and forming strategic alliances between key
stakeholders are critical determinants of project success in conflict affected situations. Despite the
constraints in the project area at the time the project was implemented (security, restricted accessibility and
staff/ skill capacity) the project was commendably and successfully implemented. The keys to this success
were the bold initiatives of GOSL, facilitated by the Bank Task Team, to: (i) ensure resources directly
reached the conflict affected people; (ii) create temporary and permanent employment and livelihood
opportunities for them to survive; (iii) anchor the project at the provincial level; and (iv) consult widely and
form strategic alliances with key stakeholders.

2.       Anchoring a project at the provincial level in Sri Lanka increases ownership at the local level
and facilitates project implementation.         NEIAP was the first major donor funded project to be
implemented through the NEPC, despite the staff and capacity constraints of the NEPC. This decision paid
handsome dividends as the project built valuable experience and capacity, strengthened the involvement and
capacity of the districts, and paved the way for other externally projects to be implemented in the province.
Furthermore, the arrangement catalyzed provincial staff to work harmoniously and cooperatively with
central government staff at district level coordinated by the Government Agents.

3.       Innovation and flexibility in project design, initial piloting of project activities, and close and
competent supervision, are important if projects are prepared quickly in conflict affected situations.
Due to the security constraints, conventional project preparation activities (social assessment, institutional
analysis, baseline surveys, and consultation with people) could not be undertaken. The Bank and Borrower
relied on (i) inputs from the main stakeholders and (ii) implementation experience and outcome of activities
piloted in the North-East through an on-going Bank-funded project.

4.       In a conflict situation securing technical assistance to build local capacity is critical. It is
difficult to obtain the necessary technical expertise in a conflict situation and adequate provision should be
made for the contracting of appropriate national and international technical expertise in such situations.

5.       Selecting villages in poorer areas and activities targeted to poor and landless people, ensure
benefits of irrigation-led projects reach communities and families most in need of assistance. Village
selection criteria and the inclusion of specifically targeted activities for the poorer landless people are
important elements of project design to ensure the more remote communities and most needy people can
benefit from irrigation-led interventions.

6.       Livelihood support to women's groups can make a project more inclusive and has


                                                     - 16 -

tremendous potential for alleviating poverty. Supporting livelihood activities through women's groups
can be an effective instrument for reaching poor and vulnerable households, including landless families, and
has a great potential for alleviating poverty.

7.      CBOs need sufficient training and technical back-up to sustain project created assets. To
sustain income generation activities supported through a project requires training in how to improve and
sustain these activities; projects should assist CBOs to establish workable links with the government
agencies that have the technical know-how and can facilitate marketing linkages. To sustain village
infrastructure improved or created through a project, it is essential that CBOs receive adequate training in
O&M and that there are clear policies with respect to what they are responsible for. In conflict affected
situations, the understandable need for rapid results should not over-ride capacity building.

8.      Continuous monitoring and assessing of project processes and impact with beneficiary
participation,    should be part of project M&E and MIS systems.                Continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the project processes and impact with the participation of the beneficiaries will assist
management to ensure that limited project resources are being used to the best effect in terms of the project
objectives and that poor households also benefit from the project. Should independent agencies be
contracted for M&E or impact assessment such agencies should be technically competent and have the
confidence of both the Borrower and the Lender. Close supervision of M&E by the Lender is desirable.

9.          It is not sufficient to have technical auditing without a clearly defined practical quality
management system in place.           Technical auditing can enhance the diligence and accountability of
engineering quality of designs and construction of community level civil works. The contracting of
technical auditors is of limited value unless a results-oriented quality assurance and management system
has been developed and established as an in-built institutional arrangement in the project design

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower provided comments on draft ICR and is provided in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:

NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments were invited from all partner agencies (UNHCR, ICRC and all participating NGOs). Two
major partner NGOs (Sewa Lanka Foundation and Sarreram National Sri Lanka Foundation) provided
comments before the finalization of the ICR. See Annex 10 for unedited comments of the two NGOs.


10. Additional Information

See Annexes.

Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary (unedited).

Attached is an unedited summary of the Borrower's Evaluation Report.

This PCR was prepared by PMU as a Borrowers' assessment on project design, implementation,
supervision and monitoring of outcome, impacts and the lessons learned and to be submitted for the review
of the ICR Mission of the World Bank.



                                                    - 17 -

The Project Development Objective is in conformity with the GOSL's policy on rehabilitation, poverty
reduction strategy, agriculture development and rural development and also in line with the WB's CAS
objective.

The project implementation design was appropriate, had a clear time frame regarding the entry and exit of
the various agencies with an integrated area based approach with community participation as the main
feature.

NEIAP performed satisfactorily in achieving the Project Development Objective. Completing 321 irrigation
schemes, 1219 km rural roads, 694 drinking water wells, 369 community centre buildings and 18,000 LSA
projects have adequately contributed to the PDO as physical achievements. The balance activities could be
completed at the time of implementation closure of June 30th, 2005. The project disbursed the Credit fully.

The procurement administration and financial management of the project is satisfactory. Meanwhile it has
successfully completed financial and technical auditing arrangements and other oversights, all legal
covenants and agreed actions with the WB.

The project qualitative achievements indicate in line with major impact areas of population reached,
increased agriculture productivity and production, employment generation, and institutional development.

The design and implementation strategies were found to be appropriate and substantially adequate.
However during implementation, some areas were re-adjusted as new additions.

During the second year of implementation for the reason of addressing all the families in any particular
focal village the micro income generation project (LSA) component was introduced.

The implementation experience clearly shows that at the initial stage the progress suffered considerably and
was not satisfactory as the project had to undergo staff problems, restriction of entry in to some areas etc.
But after 2002, the project has been able to enter into a satisfactory favorable situation, as it improved to a
no risk position.

Project has made necessary sustainable arrangements for project created assets, awareness to CBOs
through NGOs and arranging initial deposit of 7.5 % as a reserve for O&M arrangements, etc. were steps
taken towards this effect. However, the further training to empower CBOs is proposed so that proper
implementation of O&M plans could be undertaken.

.The technical capacity of the North-East Provincial Council was not adequate enough to implement the
project during the initial stage. Therefore, recruiting technical staff on contract basis helped immensely to
solve this problem. The project has completed all staff appointments, procurement of vehicles, equipment
and conducting training at a considerable cost to all implementing agencies and PMU on time.

During the project period, the WB conducted nine supervision missions and in many aid memories, the
achievements under the project have been rated as satisfactory. The borrower's achievements in the field of
physical, financial as well as conceptual development, monitoring and evaluation etc are satisfactory as
rated by WB.

The performance of the Bank during design, preparation of projects, appraisal and implementation, timely
clearing of all procurement documents, and taking follow-up actions etc, were found to be satisfactory.


                                                     - 18 -

The Bank added significant value to the project during design and its implementation with necessary
technical inputs and having experts in the missions.

Key Impacts of the Project

Population reached: It was the estimated that the project benefits would reach about 55,000 (at appraisal
24,000) families (31,000 farm and 24,000 non farm families). The project reached more than double the
targeted families and the total population at appraisal, totaling about 275,000 populations of which
123,750 men and 151,250 women centered around 378 small & medium irrigation schemes.

Increased agriculture productivity and production: The project has already brought 16,800 (ha) in to
cultivation after rehabilitation of 321 irrigation schemes out of total 378. The total target area under tanks
indicates 25,750 of which 85% has already been reached. The balance could be achieved after completing
the work which is nearing completion in another 57 irrigation tanks before the credit closure. Resumption
of paddy production has started in rehabilitated schemes. Accordingly, sustainable production has been
achieved. But agriculture is still needed incentives; input supply and other services under normal program
of the Department of Agriculture where the quality of services provided are poor and needs improvement.
However the achievement indicates 66%, which is rather satisfactory. Other than paddy, OFC production is
also satisfactory. The situation in project focal villages has led to improved food security but improved
living condition due to increased income from agriculture (paddy) is yet to be realized.

The increased service capacity at village level: With the rehabilitation rural roads the families living in
focal villages have been able to enjoy their traveling and transport convenience by getting better access to
their paddy fields, market places, main roads and other service providing institutions such as schools,
Health Centers Cooperatives and postal services etc. However, the transport of agriculture inputs and
agriculture produce to and form project focal villages is yet to be developed. The project has provided
enhanced access to safe drinking water facilities by which way it has been addressing the needs of health
and sanitation aspect of people in focal villages.

Community buildings too have paved the way for improved access to basic infrastructure and social
services such as conducting meetings, health clinics, nursery schools and other social gatherings through
which way the people have been able to re-establish relationships which had been split up due to conflicting
war situation for the last 15-20 years.

Employment generation: The project has provided an opportunity for employment generation in temporary
and permanent ways to support life activities in villages. Temporary cash injection in to rural economy
through labor work in civil work activities has had a quick incentive to sustain life from the very beginning.
Accordingly, the project has provided 3.9 m person days as temporary employment through LSA has been
able to gain faith and confidence of the people by addressing community needs of poor landless families.
The LSA has also given an opportunity for women to come forward through their village level institutional
set up. There are 307 WRDSs in 307 villages operating in the North-East. These societies have been able
to assemble 19,987 women in societies operating in 11 districts at the moment.

Other than creating temporary employment, the project has provided opportunities to get permanent
employment in the field of agriculture and LSA projects. In addition, the LSA has already provided
employments to some 19,000 families in the project area. The LSA has also given an opportunity for
women to come forward through their village level institutional set-up under WRDS.

Institutional Development:      The main outcome was rebuilding of trust and self-reliance among the


                                                     - 19 -

communities. This intervention has given communities to be in the "Driver's Seat" and participating fully
in the development process. Initial ground work was completed by PMU to make FOs and RDSs more
responsible with their executive committees by adopting new by-laws so that all community categories
including vulnerable groups and landless got the opportunity to become members. Therefore we now
confirm our conclusion, that the PDO is still relevant and valid and also the achievement is satisfactory.

Key Lessons Learned

Pilots: It has not been possible to implement pilot sub-projects to gain early experience and to learn the
intricacies of implementing development projects in conflict areas with the participation of war- affected
people. This shortcoming contributed to delay in implementation and quality of output in some locations.
As such, it would be prudent to implement sample/pilot sub-projects in selected focal villages in order to
demonstrate the appropriateness of project design and implementation strategies in future projects of
similar scope for the benefit of both implementers and beneficiaries.

Capacity Analysis: At project preparation stage, a proper capacity analysis of each implementing agency
should be carried out in order to assign new staff to execute the project activities speedily and successfully.

Use of project resources: The Project provided incremental staff, vehicles, equipment and training to all
implementing agencies and PMU on time. However, it has been reported that some of implementing
agencies could not utilize these resources quite judiciously for project implementation. This lapse had
contributed to inferior quality of investigation, design, and estimation and construction management in
some focal villages. As such, it would be prudent to maximize the use of project resources by undertaking
periodic verification of usage of project assets.

Follow up of Audit Observations: Finance Division of the PMU would be required to carry out quarterly
test-checks of all important assets and expenses incurred at all vital locations such as offices of DPDs,
Head Offices of IAs, CBOs, etc. PMU should take prompt follow­up action on all audit observations in
order to enhance project performance.

Log-Frame: Adoption of Project Logical Framework must be enforced for planning, designing and
implementation and monitoring of projects with regular reviews at which the key elements can be
reevaluated and adjusted.

Participatory M&E: Participatory monitoring and evaluation process must be enforced with the
participation of higher authorities of GOSL, donors and CBOs.


Community Contribution: It would be necessary that social mobilization process would address this issue
carefully and motivate the beneficiaries to provide the required contributions on time. As such, it is
important that senior level staff too undertake visits/meetings in each focal village during the early stage of
project implementation. This course of action would help immensely for all CBOs and state officials in
order to achieve the project objective substantially.

Inclusion of village political leadership: Besides, during the social mobilization process all local political
leadership must be apprised of the basics of the project implementation strategies in order to solicit their
unstinted support. In the absence local political leadership, it would be difficult for state officials to achieve
the desired results. As such, pocket ­meetings and mini-workshops should be conducted during the social
mobilization phase.



                                                     - 20 -

Small scale civil works contracting: Involvement of sub-contractors of CBOs and assignment of works
under NCB would inhibit beneficiary contributions considerably. This, in turn, would lead to disclaim of
project created assets. As such, it would be prudent to identify and assign simple labor-intensive civil
works in all sub-projects to CBOs under separate contract agreement in order to enable the CBOs to
execute such works collectively. Contractors should be pre-qualified for major works.

Engineer's cost estimates: Estimates for irrigation schemes and rural roads should be prepared giving
priority for structural works limiting the earth work when undertaking constructions rehabilitation
activities. "Work Plan" and "Method Statements" should be prepared based on appropriate technical
approach by showing the sequence of construction activities of different components of each-subproject in
order to ensure successful and effective completion of civil works on time. Penalty Clause should be
included in the Community Contract Agreements. Training of staff and members of CBOs should be
carried out periodically along with SWOT Analysis.

Subproject design and preparation: The relevant senior engineers should both separately and jointly review
all activities connected with investigation, design, framing-up of proposals and construction planning. The
plans and estimates must be duly supported with appropriate design notes, calculations and computations
and other study reports irrespective of the scope and size of sub-projects.

M&E of Social Mobilization process: Social Mobilization process needs to be closely monitored to
ascertain that the CDD approach is appropriately adopted. The communities need to be allowed adequate
time to come into agreements with the implementers. This is very vital in order to ensure that high degree of
participation of beneficiaries during all phases of project cycle. The Community Development Cycle in
each village needs to be monitored closely and the time allocated for each phase should be adjusted to
enhance the preparedness of the community to face with new challenges.

Sustainability: In order to ensure such long-term serviceability of the project-created and rehabilitated
assets, it is paramount that quality of design and construction of all sub-projects must be given utmost
attention. Some suggestions are: (a) Implementation of pilot sub-projects to demonstrate the expected
overall quality of all sub-projects at completion of implementation; (b) Exposure visits to well-performing
sub-projects/pilot sub-projects to instill good discipline and commitment to design and execute sturdy and
durable structures/sub-projects; (c) Enforcing mandatory testing of all materials and works at different
stages of implementation; (c) Enforcing usage of proper machinery, equipment, tools and qualified and
experienced workforce at all locations; (d) Maintenance of quality assurance record keeping (OK Cards)
and log-book entries supported with digital photographs and video films; (e) Enforcing certification of
payments based on joint-measurements of materials and works by PMU, DPOs, IAs & CBOs, and
contractors; (f) Provision of appropriate training to all staff and members of CBOs/contractors in
construction management periodically; and (g) Implementation of suitable rewards/bonus scheme for high
quality sub-projects. (Officials should receive additional foreign training and CBOs to receive additional
development sub-projects?)

Sustainability of Project Assets: It would be prudent to enforce at least the following measures in order to
ascertain that the project created assets would continue to serve the beneficiaries for a long period of time.
The measures to be adopted would include: (a) Creation of awareness among all beneficiaries and state
officials on design and implementation of appropriate O&M strategies for all sub-projects during social
mobilization stage onwards; (b) Participatory design of an implement able O&M plan for each sub-project
including of resources required and methods of mobilization of such resources; (c) Formation of an
effective sub-group of beneficiaries comprising of dedicated members to undertake O&M responsibilities


                                                     - 21 -

as decided at the design stage; (d) Assigning overseeing responsibilities of implementation of the approved
O & M plan to a suitable state agency with measurable indicators to ensure successfulness; (e) Supply of
suitable tools and implements including of mechanical devices to the CBOs must be pursued vigorously (
Weed- Cutters; Hand-Compactors, Wheel Barrows, Bush-Knifes etc; (g) Provision of low-cost technical
services to the CBOs through NGOs also would be pursued as the available state agency personnel would
be chiefly engaged in new development works on priority basis; and, (h) Participatory monitoring of the
project created assets should become a routine affair of the NEPC agency concerned.

Future operations

NEIAP was the first attempt taken by World Bank and the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to develop
conflict affected areas in the country. The project was taken on to its track when the conflict was on going.
It ran up to the beginning of year 2002 with the conflict but thereafter, no conflict situation prevails.
Therefore, unlike the project design stage, the future operational arrangements would be in no conflict
situation for which the Project Operation Plan has been prepared.

The Project Operation Plan of NEIAP contains the proposed Strategy and the Action Plan for the
completion of some residual activities considered to be extremely essential to maximize project
development effectiveness and sustain its benefits beyond credit closure of October 31st, 2005. The
strategy proposed is based on the experience of the project and the implementation procedure and
methodologies of the residual activities that would proceeded from March 31st onward say still June 30th,
2005 to reach the full completion level. Accordingly there will be 3 main activities in the Project Operation
Plan which are stated as follows.

1        Completion of District-wise balance activities in project focal villages (Civil works and LSA)

2        Financial disbursement plan to spend the balance money available.

3        Sustainability arrangements for project created assets. Prepare O & M plans, Handing-over
documents, Institutional preparations for sustainable arrangements and hand-over items to communities and
withdraw from villages. (Release of retention will appear in the financial plan)


Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)




Annex 10. Comments of Participating NGOs (unedited)




                                                                                                   Oct. 27, 05

Dear Mr. Harrold,

                   Sri Lanka- North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (Cr 3301 CE)



                                                    - 22 -

                                                 Draft ICR

Thanks for your letter of 26 September 2005 briefing us about ICR relating to the NEIAP (Cr 3301 CE)
and requesting our comments on it. In this connection, I wish to inform you that the NEIAP gave us a great
opportunity to serve the conflict affected communities in the north-east and adjoining districts, and also
cross-fertilize our social mobilization experience in the above geographical locations.

In regards to our view on the ICR, we wish to make the following comments:

·        Though the original PD indicated the term "mobilization of communities", it did not provide any
idea relating to the project specific community mobilization process to be adopted by the project. On the
other hand, PMU NEIAP was unable to recruit a local Community Development/Mobilization specialist
during the first couple of months. Since the government stakeholders and PMU staff did not have
familiarity with NGO works/community mobilization process, they were completely confused about the
role of NGOs in NEIAP.

·        SLF therefore strongly feels that project formulation missions should be requested to suggest a
tentative mobilization framework with the PAD that could be finalized later in consultation with NGOs
and/or other actors.

·        Projects of such nature should have a team of professionals highly experienced in community
mobilization & livelihood development projects/programs.

·        This type of crucial projects should have more flexibility to allow NGO partners to also work with
CBOs not controlled by the government departments.

·        Since the sustainability of such projects depends on the institutional capacities of CBOs and since
institutional capacity building process is a lengthy one, projects like NEIAP should consider making
provisions for a longer term NGO involvement.

Apart from the above, we would like thank your institution for initiating such an intervention that helped
most of the government stakeholders in the north-east and adjoining districts to get familiarized with
community driven development approaches.

Thanks for your continued support.

With best personal regards.

Yours' sincerely,
Tapan Barman
FOR
Harsha Navaratne
Chairman




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Annex 1(a) Outcome / Impact             Projected in PAD
 Indicators:
                Indicator                for End of Project  Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased irrigated farming area, Ha
 Area irrigated in Maha season-Tanks          16,000                          25,764
   Area irrigated in Yala season-Tanks          a/                             5153
            Area irrigated by Agro wells        a/                             9220

Increased agricultural production, MT
                                  Paddy       55,000                           90,113

Number of farm families benefited             24,000                           33,250
a/ No PAD estimates



  Annex 1(b) Output Indicators

 Project Components                      Unit           PAD           Revised        Actual/Latest
                                                       Target          Target         Estimate
Service capacity of project schemes     Number
improved/ restored (cumulative by
year end)
                                  2000                   40                               0
                                   2001                 100                              38
                                   2002                 220                              77
                                   2003                 350                              162
                                   2004                 400                              281
                                   2005                 400             378              369
Command area jump started with          Hectares
irrigated farming as a result of the
project (cumulative by year end)
                                  2000                 1600                               0
                                   2001                4000                             2660
                                   2002                8800                             5390
                                   2003                14,000                          11,340
                                   2004                16,000                          19,670
                                  2005                 16,000                          24,980
Active participation of                 Numbers
communities/CBOs in planning and
implementation activities
Capacity building in:
               Farmers Organizations                    400                    378      371
         Rural Development Societies                    400                     396      369
Women Rural Development Societies                        b/                     396      317


Construction of Tube/Open wells for                     300                    775      775
drinking water



                                                 - 24 -

Service Capacity of rural roads                   Kms
improved (cumulative by the end of
the year)
                                      2000                         60       0
                                      2001                        240      110
                                      2002                        660     220.5
                                      2003                        1000    638.5
                                      2004                        1200    1135
                                      2005                        1200    1294
Drinking water facilities provided to        Number of
beneficiary families as follows:              benefiting
(cumulative by the end of the year)            families
                                      2000                        200       0
                                      2001                        900       0
                                      2002                        2500    3625
                                      2003                        4000    5475
                                      2004                        6000    15,950
                                      2005                        6000    19,400
b/ Not estimated in PAD as this was included later in the project




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalents)

                                                               Appraisal          Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                Estimate             Estimate            Appraisal
                      Component                               USD million           USD million               %
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes                               12.00                11.63                   97
Community Capacity Building &                                              10.50             14.72                     140
Reconstruction
Feasibility Studies                                                         0.30              0.37                     122
Project Implementation Support                                              5.40              4.80                      89
Project Oversight                                                           0.40              0.59                     147

  Total Baseline Cost                                              28.60                32.10                  112
  Physical Contingencies                                                    1.00              0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                       2.80              0.00
                                Total Project Costs                        32.40             32.10                      99
                        Total Financing Required                           32.40             32.10




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (USD million equivalent)




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (USD million equivalent)




1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
   staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
   to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in USD million equivalents)




                                                               - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits and Rate of Return estimated in PAD

NEIAP provided support for rehabilitating irrigation schemes and building community capacity and other
supporting activities. Economic analysis in PAD focused only on quantifying benefits from increased
irrigated area and/or enhanced crop productivity arising from the irrigation rehabilitation component.
Project impacts arising from rebuilding the community infrastructure and improving livelihood capacity
were considered difficult to quantify, and no quantitative analysis was done of the roads and drinking wells
component.

Economic rate of return was calculated for irrigation rehabilitation for a project life of 20 years at constant
1999 Sri Lankan Rupees at 12% opportunity cost of capital. Parity prices were estimated for the
internationally traded farm commodities and inputs and for others a SCF of 0.85 were used. The ERR was
based on incremental irrigation benefits and costs including the share of project management and oversight.
All other components related costs and benefits were excluded in the analysis.

The PAD economic analysis for the irrigation component rested on the following assumptions; 10% of the
targeted 400 schemes to be rehabilitated in first year and 30% in each of the three following years; 20%
decrease in paddy production over five years in partly operational irrigation schemes without project; and
20% increase in paddy production over five years with project due to increase in area and/or yield; and no
crop diversification. The economic analysis focused only on the expected incremental production of paddy
from the rehabilitated irrigation scheme command areas. For financial analysis, paddy crop models were
formulated for estimating the returns to family labor. No analysis was done for the income generating
activities as these were to be designed in a demand driven mode during implementation and were therefore
impossible to estimate before-project.

The estimated ERR for the irrigation rehabilitation component was 14%. No estimation details are
available in the PAD except mentioning that the ERR was derived from a combination of `without project'
scenarios, viz. not operational and partly operational for the proposed 400 irrigation schemes. The work
files were not available to the ICR mission for objectively comparing the underlying assumptions of the
PAD economic analysis with ICR estimations to adequately explain the reasons for divergences.

ICR Estimation Methodology

Following PAD, economic analysis was conducted for the irrigation rehabilitation component. But unlike in
PAD, ICR quantified the impact of the irrigation rehabilitation investment in bringing more area under
irrigation command, increasing the cropped area in both maha (main wet-season) and yala (dry) seasons,
improving the crop productivity and promoting limited diversification in the scheme commands. The ICR
analysis also covered rural roads, drinking water wells and livelihood support activities (see Financial and
Economic Analysis Working Paper, August 2005, FAO/IC, for details). Overall project analysis was done
by considering the quantifiable benefits from all the above four interventions against the total project costs,
excluding the costs of the feasibility studies, in constant 2005 prices using appropriate deflators and
derived parity prices.

Quantification of incremental benefits arising from various project interventions proved to be a difficult
task The consultant team for the final impact assessment study was contracted only in Feb.2005. Time
constraints for conducting and analyzing field data have limited the usefulness of the study for ICR
analysis. The study did not adequately cover the roads, drinking water and LSA activities, which
constrained ICR assessment of full project benefits. In the absence of a comprehensive benchmark, and
inadequacy of monitoring and impact assessments and related databases, crop budgets were formulated at
ICR based on: (i) available impact assessment survey data; (ii) PMU database; (iii) cost of cultivation data



                                                    - 27 -

published from the Socioeconomics and Planning Centre, Department of Agriculture, Peradeniya; (iv) data
collected from farmer interviews during the ICR mission's field visits. Impact assessment represented a
sample of 509 farm families from 32 focal villages in seven districts accounting for 10% of the farm
families in the selected villages. PMU database covered a sample of 239 irrigation schemes in ten project
districts covering 63% of the rehabilitated irrigation schemes. Using the sample irrigation scheme
characteristics before and after project, shifts in area and cropping pattern are quantified for formulating
scheme models to capture the project level impacts.




Irrigation Rehabilitation

The targeted area for rehabilitation was 400 irrigation schemes with a combined command of 16,000 ha.
Incremental benefits arise from increased command area, irrigated area, cropping intensity, productivity
and limited crop diversification. As per ICR mission estimations: (a) 321 irrigation schemes are
rehabilitated and 57 are nearing completion with a combined command area of 24,980 ha; (b) irrigated area
increased to 26,582 ha covering paddy and other field crops in both maha and yala seasons; (c) cropping
intensity increased to 132%; (d) paddy productivity increased to 3.9 t/ha; and (e) crop diversification to
high value crops like vegetables has occurred in 2% of the command area. With the average farm holding
size of 0.66 ha for the project area, 33,250 farm families have benefited under the irrigation rehabilitation
component.

Returns to investment in irrigation rehabilitation are estimated using an aggregate scheme model. The
ICR-estimated changes in scheme command, crop area (Table 1), crop yield and net income (Table 2)
between with and without project situations are used to assess the incremental benefits due to the
rehabilitation investment.

Crop budgets for paddy - being the major crop cultivated in both the maha and yala seasons - were
formulated for rainfed, partially and fully irrigated cultivation. Crop budgets were also prepared for (i)
major rainfed crops like green gram, black gram and cowpea (which occupy more than half of the area
under other food crops); and (ii) major vegetable crops like chillies, onion, brinjal and tomato (which
dominate the irrigated high value crops in the project area).




Livelihood Support Activities

Livelihood support activities accounted for 16% of the project costs. They were introduced after the first
MTR to support landless, women and other households not benefited by the irrigation investments. ICR
evaluated six major LSA categories, which received 70% of the loan disbursed in the first cycle, based on
66 case studies conducted in 41 villages in seven districts. Small shops, water pumps and goats activities
have the highest ERR ranging from 92 to 108% and shortest payback period of two to six months. The
ERR for highland cultivation and draft bulls is 59% each with short pay back periods of 5 to 9 months.
Cows are not viable due to the adoption of locally bred cows with characteristically low milk yields.

Water pumps, small shops and goats generated net incremental income ranging from Rs 1800 to 2050 per
month per beneficiary family. The official poverty line for Sri Lanka is Rs 1736 per month per capita



                                                     - 28 -

(2005 prices). Hence, the poverty alleviation potential of LSA in vulnerable households in the project area
where poverty incidence varies from 17 to 32% is striking. But due to limitations in the impact assessment
database, the multiplier effects, equity impacts and poverty alleviation impacts could not be quantified.
Furthermore, full potential benefits of LSA are yet to be realized due to inadequate technical and
institutional support to the beneficiaries. Low recovery rates and LSA coverage has implications on the
sustainability over the longer term of the livelihood activities supported through the project, and on the
sustainability of the revolving funds managed by the WRDSs established through the project.

Rural Roads Rehabilitation

The project invested 20% of the costs rehabilitating 1,294 km of rural roads. Based on the limited coverage
of available PMU database covering 1,023 km of rehabilitated rural roads in ten districts, ICR has
estimated some 83,250 households (341,000 persons) directly benefited under this component.
Beneficiaries have improved access to agricultural land and/or markets and other facilities like schools and
hospitals. No analysis was done for roads in PAD and no comprehensive impact assessment was done by
the PMU. Hence ICR assessed the switching value of incremental economic returns from road
rehabilitation to generate a minimum rate of return of 12% to the investment in roads rehabilitation
component. This worked out to Rs 111 m or Rs 86,000 per km, which was then compared to impact
assessment of road rehabilitation in similar Bank projects in South Asia. Even after appropriate
adjustments downwards for population density and land intensity to make it comparable to the North East
Sri Lanka project situation, it was found that annual incremental net benefits from savings in costs, time
and access to market, due to road rehabilitation will bring in at least Rs 112,000 per km, which is 30%
higher than the estimated switching value. Thus ICR assessed ERR of at least 12% can be considered a
conservative estimate and best judgement in the absence of any impact assessment data.

Drinking Water

Construction of 776 wells/tubewells received 3% of the project costs but substantially contributed to
improved supply of drinking water in the benefiting rural communities. Based on the PMU database
covering 621 drinking water wells in ten districts, ICR estimated that 23,300 households with a population
of 95,500 have directly benefited. Field surveys during the mission's visit, and experience in similar
projects elsewhere in South Asia, revealed that 1 to 2 hours per day per beneficiary family is saved due to
improved access to drinking water over a period of 180 days annually. Assuming an opportunity cost at the
average of the peak and off season wage rates in agriculture of Rs 8.50 per hour, and a time saving per
beneficiary of one hour per day, the annual economic benefits due to drinking wells is estimated at Rs 30.3
m. Actual value of time saved could be higher than this in view of the substantial impact the project has
had in increasing gainful employment opportunities for landless and poor households in the project area
through (i) improved irrigation coverage, cropping intensity and productivity along with scope for
diversification subject to opening up of market opportunities and (ii) more income generating opportunities
through LSA.

Economic Returns

The estimated ERR in PAD for irrigation rehabilitation was 14% at constant 1999 prices. At ICR, the
ERR for the irrigation scheme rehabilitation has come down to 10.5% (see following section for the reasons
for this). ICR estimated the ERR for drinking water wells at 19.1%. Financial net return with the project is
estimated at Rs 14,131 per ha of cropped area, which is 60% higher than the without-project (WOP)
situation. Net return to family labour is estimated at Rs 554 per day, which exceeds even the agricultural
peak period wage rate as well as off farm wages.The analysis of the Livelihood Supporting Activities
(LSA) is based on the scaling-up of a sample in proportion to the loans disbursed for each of the 6 major



                                                    - 29 -

groups of LSA. The viability and growth of WRDSs are threatened due to: (i) variable low loan recovery
rates ranging from 47 to 84% for the North East districts, and 13 to 54% for the border districts; and (ii)
inadequate membership coverage of the households, varying from 35 to 84% with an overall average of
68%. This underlines the critical importance of sustaining technical and institutional support to improve
group viability for recycling loans and to cover new beneficiaries. Even after limiting the analysis only to
the current coverage, the ERR is attractive at 39.7% for LSA interventions. While investments in irrigation
rehabilitation, roads and LSA are complementary in nature, it is interesting to note that the NPV from LSA
(Rs 554 million) is by far the dominating outcome impact among all project interventions significantly
contributing to the overall favorable project ERR of 15.1%.




Reasons for reduced economic returns from irrigation rehabilitation

The project has had a number of greater than anticipated expected economic gains but these have been
more than off-set by a number of changes in the forecasted prices of rice and rural wages, and delays in
carrying out rehabilitation work, which have reduced the economic impact of the project. The greater (at
implementation completion) than expected (at appraisal) economic gains have been: (i) scheme command
area expanded to 21,944 ha, 37% more than the PAD estimate and 11% more than the without-project
command area of the rehabilitated schemes; (ii) irrigated area in both maha and yala seasons, after
rehabilitation, increased to 26,582 ha, 60% more than the PAD estimate; (iii) cropping intensity increased
to 132%, 32% more than the PAD projection; (iv) paddy crop yield increased to 3.9 t/ha, 15% more than
the PAD projection; and (v) crop diversification to high value crops in 2% of the command area as against
nil in PAD.

Positive gains are more than offset by a number of factors which have had a negative impact of the
economic impact of the irrigation rehabilitation works: (i) delayed rehabilitation of irrigation schemes -
irrigation schemes rehabilitated cumulatively as compared to PAD varied from 0% in 2000, 46% in 2003
and 70% in 2004 and hence significantly delayed realization of incremental benefits; (ii) nominal wage rate
for agricultural labor increased to Rs 250/person-day, 92% more than the wage rate used in the PAD; and
finally (iii) decline in the projected world price for paddy by 11% as compared to the projected price used
in PAD.

The combined affect of all of these positive and negative factors has resulted in the ICR estimate for
economic return on irrigation scheme rehabilitation investment to be lower than in the PAD (11% against
14%)




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                               No. of Persons and Specialty                      Performance Rating
                                                   (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)              Implementation Development
                      Month/Year         Count                Specialty                              Progress        Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                 09/30/1998                           3     TTL (1); Co-TTL (1); SS (1)
                 02/27/1999                          11     TTL (1); WRE (1); LC (1); PS
                                                            (1); FMS (1); E (2); A (1); IE
                                                            (1); ExS (1); LiS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                 10/22/1999                           9     TTL (1); Co-TTL (1); FMS
                                                            (1); PS (1); PA (1); SDS (1);
                                                            PE (1); DO (1); LC (1)

 Supervision
                 11/04/2000                            7    IE (1); SS (1); SDS (1); FMS                S               S
                                                            (1); PS (1); EnS (1); TA (1)
                 04/07/2001                            2    TTL (1); CD (1)                             S               S
                 01/19/2002                            3    TTL (1); SDS (1); WRE (1)                   S               S
                 01/19/2002                            4    TTL (1); SDS (1); EnS (1); SSS              S               S
                                                            (1)
                 11/29/2002                            8    TTL (1); C0-TTL (1); SDS (1);               S               S
                                                            PS (1); FMS (1); DCS (1); MCS
                                                            (1); PS (1)
                 12/19/2003                            8    TTL (1); SDS (1); PS (1); FMS               S               S
                                                            (1); PCOS (1); CDDS (1); DCS
                                                            (1); RRE (1)
                 05/12/2004                            7    TTL (1); SDS (1); PS (1); CDDS              S               S
                                                            (1); DCS (1); FMS (1); LSS (1)
                 05/12/2004                            8    TTL (1); SDS (1); PS (1); DCS               S               S
                                                            (1); FMS (1); LSS (1); CDDS
                                                            (1); MIS/M&ES (1)

 ICR
                 05/30/2005                          10      ML/E (1); CoML/SDS (1);
                                                             ES (1); RS (1); AE (1);
                                                             IS(1); IE (1); PS (1); EnS
                                                             (1); FMS (1)

A = Agronomist; AE = Agricultural Economist; CD = Country Director; CDDS = Community Driven Development Specialist;
CoML = Co-Mission Leader; Co-TTL = Co-Task Team Leader; DCS = Design and Construction Specialist; DO =
Disbursement Officer; E = Economist; EnS = Environmental Specialist; ES = Engineering Specialist; ExS = Extension
Specialist; FMS = Financial Management Specialist; IE = Irrigation Engineer; IS = Implementation Specialist; LC = Legal
Counsel; LiS = Livestock Specialist; LSS = Livelihood Support Specialist; MCS = Micro Credit Specialist; MIS/M&E = MIS
and M&E Specialist; ML = Mission Leader; PA = Project Analyst; PE = Project Economist; PCOS = Post Conflict Operations
Specialist; PS = Procurement Specialist; RRE = Rural Roads Specialist; RS = Rural Sociologist; SDS = Social Development
Specialist; SS = Social Scientist; SSS = Social Safeguards and Risk Specialist; TA = Team Assistant; TTL = Task Team
Leader; WRE = Water Resources Engineer.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                 Actual/Latest Estimate



                                                            - 31 -

                              No. Staff weeks      US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation           57.2            50,500
Appraisal/Negotiation                51.3           111,600
Supervision                         185.9           300,750
ICR                                  14.3            78,650
Total                               308.7           551,500




                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        There are no other social
objectives
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
No other objectives.




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.1 Bank performance                            Rating

Lending                                      HS
Supervision                                  S
Overall                                      S


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating

Preparation                                  S
Government implementation performance        S
Implementation agency performance            S
Overall                                      S




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Implementation Completion Review Mission Draft Aide-Memoire, April 30, 2005, FAO/IC
2.      Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper, August 2005, FAO/IC
3.      Project Appraisal Document, Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project, World Bank
Report no. 19859-CE, November 4, 1999
4.      Project Agreement and Development Credit Agreement, World Bank
5.      DCA Amendments, World Bank, dated January 28, 2002 and May 9, 2003.
6.      Supervision Mission Reports NEIAP, World Bank, (7 from November 2000 to October 2004)
7.      Draft final report of North East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP) Impact Assessment Study,
2005. Project Directorate, NEIAP, North East
        Provincial Council, Trincomalee.
8.      Mid Term Review Reports NEIAP, World Bank (January 2002 and June 2003)
9.      AgStat Volume 1 Pocket Book of Agricultural Statistics, 2004. Socio-Economics and Planning
Centre, Department of Agriculture, Peradeniya.
10.     Cost of cultivation of agricultural crops 2003/04 Maha, Socio-Economics and Planning Centre,
Department of Agriculture, Peradeniya.
11.     Cost of cultivation of agricultural crops 2003/04 Yala, Socio-Economics and Planning Centre,
Department of Agriculture, Peradeniya.
12.     Food Information Bulletin, Monthly review of production and market situation of major food
commodities, January/march 2005, Marketing, Food Policy
        and Agri. Business Division, hector Kobbekaduwa Agrarian Research and Training Institute,
Colombo.
13.     Administration Report 1999 to 2004, Department of Agriculture (North-East Province),
Trincomalee, Sri Lanka.
14.     Official Poverty Line for Sri Lanka in 2002, Department of Census and Statistics, Government of
Sri Lanka, June 2004.
15.     Household Income and Expenditure Survey 2002, Basic Information at District Level, Department
of Census and Statistics, January 2004




                                                    - 35 -

- 36 -

