E929
SRI LANKA                   VOL. 2
NORTH-EAST IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(NEIAP)
Funded by WORLD BANK
Implemented by NORTH-EAST PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS & RISKS
ASSESSMENT AND MANAGAEMANT FRAMEWORK
Prepared by
Project Management Unit (NEIAP)
North-East Provincial Council
Trincomalee - Sri Lanka
Cleared by WORLD BANK



Contents
Page
Foreword                                                             1- 2
Chapter -LI  Introduction                                            3
Conflict torn Sri Lanka                                 3
Impacts of the Conflict                                 3
Government Support to Conflict Affected People          4
The Current Status of the North East                    4
The World Bank's Role - conflict and post conflict situation  5
Social Safeguards and Risks associated with NEIAP       7
CAaprer 2.  Social Safeguards Issues - Involuntary Resettlement      8
The World Bank Policy - Operational Policy 4.12         8
OP 4.12 and NEIAP                                       8
NEIAP's activity portfolio                              9
Chapter 3.
The World Bank Policy on Indigenous people              10
Operational Directive 4.20                              10
O D 4.20 and NEIAP                                      11
Extend of the Issue                                     11
I P Village                                             11
Plan of Action                                          12
The World Bank Policy on Cultural Heritage              12
Operational Manual Statement on Cultural Heritage       12
Social Risks                                            13
Legal Protection of Owners' Rights and Grievance Redressal  16
Ch'         Monitoring & Evaluation: An Extended Agenda              22
Framework of Implementation Monitoring                  22
A Land register to form a part of Village Social Profile  22
Strengthen SMO dispute resolution skills                22
2



Sensitization workshops on land issues                 22
Boxes
1. North East Irrigated Agriculture Project            6-7
2. Indigenous Peoples                                   10 -11
3. Agrarian Development Act                             17
Attachmenits
1. District Social Profile
2. (a) List of participants of project stake holders' workshop on social
safeguard issues - Ampara District
(b) List of participants of project stake holders' workshop on social
safeguard issues - Batticaloa District
(c) List of participants of World Bank Review Mission workshop on
social safeguard issues -
3. Operational Policy 4.12 -Involuntary Resettlement
4. Operational Directive 4.20- Indigenous Peoples
5. Revised by laws of Farmers' Organization
6. Landownership Categories in Sri Lanka
7. Framework of Implementation Monitoring - Social and Institutional
Aspects
8. M & E Frame work
9. NEIAP land monitoring records
Land use Titles
Land Encroachment and Dispute Resolution
3



Foreword
The compilation of a comprehensive Implementation and Monitoring
framework (IMF) was a pre-requisite agreed upon with the World Bank, the
funding agency of NEIAP. Accordingly following the agreements reached further
during CPR mission (May-June 2001) and thereafter, the PMU, with assistance
from the World Bank prepared this manual. This is aimed at creating a larger
awareness about the current and potential social safeguards / risks and the
mechanism to address them among the stakeholders in general and the field level
project functionaries in particular.
The manual among others comprises of an expanded Framework of
Implementation and Monitoring (FIM) along with tools and mechanism
developed to identify and monitor safeguard and risk issues and the mitigatory
measures there of.
Though the manual has been developed chiefly keeping NEIAP in mind, its
scope, relevance and utility are rather general and will prove as a useful tool for
all land based projects in the ensuing times.
I therefore would like to thank the staff of the World Bank, particularly
Mr.Nihal Femando, Task Team Leader of NEIAP, World Bank, Colombo and
Dr.Suryanarayanan Satish, Community Development Specialist, World Bank,
India, for the invaluable advices and guidance given in designing and compiling
the manual.
My thanks are also due to Mr.P.Ramanathan, Project Director, of NEIAP for
the initiative taken in directing his staff, specially Mr.H.K.S.Hettiarachchi,
Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, who undertook the task from
collection of information to final editing of the report, in which there were many
other intermediatories whom had been contacted by him for necessary
information.
Among them were MR.G,Kirushnamurthy, Former Chief Secretary, North
East Province, Mr.N.P.K.Nelumdeniya, Govemment Agent, Trincomalee,
Mr.H.A.Ariyadasa, Government Agent, Moneragala, Mrs. Thanuja Murugashan,
Provincial land Commissioner, North East Province, Mr.B.R.Senarathne,
Assistant Commissioner (legal) Land Commissioner's Department, Colombo,
Mr.B.M.Ariyarathne, Assistant Commissioner lands, Kachcheri, Trincomalee,
Mr.A,A,Bawa, Deputy Project Director, NEIAP, Kachcheri, Ampara,
Mr.A.C.Vinotharajah,  Deputy  Project  Director,  NEIAP,   Batticaloa,
Mr.S.Samithambi, Assistant Commissioner, Agrarian Development, Batticaloa,
Mr.V.Velumylum, Divisional Secretary, Town &    Gravets, Trincomalee,
Mr.Elamaldeniya, Agrarian Development Officer (Head Quarters) Dept. of
Agrarian Development, Trincomalee, whose support had been extended to
1



Mr.Hettiarachchi was unforgettable. I thank them all for their valuable support to
prepare this manual.
S.Rangarajah - Chief Secretary,
North East Provincial Council,
Chairman - Project Steering Committee,
NEIAP.
2



Chapter 1
INTRODUCTION
Conflict torn Sri Lanka
1.    For nearly two decades Sri Lanka in general, and its Northern and Eastern
Provinces in particular have been suffering from a devastating conflict between the Armed
forces of the Government and Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). The conflict
induced war has taken an enormous toll on the country's human and financial resources,
physical assets and social capital. It has taken nearly about 64,000 lives, resulted in
displacing over 1,000,000 people and deteriorating social and economic infrastructure,
mainly in the Northern and Eastern provinces (hereafter called North-East in this
document). The social and economic costs of the war as well as missed opportunities for
the country and the affected people are enormous.
2.    The war has divided the North and East region into two zones such as areas under
the administrative control of the Government (called as "cleared" areas by the Armed
forces) and areas not under the Government control but controlled by the LTTE
("uncleared" areas).  These areas over the past have moved back and forth from
Government control to LTTE control indicating intense continuous conflict situation.
Impacts of the Conflict
3.    The project complied District Social Baseline Profiles as a requirement for project
Appraisal at the beginning of the project. These profiles reflect the situation that existed in
199-2001 and the impact of conflict on people and social and economic infrastructure. A
summary of the profiles in Attachment 1 (In dynamic situation of the conflict area this is
only a snap shot and base line profile). The war displaced a large number of people and
enforced them involuantry to flee from their homes leaving behind their assets including
lands and other private property. Many have been displaced multiple times. While a large
number of families remain intemally displaced (IDPs) within the country, some
unconfirmed number of families have left the country and settled down overseas
permanently and some families have fled to India and now live in and outside refugee
camps in Tamil Nadu state.
4.    Among the IDPs, majority have taken refuge with friends and relatives (for short
periods), whereas the poor and more vulnerable families continued to reside in
government-run welfare camps for relatively long periods of time. With the signing of the
MoU and the expectations for peace, most of the displaced people are returning to their
original settlements and many others expect to return as and when the situation would
become more secure to re-establish their livelihoods.
5.    Livelihood support systems have been seriously disturbed as a consequence of
displacement. Irrigated agriculture used to be the backbone of the economy in the North-
East with nearly two thirds of its pre-war population eking their livelihood from
agricultural farming, livestock rearing and deep sea fishing. The agriculture and domestic
water needs are typically supplied by about 2,400 minor irrigation reservoirs (locally
3



called irrigation tanks) and run-off-river structures (anicuts), about 135 major/medium
tanks and large number of open dug wells scattered over the area.
6.    However, the forced displacement of people from their settlements have left
agricultural land without sufficient resources to maintain cultivation. This situation
coupled with the weakened administrative system and agricultural and agrarian extension
support services have left the irrigation facilities to damage and heavy dilapidation. Most
of these irrigation schemes are either operating at much lower capacity or damaged to the
extent that those cannot store water to allow irrigated farming on the agricultural lands at
optimum levels. In addition, many rural roads that link villagers, and farming and fishing
communities to irrigation schemes and nearby townships and market centers are heavily
dilapidated. Large areas of productive farm lands and previously inhabited areas are
reported to have been heavily mined.
Government support to conflict-affected people
7.    The Government of Sri Lanka was ever interested in re-integrating the affected
people with social and economic mainstream. However, till recently, Government's
administrative delivery systems in the North-East were weak due to lack of man power
and constraints on mobility due to security restrictions. Hence, the Government, with the
help of UN agencies and international and national NGOs, arranged for relief and
humanitarian assistance to sustain the basic living conditions. Now, with the MOU
signing, there are improvements in mobility and availability of government machinery.
Now attention is focused on resettlement (returning of displaced people to their original
settlements) and relocation (displaced people being relocated in new settlements). The
government policy with regard to relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction aims at bringing
the population affected by the conflict back to productive life by providing basic amenities
to help the people to live with dignity, and to create a physically, economically, and
socially sustainable environment for their re-integration. Priority is given to reviving
irrigated agriculture production as the returning displaced families would depend on
agriculture as their main source of income. This is followed by employment generation
through micro enterprises and small scale reconstruction. Several International External
Bilateral and Multilateral agencies including the World Bank as well as NGOs are
complementing the government's efforts with technical and financial assistance to help
jump starting the lives of returnees and relocates.
The Current Status of the North-East
8.    With the signing of the MOU in early 2002 between the Government and LTTE on
the cease-fire, the security situation in the North-east has significantly improved. Under
the agreement, both sides agreed to stop offensive operations and allow unarmed
combatants access to each other's territory. Paramilitary groups have been disarmed and
agreement reached that the civilian population will not be harassed by either armed party.
The cease-fire, monitored by a team of Scandinavians, has been the longest to hold so far
and reopen the space for a negotiated settlement. The military has begun vacating schools
and public buildings while the Government lifted the economic embargo on LTTE-
controlled territory. The LTTE established political offices in military controlled areas in
an effort to participate in the political process.
4



9.    Formal negotiations between the two parties held in Oslo has been completed
successfully. Discussions have centered around interim arrangements for the North East
Province under a proposed LTTE-led administration. The Government plans to introduce
a policy of asymmetrical devolution where the interim administration would be given
extensive powers in education, health care, rural development and infrastructure. This
situation has raised optimistic expectations that there would be a favorable settlement to
the long standing conflict in the foreseeable future. In this interim period, the Government
plan to facilitate the transition to sustainable peace by providing unprecedented assistance
to the North-East to bring normalcy, stable political, social, and economic infrastructure,
thus restoring an enabling environment conducive to productive activities.  In the
immediate time frame, the Govemment plans to expand its support to the:
* Resettlement and relocation of displaced and returning people in their original
settlements or on new lands;
* Provision of permanent houses for the IDPs;
* Repairs / reconstruction to selected items of infrastructure, immediately needed for
the resettled people mainly in the areas of education, health, livestock, agriculture
and fisheries and in lesser extent in the road sector;
*  Provision of equipment in hospitals and schools; and
*  Establishment of income generating activities to special target groups.
The World Bank's Role - Conflict and Post Conflict Situation
10.   The Bank responded to the Government of Sri Lanka's request and approved and
commissioned a Credit Support towards assisting in implementing the North East
Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP) in 1999 (details in Box-1) when the conflict was
still ongoing. This project aims at helping the conflict affected communities in the North
East Province and adjoining areas to reestablish at least a subsistence level of production
and basic community services, through assistance with jump starting agricultural and
small scale reconstruction activities, and to build their capacity for sustainable social and
economic integration. The project, budgeted at US$ 32.4 million, became effective in
March 2000; and is expected to close in June 2005. Implementation is now in the 4th year
and development objective and implementation performance are rated 'satisfactory'. The
project designers were well aware of the risks, including social safeguard issues,
associated with such an intervention and made substantial provision for addressing them.
This included developing a Framework for Implementation and Monitoring (FIM), in
particular to ensure that the potential social safeguard and risk issues are identified,
remedial measures taken, and monitored.
5



Box 1
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
Major project components are aimed at:
* Rehabilitation of the existing Irrigation Schemes, essentially small scale tanks
and diversion weir/ Anicut systems;
* Social mobilization support & capacity building to create sustainable and self
reliant community based organizations (CBOs);
* Rural road rehabilitation to enable mobility of rural communities and to facilitate
the transport of agricultural inputs/outputs;
* Drinking water facilities
* Other Reconstruction activities such as urgent repairs of vital facilities such as
schools, health centers, shelter, sanitation etc; and livelihood support activities
through credit based micro enterprises etc.; and
* Feasibility studies for major / medium irrigation schemes.
The project would reach an estimated 24,000 families totaling about 100,000
people living in approximately 400 villages in the North-East Region. It finances
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and rural roads, provision of drinking water, and
community capacity building activities. Agriculture productivity of an estimated
16,000 hectares will be revitalized by restoring roughly 400 neglected irrigation
schemes. Service capacity of about 1,200 km of priority village roads will be
rehabilitated, connecting rural villages to irrigation schemes and markets and
supporting the transfer of goods, services, and people. About half-a-million families
will receive livelihood support assistance.
Community-based organizations (CBOs) and NGOs play a vital role in
planning and implementation of the project. The project concentrates on "focus
villages" identified through a bottom up, participatory process involving all
stakeholders including CBOs and NGOs. Community services and reconstruction
activities in focused villages are based upon priorities identified by the villagers
themselves. NGOs work closely with the communities to implement project activities
and to monitor and facilitate the transfer of organizational and management skills
and technical knowledge as needed by the villages to become self-reliant.
Community Mobilization strategy is based upon the Comprehensive
Development Framework (CDF) and essentially involves establishing effective
partnerships among the communities, govemment, UN agencies, intemational and
national non-govemmental organizations (NGOs), and the World Bank. While a plan
is prepared for the village as a whole reflecting all the requirements, individual
components are supported by different agencies with a single service delivery at the
6



grassroots. In addition, the project is building capacity within the North-East region
to undertake larger reconstruction activities once the ground conditions become more
favorable.
Total costs for the project are US$32.4 million, to which the government of
Sri Lanka will contribute US$4.0 million and beneficiaries will contribute US$1.4
million.  The US$27 million equivalent interest-free credit is provided to the
govemment of Sri Lanka by the International Development Association (IDA), the
World Bank's concessionary lending affiliate, on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity and a ten-year grace period.
Social Safeguards and Risks Associated with NEIAP
11.   Given the volatile socio-political situation of the project area and the conflict
resultant displacement of a number of households, the NEIAP Preparation Team felt the
need for developing a district-wise baseline social profile (DSPs) as a prerequisite for
effective planning as well as implementation and monitoring of micro level interventions.
Accordingly, the Project Management Unit (PMU) prepared the DSPs during 2001. A
review of the profiles (Attachment-l) raised, among others, three key issues: (i) identify
people, if any, who are likely to lose lands as a result of the project intervention and plan
for mitigatory measures thereof; (ii) identify indigenous populations, if any, in the project
area and the measures thereof to reach them and (iii) mechanisms to address in the event
of a potential conflict between returning displaced people and those who (might) have
occupied their vacant property. While the first two fall in the realm of the World Bank's
social safeguard policies, the last one relates to 'reputational risks'. Though the latter is
rather external to the project, its implications are too high to be ignored. As the situation
is improving and signs of peace are becoming visible, more and more displaced people are
returning for resettlement. This has also necessitated the need for expanding the initially
designed FIM to render effective monitoring of social safeguards and risks.
12.   Given the significance of the above issues, project recognized the need for creating
larger awareness about the current and potential social safeguards/ risks and the
mechanisms to address them among the stakeholders in general, and the field level
functionaries, in particular.  Towards this, PMU organized initially district-level
workshops with participation by all the relevant stakeholders. Summaries of such district
workshops were then discussed at a day-long project-level workshop with participation by
all key stakeholders during June 2002 (List of Participants in Attachment 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d).
13.   A detailed account of the outcomes emerged so far is summarized below.
Essentially, this note reflects on: (i) triggering, or otherwise, of the Bank's three social
safeguard issues Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, Operational
Directive (OD) 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, and Operational Manual Statement (OMS) on
Cultural Heritage; and (ii) encroachment resultant reputational risks. This publication has
5 chapters. Chapter 1, this chapter, serves as an Introduction. An operational framework
for addressing social safeguards is presented in Chapters 2 and 3. The former covers
Involuntary Resettlement and the latter Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage. Social
risks are discussed in Chapter 4. An expanded FIM along with tools and mechanisms
7



developed to identify and monitor safeguard and risk issues and the mitigatory measures
thereof are presented in Chapter 5.
Chapter 2
Social Safeguard Issues -- NEIAP's Operational Framework
The World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement:
Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 (Attachment 3)
14.   This operational policy (Attachment-3) covers direct economic and social impacts
that both result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in
(i)  relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or
(iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons
must move to another location; and
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons. 
15.   In other words, the OP triggers when the state uses its powers to acquire land
involuntarily from its owners or customary users. As an example, the policy triggers
when the state takes land for a development project, such as a dam, a road system, power
plant or factory, or other infrastructure. In the policy, 'involuntary' means that the action
of acquiring land and other assets "may be taken without the displaced person's informed
consent or power of choice." That is to say, the owner or customary proprietor has no
effective recourse, administrative or judicial, when the state decides that his or her
property is required for the development initiative. In practice, several supplementary
rules can be involved in triggering of O.P. 4.12. First, the project must be site or location
specific; thus, national land reform programs do not fall under OP 4.12. Also, land
acquisition must be intended for the proposed initiative; thus, urban land regularization
that precedes a Bank-financed initiative is not subject to OP 4.12. Further, intent often
connotes a connectedness in time; the closer the sequence of decisions, the likelier O.P.
4.12 would trigger. Now, let us examine whether OP 4.12 triggers in the case of NEIAP.
O.P. 4.12 and NEIAP.
16.   The circumstances of NEIAP are distinctly different from those of most projects
where OP 4.12 triggers in that the state is not, ostensibly, acquiring land for a
development activity. Rather, civil strife caused widespread displacement and a corollary
deterioration in productive infrastructure. Population displacement over the past 20 years
1 The second set of circumstances, namely, "the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons," is not
relevant in the NEIAP project area.
8



has greatly changed the demographic profile of the rural (and urban) areas. Large areas
are completely depopulated today, while other areas have absorbed large numbers of
internally displaced, either in camps or in towns and villages in more secure areas. The
cessation of hostilities and the promise of the on-going peace process make it now
possible for displaced populations to return to their original, or other, areas as they wish.
NEIAP is simply assisting farmers who either remained in their present villages, returned
to their original villages, or joined host villages, to restart agricultural production.
17.   O.P. 4.12 triggers only in the instance where the state acquired land involuntarily
from the owner, who had no course of legal redress. This situation (probably) could arise
only in the northern part of the project area where the then de facto state expelled the
Muslim population, and, thus, acquired their lands involuntarily.  This action alone is
insufficient to trigger OP 4.12, for the original owners must also lack choice, which in this
situation would mean subsequent legal redress. In any case, Sri Lanka has a strong set of
land laws and a functioning judicial system that would protect individuals' interests in
land implementation modalities discussed in later sections. Importantly in this regard,
Government officers from all regions of the country maintain that property rights and
property laws are respected throughout the country, including the Jaffna area. Further,
there is a national law (REPPIA) that specifically protects the interests of displaced
persons. Under these circumstances of a functioning administrative and legal system, O.P.
4.12 would not trigger because prior owners would have administrative and judicial
recourse to regain their previous lands. On a more theoretical level, it also warrants noting
that the expulsion was general rather than site-specific, and that the intent of the expulsion
had nothing to do with freeing land for the current project.
18.   NEIAP's activity portfolio comprises of:
*  rehabilitating village tanks for irrigated agriculture,
*  rebuilding needed infrastructure such as rural roads,
*  mobilizing the rural population in the focal villages for collective action in
development activities, and
*  supporting a suite of livelihood support activities (LSA) to provide supplementary
income to the poor and vulnerable segments of the population.
Given this activity menu, the question of triggering of the policy to NEIAP will not arise
in the case of roads, social mobilization and LSA components of the project as they do not
require land, which is the trigger for OP 4.12. In the case of rural roads, existing roads are
being rehabilitated. The social mobilization activities of the project foster local
organizational development only. LSAs are meant to assist in grounding income
generating micro enterprises such as livestock, poultry, dairy, agro services, petty trade,
sewing etc which require no lands. 0 P 4.12 could, therefore, arise only in the case of: (i)
re-assigning (if done) of the command area of the rehabilitated tanks; and (ii) tank bed
encroachments.
19.   As there exists a Government circular prohibiting re-assigning of the lands of
displaced persons (discussed in detail in a later section), tank bed encroachments (if any)
necessarily needs to be addressed by the project. Once, a tank is rehabilitated, it is likely
9



that tank bed area will get inundated and the tank bed lands will not be available for
cultivation. This could affect the livelihoods of people dependent on it. Though tank bed
lands are the property of the state, such a situation warrants that the project / state address
the issue. Number of persons involved and the area under tank bed cultivation will be
recorded as a part of the village social profile2 (VSP) by the NGOs3. The project/ state
has agreed that persons affected as a result of the tank bed inundation will be: (i) allowed
to harvest the standing crop before the tank rehabilitation is completed and water is
impounded; and (ii) provided equivalent alternate lands either in the command area (of
technically feasible) of the rehabilitated tank or in the nearby vicinity.
Chapter 3
The World Bank Policy on Indigenous People
Operational Directive 4.20 (Attachment 4)
20.    The Bank's policy on indigenous people as outlined in its Operational Directive
4.20 (Attachment-4) is aimed at ensuring that the development process fosters full respect
for their dignity, human rights, and cultural uniqueness. Essentially, it provides for (a)
ensuring that indigenous people benefit from development projects, and (b) avoid or
mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous people caused by Bank-assisted
activities. Special action is required where Bank investments affect indigenous people,
tribes, ethnic minorities, or other groups whose social and economic status restricts their
capacity to assert their interests and rights in land and other productive resources.
21.    O.D. 4.20 triggers when a minority ethnic or religious group that is usually
characterized by a distinctive culture and language, subsistence production, and political
vulnerability, is affected, directly or indirectly, by project activities (Box-2). In such
instances, the project is required to develop, with the full participation of the indigenous
population, an Indigenous People's Development Plan, that both eliminates any potential
adverse consequences of the development initiative and incorporates the population, to the
extent they desire, as integral beneficiaries of the project initiative. In NEIAP's context,
the OD is triggered and details are in the following sections.
2 Village Social Profile, developed employing PRA/ PNA approaches, are meant to provide baseline
information on social, institutional, economic, and agricultural aspects of the particular village along with
the key issues/ difficulties/ deficiencies thereof.
3NGOs are enlisted in the project to provide social intermediation services to the village communities
10



Box-2
The terms "indigenous peoples," "indigenous ethnic minorities," "tribal groups," and
"scheduled tribes" describe social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct
from the dominant society that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the
development process.  Because of the varied and changing contexts in which
indigenous peoples are found, no single definition can capture their diversity.
Indigenous people are commonly among the poorest segments of a population. They
engage in economic activities that range from shifting agriculture in or near forests to
wage labor or even small-scale market-oriented activities. Indigenous peoples can be
identified in particular geographical areas by the presence in varying degrees of the
following characteristics:
(a) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these
areas;
(b) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural
group;
(c) an indigenous language, often different from the national language;
(d) presence of customary social and political institutions; and
(e) primarily subsistence-oriented production.
22.   OD 4.20 and NEIAP. The project concerns the resuscitation of irrigated
agriculture in focal villages through the repair of tanks that are currently inoperable, the
repair of village roads, and the implementation of assorted livelihood support activities.
In as much as NEIAP concerns intensive agricultural production techniques, which would
not usually be practiced by unacculturated indigenous peoples, and it rehabilitates existing
roads, which would not disturb indigenous peoples any more than had previously been the
case, the concern is whether the project focal villages are the residence of any indigenous
peoples.
23.   Extent of the Issue. There are very few indigenous populations in Sri Lanka,
specifically, the Veddah (or Wanniyala-aetto). Government of Sri Lanka recognizes
"Veddhas" as Indigenous Peoples. However, Veddahs in Sri Lanka are by no means a
homogeneous group, sharing a common religion, language, and culture. They no longer
hunt and gather. Linguistic assimilation and intermarriage with their Sinhalese and Tamil
neighbors have contributed to the decline of the Veddhas as a distinct group. Infact, the
original Veddha language has, to all intents and purposes, ceased to exist.
24.   The project area covers the entire northern and eastern provinces of the country,
and neighboring conflict-affected villages of the three adjoining districts (North-Central,
Uva, and North-Western). According to GOSL statistics, Veddha community had been
traditionally living in Eastern and Uva provinces and there are no Vedhas in the Northern
province. But most of the traditional Veddha villages in Uva and Eastern Provinces have
been integrated with irrigation colonization and resettlement schemes implemented by the
Government from time to time since 1950s up to late 1980s. Therefore, it can be
conlcuded that Veddhas no longer continue to live as a group distinct and separate from
11



the comminity of Sri Lanka     Nevertheless, following Government of Sri Lanka's
regulations, the Vedhas are identified as Indigenous Peoples from the perspective of the
Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples
25.   IP Village. OD 4.20, unlike OP 4.12, does not apply to individuals, rather, it is
applicable to 'group'. However, in the country, in general, and the project areas, in
particular, there are hardly any villages comprising exclusively IPs. Hence, for operational
purposes, it is decided that all those villages with population of 50% or more IPs, will be
considered as IP Village4.
26.    Plan of Action. Towards addressing the issues related to IPs, the following plan of
action will be adhered to:
*  Towards completing an inventory of IP villages, the project will conduct a census
of villages in the project districts that have a majority IP population. This activity
can be conducted informally through interviews with administrative officials.
*  Irrespective of whether an IP village qualifies for a 'focal village' (even if the
village does not have a tank which is the initial selection criterion for NEIAP focal
villages) , include it under the project and extend, at least, the LSA program.
*  Review the existing village development plan format to ensure that the particular
IP concerns are taken fully into account and an Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan will be prepared by the Project Management Unit (PMU) and implemented
with the project assistance.
*  Where IP populations constitute a minority in the village, viz., less than 50%,
ensure their participation in the deliberations of the community through
representation in the village level institutions - Farmers Organization and Rural
Development Organizations. In this regard, it is important to mention that NEIAP
has already brought in changes in the by-laws of the farmers organizations (FOs)
(Attachment-5) that manage the command areas in order to permit membership of
landless and other people who are concerned by the rehabilitation of the tank.
*  In the minority villages, ensure that all the IP population receives particular
assistance in the LSA program, in accordance with their wishes and desires.
The World Bank Policy on Cultural Heritage -
Operational Manual Statement on Cultural Heritage
27.    The OMS on Cultural Heritage triggers when a development project disturbs the
built environment with historical interest. In as much as NEIAP engages exclusively in
the rehabilitation of village tanks and command areas and the reconstruction of existing
roads, it is very unlikely that project activities would disturb any area or site of historic or
archaeological interest.
4 Following this criteria, the initial inventorization has identified four villages in Batticaloa district
(Kaddumurivu, Akurana, Madurankumy, Muruthanai), two in Ampara district (Aligambai, Bintenna), and
two in Polonnaruwa district (Pahala Yakkure and Ihala Yakkure) as majority Indigenous Peoples villages.
As on date, only Muruthanai and Akurana are NEIAP IP focal villages.
12



28.    Given the very limited extent of the issue, NEIAP staff are appraised of the
possibility of such considerations (during the regional and national workshops) and
advised to seek specialized archaeological expertise in the instance that cultural remains
of historic significance should be uncovered during the course of the tank rehabilitation
and road reconstruction.
Chapter 4
Social Risks
29.    As peace sets in and situation changes from the 'conflict' to 'post conflict', one
expects displaced people to return to their original 'home'. Livelihood of the returnees
primarily depend upon: (i) extent of usage of their properties, particularly, lands could be
put in; and (ii) rights of access to their properties, particularly, lands. While the NEIAP is
specially designed to address the former (to enable the lands to be put into agricultural
usage), the latter is fundamental to establishing livelihoods and land encroachment5 poses
a serious social and reputational risk to the project, in particular, and the country, in
general. Hence, in a post-conflict situation, it is essential that institutional mechanisms for
addressing the encroachment resultant land disputes are detailed out. In other words,
detailed awareness is created among the general public about the safety measures outlined
in the state regulations to protect the properties of the returnees. This, however, demands,
as a prerequisite, an understanding of the land tenure arrangements and land use rights.
Once this is done, several scenarios or cases of encroachment could be visualized and
mitigatory measures detailed.
30.    Charts 1 and 2 below represents Land Ownership Classification and some salient
characteristics of Land Use Titles respectively. In Sri Lanka, based on land use rights,
four different property rights systems could be identified6 (i) private; (ii) state; (iii)
communal; and (iv) systems with open and unrestricted access to resources (elaborated in
Attachment - 6). The first two categories form the purview of current attention and three
types of land holdings could be distinguished7: (i) private lands; (ii) State land with Crown
Deed; and (iii) State land with a Permit8 issued by the government to occupy such lands,
called 'Permit Land'. (see Charts below). Given the project's objective of jump starting
agriculture, encroachment of private and permit lands, particularly, agriculture lands9 will
remain the focal issue.
5Encroachment is the unauthorized occupation and use of lands originally occupied and used by a person
who got displaced and left the original homes as a result of the ethnic conflict.
6 Conflict - Threat or Opportunity?: Land Use and Coping Strategies of War-affected Communities in
Trincomalee, Sri Lanka, SLE Centere for Advanced Training in Rural Development, Berlin/ Trincomalee,
December 200 1.
7 Ganesh, K., Govemment's Strategy for Mitigating Encroachment of Lands and Private Property of
Displaced People, Vayuvania, Sri Lanka, 2001.
8 Land Permits are titles which alienate state land temporarily for private utilization. The government
authorities can cancel a permit if the land is not cultivated as stated in the title documents.
9 Agriculture Land means land uses or capable of being used for agriculture within the meaning of the
Agrarian Development Act and includes private lands, lands alienated under the Land Development
Ordinance or the Crown Lands Ordinance or any other enactment.
13



Chart 1 - Sri Lanka - Land Ownership Categories in Sri Lank
State Land       l                              l      Private Land
I*Paddy Land          IHigh Land
Reference  Land         coming         forests       ns for       lands        lands       handed over    lands
to process  under       under                        roads                                 t
flow chart  Annual      forest                       railway 
given   -bpermnit,      department                   tracks!                               goeprnments
overleaf   LDO                                       tanks/lakesdeamnt
Referencermit Land   comingforess/ forests,
grants                                   etc
LRC    : Land Reform Commission Act (1 of 1972)
*Paddy Land           High land                  LDO    :Land Development Ordinance (19 of 1935 and subsequent Amendments
I             I               LGA    : Land Grant (Special Provision Act 43 of 1973)
* Social risks associated issues (encroachments) might be encountered during NEIAP intervention.
14



Chart 2-: Sri Lanka Land Use Titlesl1
State Land                      Private Land
Tenure         Annual        LDO Permit       LDO Grant            Deed
Permit
Description / Temporary       Can         be   Can transfer      Privately
Rights     &   transcription  mortgaged        Can Mortgage      owned     land
Obligations    of state land  Can   nominate   Can lease for a   with       full
to  a person   successors       period less than  ownership
with  limited  No        other  one year at a time  rights  to  the
rights     of persons      are  with approval     owner
usage          entitled     to  Can     nominate
ownership   on   successors to the
the ground of land
occupancy
Comments/      Issued during  Can    not  be   Can not be sold   Proof        of
Restrictions   1978-83, can   sold/ exchanged  Can  transfer to  ownership
be converted   Can    not  be   persons   within  through       a
into    LDO    leased or sub-   the  same   class  'chain  of title
Permit/ Grant  leased           which the allottee  records'
Permits   could  belongs       to.
be cancelled     Mortgage only to
Successors      the    institutions
should be from   mentioned in the
the     persons  Ordinance
mentioned   in   Can not lease or
the         3rd  sub-lease
Schedule of the  Successors
Ordinance        should be from
Land should be   the      persons
used for a given  mentioned in the
purpose          3rd Schedule of
the Ordinance
10 References: Conflict - Threat or Opportunity?: Land Use and Coping Strategies of War-affected
Communities in Trincomalee, Sri Lanka, SLE Center for Advanced Training in Rural Development, Berlin/
Trincomalee, December 2001; Sri Lanka: A Study of the Land Market, Part 11. Consulting Study by Abt
Associates Inc. USA for the World Bank, June 1998; Land Development Ordinance - No 19 of 1935 and
subsequent amendments; State Land Ordinance - No 8 of 1947 and subsequent amendments.
15



Legal Protection of Owners' Rights and Grievance Redressal
31.   The extent of land encroachment in the project districts is at present fairly limited with
most disputes being involuntary administrative reassignment or disenfranchisement have
been discovered so far in the project villages. Further, district land officials and others
throughout the current project districts as a whole, too, report that the incidence of such cases
or such instances is relatively small. In Batticaloa, there are some 10 cases of disputed land
rights and most of these disputes arise near the larger towns and cities, where people attempt
to cultivate vegetables for urban sale. In Trincomalee, 10 to 25 land disputes go to court in an
year. Officials in Vavuniya and Mannar Districts reported similarly low rates of formal
complaint being lodged in their areas. Further, the field level enquiries reveal that land
dispute cases currently in the courts involve owners who had been disenfranchised through
administrative procedures, although there are a vast majority of cases arising from other
sources.
32.   Government officials recognize that the issues of land encroachment and disputes
might arise more in the future, especially if distinct ethnic or religious groups return to areas
from which they had earlier been expelled. Such disputes could paralyze the villages
involved and delay project activities, as well as create grounds for formal complaint,
especially were government officials to use administrative regulations and laws to
disenfranchise the original owners.
33.   Sri Lanka has a strong set of land laws and has also implemented an extensive system
for local grievance redressal, administrative review and finally, legal recourse. Since the
1950s, Sri Lanka has enacted a number of land laws to protect the interests of private owners
and permit holders of Crown (or government) lands. Key laws are the Agrarian Development
Act No. 46 of 2000, and the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and Industries Authority
(REPPIA) established under the rehabilitation of persons, properties, and industries Act No
29 of 1987. The Agrarian Development Act, among others, provides for community
participation in key decision making, in particular, in resolving conflicts arising as a result of
encroachment of lands, thus as a powerful tool for addressing related social risk Issue (details
in Box-3).
16



Box-3
Agrarian Development Act
Agrarian Development Councils, comprising both government and farmer representatives
- providing for participation by the farming community in key decisions including land
usage
Agricultural Land Register for every irrigation scheme - enabling as a repository of
information on all the cultivators containing name and extent of each agriculture land, the
name of the landlord, the occupier, or owner cultivator, as the case may be, and
maintenance includes addition, deletion, and amendment of the register through the
Agrarian Development Council
Agricultural Land Register, resting with the Department of Agrarian Development, serves
as a benchmark document in the event of any disputes
Establishment of Farmers' Organizations (FOs) for each irrigated tank - The North East
Irrigated Agriculture Project has recognized it as critical to put in place a representative,
responsive and responsible community based organization at the village level to ensure
not only effective planning and implementation but also sustenance beyond the project
duration and for securing harmonious social reintegration.
Towards this, a draft by-law in respect of FOs (Attachment 5) has been prepared and it
enables re-defining their institutional structure. This essentially enables broadening of the
membership base; provides membership for both landed and landless laborers. This is
also chiefly aimed as a grass-root institutional mechanism to conflict management,
notably land encroachment. Broadening the membership base has also ensured higher
degree of 'transparency'. Acceptance and adoption of the by-laws is a prerequisite for
participation in the project.
Setting up of Agrarian Tribunal, to enquire into applications, appeals and complaints.
In brief outline, a person with a dispute over government land can, in the first instance,
submit his or her issue to the local Agrarian Development Council. If the dispute is not
resolved at the local level, the complainant may appeal to the district agrarian official for
redress.
34.   The District Land Office maintains a complete and up-to-date register of all Crown
lands, and is therefore usually able to resolve most disputes. Should that not be the case, the
complainant may take his or her case to the District Court, and, if the matter warrants take the
issue all the way up to the national Supreme Court. Private land owners, who are the
minority of cases, may appeal to the administrative officers for redress, but usually must
petition the courts directly. Several scenarios of agriculture lands encroachment in different
categories of land holdings and the resolving mechanisms are presented in the Charts 3 and
4 below.
17



Chart 3 - Sri Lanka - Process flow chart for claiming Ownership rights to encroached
lands belonged to Original settlers
|Land Ownership Categre 
|State Land                                                 r      t
Alienated lands                                  Paddy lands                High lands
under annual
permits (LDO
permits) and
Grants (LGA)                             Steps                          Steps
1. Inform concemed FO
FO informs ADC of the          Direct court action by land
area.                          owner
At the same time     and
Paddy lands     |       High lands     I               owner also informs ADC
of the area.
Option IJr                      ;                         ADC holds an enquiry and
Steps                      Steps                           takes  action  to   eject
1.     Permit holder       1. Same as paddy lands          encroacher.
informs GS/GN           under option 1
2.      GS reports to DS                                   Failing  which effort by
3.      DS issues a quit                                   ADC, the matter can be
notice to encroacher                                     forwarded to ACAD of the
4.      If not evacuated                                   district.
court action with
documentary evidence                                    ACAD    holds an enquiry
given by DS                                              and takes action to eject
encroacher.
If fails court action by land
owner
LDO      Land Development Ordinance (19 of 1935 and subsequent amendments
ADA      Agrarian Development Act (no. 46 of 2000)
ADC      Agriculture Development Council
ACAD     Assistance Commissioner, Agrarian Development
FO       Farmer Organization
DS       District Secretary
GS/GN: Grama Sevaka/ Grama Niladhari
LGA      Land Grant Act (Special Provision) Act 43 of 1973
18



Table 2 - Land Encroachment and Dispute Resolution
Scenario                      Resolution
Encroachment on
Private Land
*  Owner returns, recovers land  No issue
*  Owner returns, land occupied  Owner may either negotiate with occupier/user or
request Agrarian Council (which, strictly, does not
have jurisdiction over private land) to intervene, or
both; if unresolved, owner may bring case to District
Court.
*  Owner returns, land refused  Owner may bring suit in District Court
*  Owner relocated elsewhere  Owner retains rights to private land in original
village, despite relocation; if the owner wishes to
recover the land but cannot, he or she has the same
options of negotiation, appeal to the Agrarian
Council, or filing a land dispute case with the
District Court.
*  Owner displaced            Owner retains rights to private land in original
village, whether or not displaced; and may negotiate
with the user/occupier, appeal to the Agrarian
Council, or file a land dispute case with the District
Court.
*  Owner moved out-of-country  Owner retains rights to private land in original
village, regardless of residence, and therefore may
negotiate, petition the Agrarian Council, or file a
law suit to recover occupied land.
*  Owner deceased             In accord with inheritance laws, the widow receives
a one-half share of the property and the children
split the remaining half share. As owners, their
situation would be identified in one of the cases
given above.
*   Documents lost            Village council can verify claim; otherwise, must
seek out a private lawyer for assistance.
19



Encroachment on Government
Land
*  Tank bed cultivation       Cultivation of common property is not allowed in
law. Encroachers in tank bed areas can be granted
arable land outside the tank bed.
*  Owner returns, recovers land  No issue. (Note: land may be granted on one-year
permits or on longer term. Only longer term permits
[LDO] are considered here as creating a de facto
right to use a specific plot of land.)
*  Owner returns, land occupied  Permit holder petitions the Agrarian Development
Council for resolution; ADC estimates value of any
improvements on land; owner pays occupant / user
for improvements on land, who must then vacate.
Encroacher may be allocated other arable
government land for his or her livelihood.
*  Owner returns, land refused  If the Agrarian Council does not resolve the issue to
the satisfaction of the permit-holder, he or she
appeals to the Divisional Secretary for resolution. If
the case is still unresolved, the permit holder may
file a law suit in the District Court
*  Owner relocated elsewhere  Any permit holder who accepts voluntary relocation
under the government program automatically
forfeits any claim to government land in his or her
original village
*  Owner displaced            Any permit holder who for reasons of personal
insecurity has yet to return to his or her original
village retains the right to claim that land upon
return. In the interim, the village council can grant a
temporary use permit to another individual. If the
displaced owner returns, he or she would pay the
temporary occupier for any improvements on the
land (the value of these improvements is established
by the Agrarian Council), and the original permit
would be revalidated. The temporary permit holder
might be allocated other government land. (Note:
the law defines government land that is not farmed
for  three  consecutive  years  as  abandoned,
whereupon it can be reallocated; however, a clause
in the law exempts those years when cultivation was
impeded because of insecurity. There is a formal
notification process to be followed for the
declaration of abandonment to be valid.)
20



*  Owner moved out-of-country  Any permit holder of government land who
voluntarily moves elsewhere after displacement has
no permit right to government land in his or her
original village.
*  Owner deceased             In accord with inheritance laws, the widow receives
a one-half share in the property and the children
split the remaining half share. As legatees of a
registered permit holder, their situation would be
identified in one of the cases given above for
government land.
Encroachment on
Private Land
*  Owner    returns,  permit The government has issued a circular announcing
expired                   that permits of displaced people can not be
redistributed.
* Documentation   Gaps -   The office of the Divisional Secretary maintains a
inaccurate   or     no  complete land register, and can replace local land
documentation  of their records when necessary
rights
*  Transfer of land - loss of Permits can only be transferred within relatives.
birth certificates      Ownership and kinship can be proven by birth
certificates which may be lost. ADC can act upon
the advice of FOs & RDOs.
21



Chapter 5
Monitoring and Evaluation and Risk Mitigation Framework
35.   It is well recognized that the issue of land encroachment is a much larger and more
pertinent issue for NEIAP than the possibility of involuntary disenfranchisement of private
landowners through administrative procedures. Also, the judicial process is lengthy, costly and
time-consuming and hence, while NEIAP must remain vigilant about the possibility of
involuntary acquisition, the project needs to deal with the larger issue of land encroachment and
land dispute resolution in the command areas of the tanks that it rehabilitates. Hence, a need for
systematic and comprehensive project monitoring including social aspects is felt as critical
towards addressing social safeguards/ risks. Towards this, the following plan of action has been
drawn:
36.   A Framework of Implementation Monitoring. NEIAP has already developed a
framework for monitoring the inputs, outputs and outcomes as outlined in the PAD's Log
Framework. This framework is further strengthened incorporating social and institutional
aspects, in particular issues related to the reputational risks. Social and Institutional aspects of
the revised framework is presented in Attachment 7 to this document. Essentially, Social
Impact Indicators are now 4 (up by one) in number and they are:
* Human and Institutional Development-Representative, Responsible and Responsive
Community Based Organizations (CBOs) established;
* Favourable ethnic harmony among various groups;
*  Social Safeguards and Risks addressed - leading to land based livelihood security
ensured;
* Vulnerability of the households especially women reduced against natural and other
disturbances.
Overall FIM is provided in Attachment 8. The framework, however, requires a data base viz.,
data inputs to be fed into it at regular intervals. For this, below mentioned measures will be
followed.
37. A land register to form a part of Village Social Profile. The social mobilization officer
(SMO) in each focal village will maintain a land register for the command area that records the
plot number, area, and original owner in the pre-disturbance period and the current owner or
permit holder. Where the plot owner has changed, the mobilizer will record the reason for the
change in ownership (e.g., sale, inheritance, encroachment). If there are any instances of
encroachment, the mobilizer will keep a detailed account of the dispute resolution process. This
information will form a part of the comprehensive VSP. In this way, the project will have
documentary evidence of the incidence, if any, of involuntary land reassignment that might
trigger O.P. 4.12. Fortunately, this mandate is not onerous. The information is already available
in the district land records, and can be verified in village meetings. NEIAP had developed a
22



draft template form (Attachment 9), which has been firmed up after field testing jointly by
PMU and NGOs. PMU will arrange for collection and compilation of the land registry data for
all the project villages in the next 2-3 months.
38. Strengthen SMO dispute resolution skills. The incidence of land disputes (apart from
those that might trigger OP 4.12) is villages and exert their claims to agricultural plots in the
newly likely to increase in the near future, at least in some areas, as displaced persons return to
their original rehabilitated command area. NEIAP PMU should, in consequence, implement a
program for village social mobilizers to strengthen their skills in impartial resolution of disputes.
The program should cover negotiation between the parties concerned, as well as the various
forums for administrative redress (e.g., the Agrarian Development Council), where the SMO
could play a supportive and facilitative role.
39. Conduct sensitization workshops on land issues with government officers.
Administrative officers commonly have very clear notions about the application of government
directives and regulations. These interpretations may not be understood or shared by local
populations, who have their own concepts of land tenure and their own customary laws,
especially in the northeast of the country. NEIAP PMU should, in consequence, organize for
government officers sensitization workshops on land issues that arise in the focal villages in
order to reach a common understanding and approach to such matters.
23



Attachment 1
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
Summary of District Baseline Social Profiles
1.    Conflict related events and the consequences thereof are reflected clearly in demographic
changes, ethnic composition, number of female headed households, type of housing, and area
under paddy cultivation.
2.    Demographical changes. While the overall decadal population changes (base: 1990-93)
for the 12 project districts is rather marginal (4%) (Table- 1) intra and inter-district variations are
substantial.
Table-1: Demographic Changes in NEIAP Districts
District                          Population & Density
1981                 1990-1993             1999-2000
Population Density   Population Density    Population Density
Ampara       388786     97.73      575533     100.2     660878     149.14
Batticola    330889     135        430835    255        508731     186
Trincomalee  256790     97.6       315036     119.7     351220     133.9
Vavuniya     94468      60.5       11400      66.5      132918     72.2
Mannar        106234    58.2       126154     68.8      132918     72.2
Killinochchi  91631     74         185429     149.9     72774      39.8
Mulattivu     77512     62         46257     37         184655     73
Jaffna       830600     810.3      738700    720.6      491007     479
Anuradhapura 587900     81.9       718695     100.1     818652     114
Polonnaruwa   163700    81         330230     117       329830     116
Moneragala   273570     48         351000    62         364599     64.4
Puttalam     492533     165        583595    225.5      625612     241.8
Total        3694613               45154641             4697304
3.    Of the 12 districts under the NEIAP's purview, Killinochchi, Mannar, Jaffna and
Mulattivu  were affected the maximum;  Ampara, Batticola, Tincomalee and Vavuniya
moderately; and the least affected were the border districts of Anuradhapura, Pollanuruva,
Moneragala and Puttalam. Among the maximum affected districts, while the population has
declined substantially in Mannar, Jaffna and Killinochchi. The maximum decline is in Mannar
(43%) followed by Jaffna (34%) and Killinochchi (17%). While a good number of Mannar
people, given the proximity, have chosen to move to the nearby district (Mulattivu), some might
have migrated to the nearby country, India. In Jaffna, the Muslim population had to leave
overnight their homeyard and took refuge with their relatives in the districts of Ampara and
Batticola. As a consequence, population has risen in the other areas, notably, Mulattivu (up by
100%) and spread rather evenly across the districts of Ampara, Batticola, Trincomalee and
24



Vavuniya (up by 11 -17%). There are no appreciable changes in the border districts. This district-
wise migration scenario in real terms depict a totally different scenario (Table-2). In all, 600,000
persons were compelled to migrate with in-district-migration accounting for nearly 80%. As
many as 80,000 persons or about 15,000 families have moved out in Jaffna district. Some in-
migration in Jaffna indicate that displaced people have probably started returning.
Table 2: In and Out Net life Time Migration in Districts of the North East Province
S.No    District     Life Time In-     Life Time Out -     Net Life Time
migration         migration           migration
1       Apara
61,713            11,256              50,467
Batticaoa
17,456            19,083              -1,627
3       Trincomalee
55,908            12,120              43,788
4       Vavuniya
35,019            6,744               28,275
5       Mullaitivu
30,817            3,076               27,741
6       Mannar
22,327            5,053               17,274
7       Jaffna
27,820            80,168              -52,348
8       Moneragala
80,271            11,104              69,167
9       Puttalam
81,013            40,781              40,232
Total        412,344           189,385             222,969
Source: District Social Profiles PMU-NEIAP
The data given above as indicated in DSPs are related to 1981 census
25



4.     Rural -urban population composition too has changed leading to polarization. In general,
urban population has increased with the exception of Mulattivu and Trincomalee where urban
population has declined substantially (Table-3).
Rural and Urban population in Project Districts
Census 1971          Census                   Census 2001
1981
S.NO     District
Rural    Urban     Total    Rural    Urban    Total    Rural    Urban     Total
1    mpara       412057   31970 *   444027   474209    53276    527485   476922   112422   589344
2   Batticaloa    370416   69508    439924   446512    79415    525927   200859   113229   314088
3   Trincomalee   368242   72239    440481   444261    82739    527000   186396    6509    192905
4   Vavuniya      468550   20628    489178   510402    18512    528914    90703    53237   143940
5   Mannar        432705    11095   443800   502031    13931    515962    41724   110276   152000
6   Killinochchi*   *        *         *      76346    15285    91631    105791   21209    127000
7   Mullaitivu"*    *        *         *     506522    7192     513714   116230    1770    118000
8   Jaffna        196957   233892   430849   254811   270573    525384   238135   252865   491000
9   Anuradhapura  349956   38824    388780   546537    41392    587929   689834    56632   746466
10   ollannaruwa  147400    16300    163700   241100   20500    261600   359197      -    359197***
11  !oneragala   193000**            193000  273570**    -      273570  396173 **    -     396173
12   uttalam      326007    52423   378430    430805   61728    492533   638728    65072   703800
rotal        3265290   546879   3811169  4707106   664543  5371649   3181495  793221   4333913
* - Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu Disitricts were established only after 1979
** - Population of Moneragala are still considered as rural as it is a very remote district having no Urban Council
- According to present categorization of Rural & Urban, Polonnaruwa District is also considered as a rural district from
2001 Census onwards
26



4.     Ethnic Composition. The conflict resultant migration has affected severely the ethnic
composition. It could be seen from Table-3 that the Sinhala population has become almost zero
in the districts of Jaffna, Mulattivu, Killinochchi, and Mannar. Batticola and Monergala too have
evidenced substantial decline indicating absolute polarization. Consequently, Sinhala population
in Ampara, Anuradhapura and Trincomalee has risen up. It is maximum in Ampara (up by 79%)
followed by Anuradhapura (34%) and Trincomalee (17%). It is instructive to note that both
Sinhala and Tamil population have risen in Ampara and Trincomalee, indicating their wider
acceptance for habitation. Unfortunately, break-up in terms of intra-Tamils are not available.
But, it is widely reported that the Muslim population too has declined in the above districts (with
the exception of Batticola). Ampara and Batticola district profiles brought to the fore existence
of indigenous peoples
Table 4 :Po pulation and ethnic composition in project districts
District Population & Density                                      Ethnic Composition
1981             1990-1993           1999-2000          Sinhala        Tamil
Population  Density Population Density Population  Density   1981   1999   1981   1999
per sq Km          per sq Km          per sq Km
Ampara       388786     92.0    575533     136.2   660878     156.5    146371 261455 79725 121099
Batticaloa   330889     126.7   430835      165    508731     194.9    10649    978   238216 381898
Trincomalee  256790     101.5   315036     124.5   351220     138.8    86341   101926 93510 112359
Vavuniya     94468      50.7     114000    61.2    132918      71.4     1578   14581  72893  95149
Mannar       106234     56.5     126154    67.1     72774      38.7     8683    114   56707  96406
Kilinochchi  91631       76      185429    153.8   156428     129.8     741      -    89197 106166
Mullaitivu   77512       32      46257     19.1    184655      76.4     3948     12   69670  76650
Jaffna       830600     894     738700     795.1   491007     528.5     4615     22   872247 49062
Anuradhapur  587900    88.2     718695    107.8    818652     122.8   553484 739479   8745   5096
a
Polonnaruwa  163700     53.2    330230     107.2   329830     107.1    148967  148000  3372   3274
Moneragala   273570     49.6    351000     63.7    364599      66.1    235574  11205  18958 337983
27



Puttalam      492533     170.8    583595     202.4    626612     217.4    407218  520290 35003   50760
All Project  3694613     103.2   4515464     126.1   4698304     131.3    1608169 179806216382431435902
Districts
Source: District Social Profiles - PMU, NEIAP.
Statistical Pocket Book - Dept of Census and Statistics - 2001
5.      Welfare Centers and Female Headed Households: Though a large number of persons
were displaced, attendance in refugee camps were quite low. Majority of them found
resettlement measures on their own, some with their relatives and friends, both inside and outside
the country. It is normally believed that for every person seeking refuge in the camp, there were
two others seeking shelters outside. There were 629 welfare centers established across the
districts with an attendance of over 100,000 persons (Table- 5). Maximum number of welfare
centers and the persons thereof are reported in Ampara, Batticaloa, Vavuniya and Mulattivu
districts.
Welfare Centres       Outside WelfareToaDipce
No of                               Centres            Total Displaced
S.No     District   Welfare
Centres   No of      No of      No of      No of      No of        No of
Families   Persons    Families   Persons    Families    Persons
1   Ampara          150     30000*    150000      60000     300000      90000       450000
2   Batticaloa       59     29738      133847     17826      82809      37564       216656
3   Trincomalee      15      1282      5362        2576      15144       3858        20506
4   Vavuniya         14      10000     36513      17897      69400      27897       105913
5   Mannar           14      6627      25953      19882      77858      26509       103811
6   Kilinochchi      52      6867      28755      23342      91795      30209       120550
7   Mullaitivu       73      7020      28675      26644      107967     33664       136642
8    affna          156      4360      16767      13856      395426     118216      412193
9   Anuradhapura     34      1056      4561        1095       4530       2151        9091
10   Polonnaruwa     7        846      14109        108       490         954         99
11   Moneragala      2        156       780         78        440         234         1220
12   Puttalam
12 __Puttalam   53      4026      65489       2002       9009       16028       74498
Total
Total_ __________  629  101978    510811     185306     1154868    387284      1651179
28



The above figures show the situation between 1990 - 1995 instant and after which it has changed to a
considerable extent due to resettlement programmes undertaken by Government of Srilanka.
eg: * Ampara figures indicate the original situation in 1990. But after introducing resettlement programme during
the period from Sep 1990 to Feb 1992, some 20000 families were re-settled. Another 9482 families were
resettled thereafter. Now there are only 518 families (population 2059) in 7 Welfare Centres.
6.     Total number of female headed households across the districts stands at about 62,000,
with maximum in Jaffna (20,800) and Ampara (15,000) whereas minimum is in Mannar district
(Table-6). Proportion of female headed households, in the age group of less than 40 years, too is
very high across the districts. Higher proportion of females than males in all age groups are
noticed.
S.No           District           No of Female Headed
Households
1    Ampara                             15000
2     Batticaoa                          3189
3     Trincomalee                        6350
4     Vavuniya                           3300
5     Mannar                             1935
6     Kilinochchi                        3648
7     Mullaitivu                         7059
8     Jaffna                            20800
Total                              61281
Source     - Statiscal Information 2002 North East Province
- District Social Profiles - PMU, NEIAP.
- Data given above are mostly related to 1995 - 1999
period
7.     Housing Facilities: Housing, a proxy to infrastructure status, indicate the extent of the
severity of the conflicts a district has suffered. It could be seen from the Table-7 that only a little
over a third of the households have permanent houses with the maximum in Jaffna followed by
Ampara and Trincomalee. Jaffna topping the list, despite being affected severely, is more due to
the developments that had taken place earlier to the conflicts. Hundreds of buildings damaged
and bearing bullet marks is a common scene in Jaffna. Larger number of permanent houses in
Ampara and Trincomalee indicate that they are considered relatively 'safe' and accepted by both
Sinhala and Tamil population. As against this, the districts of Killinochchi, Vavuniya, Batticola
and Pollanurva have more number of temporary houses. In Killinochchi, temporary houses
account of 74% of the total indicating that the district is the worst affected by the conflicts.
29



Education too has suffered particularly in Killinochchi, in particular, and uncleared areas, in
general, for want of infrastructure and teachers.  Vavuniya (followed by Batticola) has a large
number of in-migrant persons who are struggling for shelter. It is instructive to note that, GOSL
has already established a number of relocation centers in Vavuniya as a good number of welfare
centers' in mates refused to move back to their original settlements. This is also probably the
reason for more number of semi permanent and temporary houses in that district. Relatively poor
housing in Polonuruva reflects a stagnating economy, a spill over effect of the conflicts.
Table 7: Housing Facility in the Project Districts11
District     Total     Permanent         Semi-Permanent    Temporary
No        No           %    No           %    No          %
Ampara       113313    38509        40.2 29207        25.8 45597       34
Batticaioa   47227     17677        25.3 27001        38.6 25249       36.1
Trincomalee  47827     15850        33.1 24705        51.6 7272        15.3
Vavuvniya    12449     2071         16.7 4006         32.2  6372       51.1
Mannar       18059     5623         31.2 7503         41.5 4933        27.3
Kilinochchi  38812     4010         10.3 6052         15.6 28750       74.1
Mullaitivu   13517     2620         19.3 7003         51.8 3894        28.9
Jaffna       15986     85957        53.7 50092        33.8  19937      12.5
Polonnaruwa  53680     17171        32   18000        33.3  18509      34.7
Puttalam     110260    31032        28.1 50496        45.8  28732      26.1
Total        471130    220520       34.7 224065       35.4  189245     29.9
8.     Area under Paddy Cultivation: Paddy cultivation, an icon of irrigated agriculture, is a
focal point of the agrarian economy. Besides agriculture, the irrigated tanks also support inland
fishing and livestock farming. These three are the traditional forms of economic activity for over
two-thirds of the population earlier to the conflict. Area under agriculture, notably, paddy has
decreased substantially in the districts of Vavuniya, Mannar, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, and Jaffna
(Table-8). Livestock population which forms an inseparable part of the agricultural economy is
reported to have steadily declined. So is the decline in the number of families dependent on
fishing for their livelihood. These have negatively impacted the livelihood of a large majority. It
is instructive to note that privately held lands form a small proportion of the total paddy land
holdings. For example, in Ampara, while privately held land amounted to 12%, remaining
belonged to the state and half of which were encroached12.    Absence of clear title in many
instances and the fear of lands and houses being encroached looms large on everyone's mind
" Data collected under verification for 2 other districts
12 refers to government/ Crown lands being encroached
30



Table-8: Area Under Paddy Cultivation
Year/         Area (ha)
Season        1981                      1990-1993         1999
Districts        Yala   Maha       Yala        Maha       Yala     Maha
Ampara           47750  53510      41300       50600      45000    58200
Batticaloa       11500   42500     11500       36000      7000     27815
Trincomalee   1500      32000      5500        18500      13000    18000
Vavuniya      358        13533     260.6       5833.1     1037     1050
Mannar        1000       15000     5800        16000      5800     12000
Kilinochchi   7758       18367     957         18074      3547.5   10899
Mullaitivu    949        14240     523         10658      2284     7945
Jaffna*       --        12292      --          692        --       8411
Anuradhapura  3359      39674      8451        31065      4244     58110
Polonnaruwa   23662     33743     42957        45772      11922    22333
Moneragala    10370      19219     10592       20340      10645    20114
Puttalam      15649     26093      16408       39988      NA       22112
Total         53130     152587     132748.6    257522.1   97479.5  266989
Source: District Social Profiles, PMU, NEIAP
* Paddy is nor normally grown during Yala season.
31



Attachment 2 (a)
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
List of Main Contributors to the Design and Preparation of
Social Safeguard Assessment and Management Framework
1.    Mr.G.Kirushnamurthy,
Chief Secretary,
North East Province,
Provinicial Secretariat,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee.
2.    Mr.P.Ramanathan,
Project Director,
NEIAP - Trincomalee.
3.    Mrs. Thanuga Munugashan,
Provincial Land Commissioner,
Land Commissioners Department,
North East Province,
Trincomalee.
4.    Mr.B.R.Senaratne,
Assistant Commissioner (Legal),
Land Commissioners Department,
Gregory Road - Colombo - 7
5.    Mr.B.M.Ariyaratna,
Assistant Commissioner Lands,
Kachcheri, Trincomalee.
6.    Mr.A.A.Bawa,
Deputy Project Director - NEIAP,
Kachcheri - Ampara.
7.    Mr.A.C.Vinotharajah,
Deputy Project Director - NEIAP,
Provincial DDI Office - Batticaloa.
8.    Mr.S.Samithambi,
Assistant Commissioner,
Agrarian Development,
Department of Agrarian Development,
Batticaloa.
32



9.    Mr.Elamaldeniya,
Agrarian Development Officer (Head Quarter)
Department of Agrarian Development,
Trincomalee.
10.   Mr.V.Velummylum,
Divisional Secretary,
Town & Gravets,
Trincomalee.
33



Attachment 2 (b)
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
List of participants of the World Bank Review Mission Workshop
on Social Safeguard Issues
held on June 21 - 22, 2002 at Anuradhapura
Address
Name               Designation
1. Mr.G. Kriushnamurthiy      Chief Secretary                   NEPC - Trincomalee
2. Eng. Nihal Fernando        Task Team Leader                  World Bank.
3. Mr. Appleby                Consultant                        World Bank
4. Mr.S.Satish                Community Development Specialist  World Bank
5. Mr.Malcom Janson           Enviromnental Specialist          World Bank
6. Mr.E.W.P.Illayaparachchi   Director of Planning              Ministry of HA, PC & LG
7. Eng.S.Selvarajah           Additional Secretary              Ministry of Irrigation
8. Eng.Mrs.J.A.Amarakoon      DDI                               Dept.   of  Irrigation  (Central),
Colombo
9. Mr.S.Amurthalingam         Secretary                         Ministry of RR&WA, NEP
10. Mr.R.Thiyagalingam        Secretary                         Ministry of Agri. Land & Irrigation-
NEP - Trincomalee.
11. Mr.T.K.Subramaniyam       Deputy Director                   Agriculture, NEP
12. Mr.A.G.Jeyasinghe         Deputy Director                   Planning - Polonnaruwa
13. Eng.A.E.S.Rajendra        Provincial Director               Road Development, NEP
14. Dr.K.Sivalingam           Provincial Director               Animal Production & Health, NEP
15. Lt.Col.M.D.W.Kithsiri     Srilanka Army                     CAO- 211 Brigade, Vavuniya
16. Major. J.R.N.Atapattu     Srilanka Army                     CAO- 22 Division, Trincomalee
17. Mr.S.Shanmugam            Government Agent                  Batticaloa
18. Mr.K.Ganesh               Government Agent                  Vavuniya
19. Mr.A.A.Bawa               Deputy Project Director           NELAP, Ampara
20. Eng.A.C.Vinotharajah      Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Batticaloa
21. Eng.S.Selvaratnam         Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Trincomalee
22. Eng.K.S.Sivapatham        Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Vavuniya
23. Eng.T.Navaratnasingam     Project Engineer                  NEIAP, Mannar
24. Eng.M.Y.Zeindudeen        Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Puttalam
25. Mrs.S.Anandarajah         Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Kilinochchi
26. Eng.K.Nithiyasundresparan  Deputy Project Director          NEIAP, Mullativu
27. Mr.K.Balakrishnan         Deputy Project Director           NEIAP, Jaffna
28. Mr.S.Samithamby           Asst. Commissioner                Agrarian Development, Batticaloa
29. Mr.S.L.Segu Ibrahim       Asst. Commissioner                Agrarian Development, Trincomalee
34



30. Mrs.A.Stanly De Mel       Asst. Commissioner                Agrarian Development, Mannar
31. Mr.M.Kathekeyan           Asst. Director                    Agriculture(Ext), Batticaloa
32. Mr.S. Sivakumar           Asst. Director                    Agriculture(Ext), Trincomalee
33. Mrs.J.Jehanathan          Asst. Director                    Agriculture(Ext), Vavuniya
34. Mr.S.Sinnathurai          Asst. Director                    Agriculture(Ext), Jaffna
35. Mr.Tapan Kumar Barman     Programme Manager                 Sewa       Lanka      Foundation,
Trincomalee
36. Mr.G.J.Anuraj             Programme Coordinator             World Vision Lanka, Thirukkovil
37. Mr.T.Thevathas            District Coordinator              FORUT, Vavuniya
38. Mr. A.Devananda           Kreston Auditors                  Colombo - 02
39. Mr.M.S.Ramanchandran      Provincial Director               Sareeram   -   Srilanka  National
Foundation - Batticaloa.
40. Mr.Thilan                 Co-ordinating Secretary            Sareeram  -   Srilanka  National
Foundation - Batticaloa.
41. Mr. P.Jeyasiri             SMC                              RDF - Vavuniya
42. Eng.P.Kandasamy           Team Leader                       Teams Consultants, Colombo - 05
43. Mr.P.Ramanathan           Project Director                  PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
44. Eng.S.Manoharan           Technical Director                PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
45. Mr.H.K.S.Hettiarachchi    PM&ES                             PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
46. Mr.M.Jehanathan           PMPDS                             PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
47. Mr.K.B. Bandara Basnayake  Senior Social Scientist          PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
48. Mr.P.Mariampillai         Project Accountant                PMU - NEIAP - Trincomalee
49. Prof.A.J.Weeramunda       Senior Social Scientist - Consultant  University of Colombo
NEIAP
50. Dr.S.Thiruchchelvam       Senior Lecturer                   University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya
51. Eng.A.Vimalachandran      Regional Director                 Irrigation, Vavuniya
52. Eng.S.Jegatheswaran       Regional Director                 Irrigation, Trincomalee
53. The General Manager       Design Consortium Ltd.            Colombo - 8
54. Mr.M.G.M.Razzak           Senior Social Scientist           University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya
55. Mr.R.Gnanachelvam         Project Asst.                     (Environment), PMU, NELAP
56. Mr.M.Poologarajah         Project Assistant,                PMU, NEIAP - Trincomalee
57. Mrs. Muthulatha Perera    Ministry of Policy Development    Colombo
Planning
58. K.V.Ganeshakumar          Resident Engineer                 DCL - Vavuniya
59. Mr.W.Paranagama           Project Assistant                 NEIAP - Anuradhapura
60. D.C.Vijayasinghe          Engineer                          DPD's Office - Anuradhapura
61. Mr.K.P.Pathmanathan       Asst. Director                    NEIAP - Trincomalee
62. Dr.Srilal Perera          Project Manager                   NEIAP - Vavuniya
35



Attachment 2 (c)
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
List of Participants of Project Stake holders Workshop - on Social Safeguard Issues
held on
June 10th - 2002 at Ampara
Address
Name                        Designation
1. A.A.Bawa                           DPD                   Ampara
2. Ms.S.Rajeswary.                    President             Farmers' Organization
3. Ms.S.Mary Juditha                  Secretary             Farmers' Organization
4. Ms.S.Rahini                        Treasurer             Farmers' Organization
5. Mr.U.K.Uthayakumar                 ADO/AI                Irrakamam
6. Mr.I.M.Haniffa                     DS                    Irakkamam
7. Mr.R.M.W.Ratnayake                 DDI/C                 Ampara
8. Mr.R.M.P.Karuanaratne              IE                    Ampara
9. Mr.N.A.Athuperera                  Co-ordinator          NGO - Ampara
10. Mr.A.A.Prasanna Deepal            Director              Sewalanka
11. A.K.Thavarajah                    DS                    Thirukkovil
12. Mr.A.L.Jaufar                     IE                    Thambiluvil
13. Ms.Manel Mangalika                SM                    Arepotha
14. Miss.Nilanthi                     SM                    Perawalthalwa
15. Ms.Kumarymala                     SM                    Backmitiyawa
16. A.Faleer                          Coordinator           NGO - Ampara
17. Ms.R.Thayanithidevi               Project Assistant     NEIAP
18. Mr.M.Vadivel                      IE                    Thambiluvil
19. Mr.R.M.S.K.Basnayake              SM                    Lathgala
20. Mr.M.A.C.Sridevi                  SM                    Sarvodayapuram
21. Mr.H.G.I.J.Harshana               SM                    Panama (SLF)
22. Mr.W.M.N.Priyadarshini            SM                    Unawathurububula
23. H.K.S.Hettiarachchi               PMES                  NEIAP
24. Mr.A.L.Ranjan                     DO                    DS Office, Pottuvil
25. Mr.R.Sirivardhana                 President             Farmers' Organization- Thevaliyagoda.
26. A.M.Jaufar                        DO. AS                Ampara
27. Mr.N.Lingaraja                    SM                    Navithanveli
28. M.Alexandar                       T.O RDD Kalmunai      Kalmunai
29. Mr.A.M.S.K.Athanayake             Clerk                 DS Office - Padiyathalawa
30. I.J.Pandigamage                   TO RDO                CE's Office - Ampara
31. Ms.T.B.Renuka Priyankanni         Arapoththa
36



32. Mr.I.B . Gunasinghe               Representative        Farmers' Organization, Damana
33. Mr.I.B.Karunaratne                President             Farmers' Organization, Damana
34. M.rY.K.A.Samantha                 SM                    Mithuriyaya
35. Mr.Gunapalasenachandra            SM                    Thalapitioya
36. Mr.V.Karunanathan                 CE                    RDD - Ampara
37. Mr.M.I.M.Saheem                   SM                    Pottuvil
38. Mr.H.S.Indrasena                  DLC Branch            Ampara
39. Mr.K.Maheswaran                   ADP                   Alaiyadivembu & Thirukkovil
40. Mr.E.Kulasegaran                  GN                    Aligambai
41. Mr.T.Karunanitha                  SM                    Kalliyanthivu
42. Mr.V.Nesarajah                    SM                    Kannakikiramam
43. Mr.S.Yogarajah                    SM                    Manalchchenai
44. Mr.K.Tharunarajah                 SM                    Ampara
45. Mr.S.Thilakarajah                 SM                    Aligambai
46. Mr.E.Rasathurai                   SM                    Kavadipitiya
47. Mr.T.Lavakumar                    SM                    Sagamam
48. Mr.V.Anthonymuththu               RDS                   Aligambai
49. Mr.V.Vellakoddy                   RDS                   Aligambai
50. Ms.L.Thaventhini                  SM                    Munaiyoor
51. Ms.K.Kanagasunthari               SM                    Komari
52. Mr.S.Shanmuganathan               Technical Officer     RDD - Kalmunai
53. Mr.P.S.K.R.Veerakoon              DS                    Mahaoya
54. Mrs.AR.U.Abdul Jaleel             ACAD                  Ampara
55. Ms.S.Sutharshani                  SM                    Valathapiti
56. Mr.K.Asnara                       SM                    Arapoththa
57. Mr.Sumanadasa                     DO                    DS Office - Damana
58. Mr.M.Kopalaratnam                 DS                    Navithanveli
59. Mr.C.B.M.Haniffa                  PA(P)                 Ampara
60. Mr.O.M.Thisanayake                DO                    Mahaoya
61. Mr.G.K.Kumaran                    PA                    Ampara
37



Attachment 2 (d)
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project
List of Participants of Project Stake holders' Workshop - on
Social Safeguard Issues
held on June 11th - 2002 at Batticaloa
Address
Name                          Designation
62. T.Kanagasabai              Project Assistant                 NEIAP - Batticaloa
63. R.Thayanithdevi            Project Assistant                 NEIAP - Batticaloa
64. K.Selvarajah               SM                                G.N 209 A, Murunthan
65. K.Rasaiyah                 Representative                    Kaddumurivu village
66. M.Ganapathi                Representative                    Mathurankermi kulam
67. S.Theivarasa               President                         Kaddumurivu village
68. M.S.Ramachandran           Prov. Director                    Sareeram Srilanka Foundation
69. S.Thilan                   Co-ordinating Secretary           Sareeram Srilanka Foundation
70. S.Nimalathas               Co-ordinating Officer             Sareeram Srilanka Foundation
71. M.Sellaiyah                Co                                Sareeram Srilanka Foundation
72. S.Arumainathan             D.O A.S                           Vaharai
73. R.Nagarasa                 GN                                Kaddumurivu
74. S.Felician                 FO - Treasurer
75. M.Muralitharan             SMO                               Sareeram Srilanka Foundation
76. J.Jeevaneswaran            SMO                               - do -
77. S.Sathiyanathan            SMO                               - do -
78. S.Sivalingam               ADP (P.P)                         Batticaloa
79. A.Karunagaran              ADP                               Vavunatheevu
80. K.Gunaratnam               ADP                               MS&EP, Kaaraikudy
81. S.Amalanathan              D.S.                              MSW Paddipalai
82. M.Uthayakumar              DS- KPN
83. K.Mahesan                  DS                                Eravurpattu
84. S.Muralitharan             DS                                Koralaipattu South
85. V.Thavarajah               DS                                Koralaipattu East
86. C.Punniyamoorthy           DS                                Valaichchenai
87. G.Selvarajah               AI (HQ)                           Dept. of Agriculture - Batticaloa
88. V.Karunakaran              Al                                Valaichchenai
89. S.Samiththamby             ACAD                              Batticaloa
90. Karan                      SMO                               Mathurankemi kulam
91. P.Ramachchandran           FO
92. V.Rajendram                FA                                NEIAP, Batticaloa
38



93. A.C.Vinotharaj            DPD,                              NEIAP, Batticaloa
94. H.K.S.Hettiarachchi       PMES,                             NEIAP, Trincomalee
95. M.Mohanpremkumar          Rural Development Officer         Batticaloa
96. P.Kumuthamalar            Project Assistant                 NEIAP, Batticaloa
97. S.Vijayakumar             F.A                               NEIAP, Batticaloa
98. S.Narmathan               Clerical Assistant                NEIAP, Batticaloa
39



Attachment 3
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
World Bank Operational Policies on
Involuntary Resettlement
Note: OP and BP 4.12 together replace OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement. This OP and BP
apply to all projects for which a Project Concept Review takes place on or after January 1,
2002. Questions may be addressed to the Director, Social Development Department (SDV)
1. Bank experience indicates that involuntary resettlement under development projects, if
unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, Social, and environmental risks:
production systems are dismantled; people face impoverishment when their productive
assets or in come sources are lost; people are relocated to environments where their
productive skills may be less applicable and the competition for resources greater;
community institutions and social networks are weakened; kin groups are dispersed; and
cultural identify, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished or
lost. This policy includes safeguards to address and mitigate these impoverishment risks.
Policy Objectives
2. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship, impoverishment, and
environmental damage unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and carried out.
For these reasons, the overall objectives of the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement
are the following.
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible, or minimized, exploring all
viable alternative project designs.i
(b) Where it is not feasible to avoid resettlement, resettlement activities should be
conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient
investment resources to enable the persons displaced by the project to share in project
benefits. Displaced personsii should be meaningfully consulted and should have
opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement programs.
(c) Displaced persons should be assisted in their to improve their livelihoods and
standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels
or to levels prevailing prior to the beginning of project implementation, whichever is
higher.ii
40



Impacts Covered
3. This policy covers direct economic and social impactsiv that both result from Bank -
assisted investment projects v, and are caused by
(a) the involuntaryvi taking of landsvii resulting in
(i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) Lost of assets or access to assets; or
(iii) Loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location; or
(b) The involuntary restriction of accessviii to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons.
4.  This policy applies to all components of the project that result in involuntary resettlement,
regardless of the sources of financial. It also applies to other activities resulting in
involuntary resettlement, that in the judgment of the Bank, are (a) directly and significantly
related to the Bank assisted projects, (b) necessary to achieve its objectives as set forth in
the project documents, and (c) carried out, or planned to be carried out, contemporaneously
with the project.
5.  Requests for guidance on the application and scope of this policy should be addressed to
the resettlement committee (see BP 4.12, para. 7).ix
Required Measures
6.  To address the impacts covered under para. 3 (a) of this policy, the borrower prepares a
resettlement plan or a resettlement policy framework (see paras. 25-30) that covers the
following:
(a) The resettlement plan or resettlement policy framework includes measures to ensure
that the displaced persons are
(i)   informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
(ii)  Consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives; and
(iii) Provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement costx for losses
of assetsxi attributes directly to the project.
(b) if the impacts include physical relocation, the resettlement plan or resettlement policy
framework includes measures to ensure that the displaced persons are
(i)   provided assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation, and
(ii)  Provided with residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural
sites for which a combination of productive potential, locational advantages,
and other factors are at least equivalent to the advantages of the old sitexii.
(c) Where necessary to achieve the objectives of the policy, the resettlement plan or
resettlement policy framework also included measures to ensure that displaced persons
are
41



(i)   offered support after displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable
estimate of the time likely to be needed to restore their livelihood and standards
of living;xiii and
(ii)  Provided with development assistance in addition to compensation measures
described in paragraph 6(a)
(iii) such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job opportunities.
7.  In projects involving involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas (see para. 3(b)), the nature of restrictions, as well as the type of measures
necessary to mitigate adverse impacts, is determined with the participation of the displaced
persons during the design and implementation of the project. In such cases, the borrower
prepares as process framework acceptable to the Bank, describing the participatory process
by which
(a) Specific components of the project will be prepared and implemented;
(b) The criteria for eligibility of displaced persons will be determined.
(c) Measures to assist the displaced persons in their efforts to improve their livelihoods, or
at least to restore them, in real terms, while maintaining the sustainability of the park
or protected area, will be identified; and
(d) Potential conflicts involving displaced persons will be resolved.
The process framework also includes a description of the arrangements for implementing and
monitoring the process.
8.  To achieve the objectives of this policy, particular attention is paid to the needs of
vulnerable groups among those displaced, especially those below the poverty line, the
landless, the elderly, women and children, indigenous people,xiv ethnic minorities, or other
displaced persons who may not be protected through national land compensation
legislation.
9. Bank experience has shown that resettlement of indigenous peoples with traditional land-
based modes of production is particularly complex and may have significant adverse
impacts on their identity and cultural survival. For this reason, the Bank satisfies itself that
the borrower has explored all viable alternative project designs to avoid physical
displacement of these groups (see para 11) that are compatible with their cultural
preferences and are prepared in consultation with them (see Annex A, para 11)
10. The implementation of resettlement activities is linked to the implementation of the
investment component of the project to ensure that displacement or restriction of access
does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement are in place. For impacts
covered in para 3(a) of this policy. These measures include provision of compensation and
of other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and
provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, taking
of land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid and, where
applicable, resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to the displaced
42



persons. For impacts covered in para. 3(b) of this policy, the measures to assist the
displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the plan of action as part of the
project (see para 30)
11. Preference should be given to land-based resettlement strategies for displaced persons
whose livelihoods are land-based. These strategies may include resettlement on public land
(see footnote 1 above), or on private land acquired or purchased for resettlement. Whenever
replacement land is offered, resettlers are provided with land for which a combination of
productive potential, locational advantages, and other factors is at least equivalent to the
advantages of the land taken. If land is not the preferred option of the displaced persons,
the provision of land would adversely affect the sustainability of a part or protected area,xv
or sufficient land is not available at a reasonable price, non-land-based options built around
opportunities for employment or self-employment should be provided in addition to cash
compensation for land and other assets lost. The lack of adequate land must be
demonstrated and documented to the satisfaction of the Bank.
12. Payment of cash compensation for lost assets may be appropriate where (a) livelihoods are
land based but the land taken for the project is a small fractionxvi of the affected asset and
the residual is economically viable; (b) active markets for land, housing, and labor exist,
displaced persons use such markets, and there is sufficient supply of land and housing; or
(c) livelihoods are not land based. Cash compensation levels should be sufficient to replace
the lost land and other assets at full replacement cost in local markets.
13. For impacts covered under para 3(a) of this policy, the Bank also requires the following.
(a) Displaced persons and their communities, and any host communities receiving them are
provided timely and relevant information, consulted on resettlement options, and offered
opportunities to participate in planning, implementing, and monitoring resettlement.
Appropriate and accessible grievance mechanisms are established for these groups.
(b) In new resettlement sites or host communities, infrastructure and public services are proved
as necessary to improve, restore, or maintain accessibility and levels of service for the
displaced persons and host communities. Alternative or similar resources are provided to
compensate for the loss of access to community resources (such as fishing areas, grazing
areas, fuel, or fodder)
(c) Patterns of community organization appropriate to the new circumstances are based on
choices made by the displaced persons. To the extent possible, the existing social and
cultural institutions of relocating in pre existing communities and groups are honored.
Eligibility for Benefits xvii
14. Upon identification of the need for involuntary resettlement in a project, the borrower
carries out a census to identify the persons who will be affected by the project (see the
Annex A, para. 6(a)), to determine who will be eligible for assistance, and to discourage
43



inflow of people ineligible for assistance. The borrower also develops a procedure,
satisfactory to the Bank, for establishing the criteria by which displaced persons will be
deemed eligible for compensation and other resettlement assistance. The procedure
includes provisions for meaningful consultations with affected persons and communities,
local authorities, and, as appropriate, non governmental organizations (NGOs), and it
specifies grievance mechanisms.
15. Criteria for eligibility. Displaced persons may be classified in one of the following three
groups:
(a)  those who have formal legal rights to land (including customary and traditional rights
recognized under the laws of the country);
(b)  Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census begins but
have a claim to such land or assets - provided that such claims are recognized under
the laws of the country or become recognized through a process identified in the
resettlement plan (see Annex A; para. 7(f)); andxviii
(c) Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying.
16. Persons covered under para. 15(a) and (b) are provided compensation for the land they
lose, and other assistance in accordance with para. 6. Persons covered under para. 15(c) are
provided resettlement assistancexix in lieu of compensation of the land they occupy, and
other assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy
the project area prior to a cut-off date established by the borrower and acceptable to the
Bankxx Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not entitled to
compensation or any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in para
15(a), (b), or (c) are provided compensation for loss of assets other than land;
Resettlement Planning, Implementation, and Monitoring
17. To achieve the objectives of this policy, different planning instruments are used, depending
on the type of project:
(a)  a resettlement plan or abbreviated resettlement plan is required for all operations that
entail involuntary resettlement unless otherwise specified (see para 25 and Annex A);
(b)  a resettlement policy framework is required for operations referred to in paras. 26-30
that may entail involuntary resettlement, unless otherwise specified (see Annex A);
and
(c)  A process framework is prepared for projects involving restriction of access in
accordance with para. 3(b) (see para 31)
18. The borrower is responsible for preparing, implementation, and monitoring a resettlement
plan, a resettlement policy framework, or a process framework (the "resettlement
instruments"), as appropriate, that confirm to this policy. The resettlement instrument
presents a strategy for achieving the objectives of the policy and covers all aspects of the
44



proposed resettlement. Borrower commitment to, and capacity for, undertaking successful
resettlement is a key determinant of Bank involvement in a project.
19. Resettlement planning includes early screening, scooping of key issues, the choice of
resettlement instrument, and the information required to prepare the resettlement
component or subcomponent. The scope and level of detail of the resettlement instruments
vary with the magnitude and complexity of resettlement. In preparing the resettlement
component, the borrower draws on appropriate social, technical, and legal expertise and on
relevant community-based organizations and NGOs.xxi The borrower informs potentially
displaced persons at an early stage about the resettlement aspects of the project and takes
their views into account in project design.
20. The full costs of resettlement activities necessary to achieve the objectives of the project
are included in the total costs of the project. The costs of resettlement, like the costs of
other project activities, are treated as a charges against the economic benefits of the project;
and any net benefits to resettlers (as compared to the "without-project" circumstances) are
added to the benefits stream of the project. Resettlement components or free-standing
resettlement projects need not be economically viable on their own, but should be cost-
effective.
21. The borrower ensures that the Project Implementation Plan is fully consistent with the
resettlement instrument.
22. As a condition of appraisal of projects involving resettlement, the borrower provides the
Bank with the relevant draft resettlement instrument which conforms to this policy, and
makes it available at a place accessible to displaced persons and local NGOs, in a firm,
manner and language that are understandable to them. Once the Bank accepts this
instrument as providing an adequate basis for project appraisal, the Bank makes it available
to the public through its InfoShop. After the Bank has approved the final resettlement
instrument, the Bank and the borrower disclose it again in the same manner.xxii
23. The borrower's obligations to carry out the resettlement instrument and to keep the Bank
informed of implementation progress are provided for in the legal agreements for the
project.
24. The borrower is responsible for adequate monitoring and evaluation of the activities set
forth in the resettlement instrument. The Bank regularly supervises resettlement
implementation to determine compliance with the resettlement instrument. Upon
completion of the project, the borrower undertakes an assessment takes into account the
baseline conditions and the results of resettlement monitoring. If the assessment reveals
that these objectives may not be realized, the borrower should propose follow-up measures
that may serve as the basis for continued Bank supervision, as the Bank deems appropriate
(see also BP 4.12, para 16)
45



Resettlement Instruments
Resettlement Plan
25. A draft resettlement plan that conforms to this policy is a condition of appraisal (see Annex
A, paras. 2-21) for projects referred to in para. 17(a) above.xxiii However, where impacts
on the entire displaced population are minor,xxiv or fewer than 200 people are displaced,
and abbreviated resettlement plan may be agreed with the borrower (see Annex A, para.
22). The information disclosure procedures set forth in para 22 apply.
Resettlement Policy Framework
26. For sector investment operations that may involve involuntary resettlement, the Bank
requires that the project implementing agency screen sub projects to be financed by the
Bank to ensure their consistency with this OP. For these operations, the borrower submits,
prior to appraisal, a resettlement policy framework that conforms to this policy (see Annex
A, paras 23-25). The framework also estimates, to the extent feasible, the total population
to be displaced and the overall resettlement costs.
27. For financial intermediary operations that may involve involuntary resettlement, the Bank
requires that the financial intermediary (FI) screen sub projects to be financed by the Bank
to ensure their consistency with this OP. for these operations, the Bank requires that before
appraisal the borrower or the Fl submit to the Bank a resettlement policy frame work
conforming to this policy (see Annex A, paras 23-25). In addition, the framework includes
an assessment of the institutional capacity and procedures of each of the FIs that will be
responsible for sub project financing. When, in the assessment of the Bank, no resettlement
is envisaged in the sub projects to be financed by the Fl, a resettlement policy framework is
not required. Instead, the legal agreements specify the obligation of the FIs to obtain from
the potential sub borrowers a resettlement plan consistent with this policy if a subproject
gives rise to resettlement. For all sub projects involving resettlement, the resettlement plan
is provided to the Bank for approval before the sub projects is accepted for Bank financing.
28. For other Bank-assisted projects with multiple sub projectsxxv that may involve
involuntary resettlement, the Bank requires that a draft resettlement plan conforming to this
policy be submitted to the Bank before appraisal of the project unless, because of the nature
and design of the project or of a specific subproject or sub projects (a) the zone of impact
of sub projects cannot be determined, or (b) the zone of impacts is known but precise
sitting alignments cannot be determined. In such cases, the borrower submits a resettlement
policy framework consistent with this policy prior to appraisal (See Annex A, paras 23-25).
For other sub projects that do not fall with in the above criteria, a resettlement plan
conforming to this policy is required prior to appraisal.
29. For each sub project included in a project described in para. 26,27, or 28 that may involve
resettlement, the Bank requires that a satisfactory resettlement plan or an abbreviated
resettlement plan that is consistent with the provisions of the policy framework be
submitted to the Bank for approval before the subproject is accepted for Bank financing.
46



30. For projects described in paras. 26-28 above, the Bank may agree, in writing, that sub
project resettlement plans may be approved by the project implementing agency or a
responsible government agency or financial intermediary without prior Bank review, if that
agency has demonstrated adequate institutional capacity to review resettlement plans and
ensure their consistency with this policy. Any such delegation, and appropriate remedies
for the entity's approval of resettlement plans found not to be in compliance with Bank
policy, are provided for in the legal agreements for the project. In all such cases,
implementation of the resettlement plans is subject to ex post review by the Bank.
Process Framework
31. For projects involving restriction of access in accordance with para. 3(b) above, the
borrower provides the Bank with a draft process framework that conforms to the relevant
provisions of this policy as a condition of appraisal. In addition, during project
implementation and before to enforcing of the restriction, the borrower prepares a plan of
action, acceptable to the Bank, describing the specific measures to be undertaken to assist
the displaced persons and the arrangements for their implementation. The plan of action
could take the form of a natural resources management plan prepared for the project.
Assistance to the Borrower
32. In furtherance to the objectives of this policy, the Bank may at a borrower's request support
the borrower and other concerned entities by providing
(a) assistance to assess and strengthen resettlement policies, strategies, legal frameworks,
and specific plans at a country, regional, or sectoral level;
(b) financing of technical assistance to strengthen the capacities of agencies responsible
for resettlement, or of affected people to participate more effectively in resettlement
operations;
(c) financing of technical assistance for developing resettlement policies, strategies, and
specific plans, and for implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of resettlement
activities; and
(d) financing of the investment costs of resettlement.
33. The Bank may finance either a component of the main investment causing displacement
and requiring resettlement, or a free-standing resettlement project with appropriate cross-
conditionalities, processed and implemented in parallel with the investment that causes the
displacement. The Bank may finance resettlement even though it is not financing the main
investment that makes resettlement necessary.
34. The Bank does not disburse against cash compensation and other resettlement assistance
paid in cash, or against the cost of land (including compensation for land acquisition).
47



However, it may finance the cost of land improvement associated with resettlement
activities.
Note: OP and BP 4.12 together replace OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement. This OP and BP
apply to all projects for which a Project Concept Review takes place on or after January 1,
2002. Questions may be addressed to the Director, Social Development Department (SD V)
35. Bankxxvi experience indicates that involuntary resettlement under development projects, if
unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, Social, and environmental risks:
production systems are dismantled; people face impoverishment when their productive
assets or in come sources are lost; people are relocated to environments where their
productive skills may be less applicable and the competition for resources greater;
community institutions and social networks are weakened; kin groups are dispersed; and
cultural identify, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished or
lost. This policy includes safeguards to address and mitigate these impoverishment risks.
Policy Objectives
36. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship, impoverishment, and
environmental damage unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and carried out.
For these reasons, the overall objectives of the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement
are the following.
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible, or minimized, exploring all
viable alternative project designs.xxvii
(b) Where it is not feasible to avoid resettlement, resettlement activities should be
conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient
investment resources to enable the persons displaced by the project to share in project
benefits. Displaced personsxxviii should be meaningfully consulted and should have
opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement programs.
(c) Displaced persons should be assisted in their to improve their livelihoods and
standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels
or to levels prevailing prior to the beginning of project implementation, whichever is
higher.xxix
Impacts Covered
37. This policy covers direct economic and social impactsxxx that both result from Bank -
assisted investment projects xxxi, and are caused by
(a) the involuntaryxxxii taking of landsxxxiii resulting in
48



(iv) relocation or loss of shelter;
(v) Lost of assets or access to assets; or
(vi) Loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location; or
(b) The involuntary restriction of accessxxxiv to legally designated parks and protected
areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons.
38. This policy applies to all components of the project that result in involuntary resettlement,
regardless of the sources of financial. It also applies to other activities resulting in
involuntary resettlement, that in the judgment of the Bank, are (a) directly and significantly
related to the Bank assisted projects, (b) necessary to achieve its objectives as set forth in
the project documents, and (c) carried out, or planned to be carried out, contemporaneously
with the project.
39. Requests for guidance on the application and scope of this policy should be addressed to
the resettlement committee (see BP 4.12, para. 7).xxxv
Required Measures
40. To address the impacts covered under para. 3 (a) of this policy, the borrower prepares a
resettlement plan or a resettlement policy framework (see paras. 25-30) that covers the
following:
(a) The resettlement plan or resettlement policy framework includes measures to ensure
that the displaced persons are
(iv)  informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
(v)   Consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives; and
(vi)  Provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement costxxxvi for
losses of assetsxxxvii attributes directly to the project.
(b) if the impacts include physical relocation, the resettlement plan or resettlement policy
framework includes measures to ensure that the displaced persons are
(iii) provided assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation, and
(iv)  Provided with residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural
sites for which a combination of productive potential, locational advantages,
and other factors are at least equivalent to the advantages of the old sitexxxviii.
(c) Where necessary to achieve the objectives of the policy, the resettlement plan or
resettlement policy framework also included measures to ensure that displaced persons
are
(iv)  offered support after displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable
estimate of the time likely to be needed to restore their livelihood and standards
of living;xxxix and
(v)   Provided with development assistance in addition to compensation measures
described in paragraph 6(a)
(vi)  such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job opportunities.
49



41. In projects involving involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas (see para. 3(b)), the nature of restrictions, as well as the type of measures
necessary to mitigate adverse impacts, is determined with the participation of the displaced
persons during the design and implementation of the project. In such cases, the borrower
prepares as process framework acceptable to the Bank, describing the participatory process
by which
(a) Specific components of the project will be prepared and implemented;
(b) The criteria for eligibility of displaced persons will be determined.
(c) Measures to assist the displaced persons in their efforts to improve their livelihoods, or
at least to restore them, in real terms, while maintaining the sustainability of the park
or protected area, will be identified; and
(d) Potential conflicts involving displaced persons will be resolved.
The process framework also includes a description of the arrangements for implementing and
monitoring the process.
42. To achieve the objectives of this policy, particular attention is paid to the needs of
vulnerable groups among those displaced, especially those below the poverty line, the
landless, the elderly, women and children, indigenous people,xI ethnic minorities, or other
displaced persons who may not be protected through national land compensation
legislation.
43. Bank experience has shown that resettlement of indigenous peoples with traditional land-
based modes of production is particularly complex and may have significant adverse
impacts on their identity and cultural survival. For this reason, the Bank satisfies itself that
the borrower has explored all viable alternative project designs to avoid physical
displacement of these groups (see para 11) that are compatible with their cultural
preferences and are prepared in consultation with them (see Annex A, para 11)
44. The implementation of resettlement activities is linked to the implementation of the
investment component of the project to ensure that displacement or restriction of access
does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement are in place. For impacts
covered in para 3(a) of this policy. These measures include provision of compensation and
of other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and
provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, taking
of land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid and, where
applicable, resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to the displaced
persons. For impacts covered in para. 3(b) of this policy, the measures to assist the
displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the plan of action as part of the
project (see para 30)
45. Preference should be given to land-based resettlement strategies for displaced persons
whose livelihoods are land-based. These strategies may include resettlement on public land
50



(see footnote 1 above), or on private land acquired or purchased for resettlement. Whenever
replacement land is offered, resettlers are provided with land for which a combination of
productive potential, locational advantages, and other factors is at least equivalent to the
advantages of the land taken. If land is not the preferred option of the displaced persons,
the provision of land would adversely affect the sustainability of a part or protected area,xli
or sufficient land is not available at a reasonable price, non-land-based options built around
opportunities for employment or self-employment should be provided in addition to cash
compensation for land and other assets lost. The lack of adequate land must be
demonstrated and documented to the satisfaction of the Bank.
46. Payment of cash compensation for lost assets may be appropriate where (a) livelihoods are
land based but the land taken for the project is a small fractionxlii of the affected asset and
the residual is economically viable; (b) active markets for land, housing, and labor exist,
displaced persons use such markets, and there is sufficient supply of land and housing; or
(c) livelihoods are not land based. Cash compensation levels should be sufficient to replace
the lost land and other assets at full replacement cost in local markets.
47. For impacts covered under para 3(a) of this policy, the Bank also requires the following.
(a) Displaced persons and their communities, and any host communities receiving them are
provided timely and relevant information, consulted on resettlement options, and offered
opportunities to participate in planning, implementing, and monitoring resettlement.
Appropriate and accessible grievance mechanisms are established for these groups.
(b) In new resettlement sites or host communities, infrastructure and public services are proved
as necessary to improve, restore, or maintain accessibility and levels of service for the
displaced persons and host communities. Alternative or similar resources are provided to
compensate for the loss of access to community resources (such as fishing areas, grazing
areas, fuel, or fodder)
(c) Patterns of community organization appropriate to the new circumstances are based on
choices made by the displaced persons. To the extent possible, the existing social and
cultural institutions of relocating in pre existing communities and groups are honored.
Eligibility for Benefits xliii
48. Upon identification of the need for involuntary resettlement in a project, the borrower
carries out a census to identify the persons who will be affected by the project (see the
Annex A, para. 6(a)), to determine who will be eligible for assistance, and to discourage
inflow of people ineligible for assistance. The borrower also develops a procedure,
satisfactory to the Bank, for establishing the criteria by which displaced persons will be
deemed eligible for compensation and other resettlement assistance. The procedure
includes provisions for meaningful consultations with affected persons and communities,
local authorities, and, as appropriate, non governmental organizations (NGOs), and it
specifies grievance mechanisms.
51



49. Criteria for eligibility. Displaced persons may be classified in one of the following three
groups:
(a)  those who have formal legal rights to land (including customary and traditional rights
recognized under the laws of the country);
(b)  Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census begins but
have a claim to such land or assets - provided that such claims are recognized under
the laws of the country or become recognized through a process identified in the
resettlement plan (see Annex A; para. 7(f)); andxliv
(c) Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying.
50. Persons covered under para. 15(a) and (b) are provided compensation for the land they
lose, and other assistance in accordance with para. 6. Persons covered under para. 15(c) are
provided resettlement assistancexlv in lieu of compensation of the land they occupy, and
other assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy
the project area prior to a cut-off date established by the borrower and acceptable to the
Bankxlvi Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not entitled to
compensation or any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in para
15(a), (b), or (c) are provided compensation for loss of assets other than land;
Resettlement Planning, Implementation, and Monitoring
51. To achieve the objectives of this policy, different planning instruments are used, depending
on the type of project:
(a)  a resettlement plan or abbreviated resettlement plan is required for all operations that
entail involuntary resettlement unless otherwise specified (see para 25 and Annex A);
(b)  a resettlement policy framework is required for operations referred to in paras. 26-30
that may entail involuntary resettlement, unless otherwise specified (see Annex A);
and
(c)  A process framework is prepared for projects involving restriction of access in
accordance with para. 3(b) (see para 31)
52. The borrower is responsible for preparing, implementation, and monitoring a resettlement
plan, a resettlement policy framework, or a process framework (the "resettlement
instruments"), as appropriate, that confirm to this policy. The resettlement instrument
presents a strategy for achieving the objectives of the policy and covers all aspects of the
proposed resettlement. Borrower commitment to, and capacity for, undertaking successful
resettlement is a key determinant of Bank involvement in a project.
53. Resettlement planning includes early screening, scooping of key issues, the choice of
resettlement instrument, and the information required to prepare the resettlement
component or subcomponent. The scope and level of detail of the resettlement instruments
52



vary with the magnitude and complexity of resettlement. In preparing the resettlement
component, the borrower draws on appropriate social, technical, and legal expertise and on
relevant community-based organizations and NGOs.xlvii The borrower informs potentially
displaced persons at an early stage about the resettlement aspects of the project and takes
their views into account in project design.
54. The full costs of resettlement activities necessary to achieve the objectives of the project
are included in the total costs of the project. The costs of resettlement, like the costs of
other project activities, are treated as a charges against the economic benefits of the project;
and any net benefits to resettlers (as compared to the "without-project" circumstances) are
added to the benefits stream of the project. Resettlement components or free-standing
resettlement projects need not be economically viable on their own, but should be cost-
effective.
55. The borrower ensures that the Project Implementation Plan is fully consistent with the
resettlement instrument.
56. As a condition of appraisal of projects involving resettlement, the borrower provides the
Bank with the relevant draft resettlement instrument which conforms to this policy, and
makes it available at a place accessible to displaced persons and local NGOs, in a firm,
manner and language that are understandable to them. Once the Bank accepts this
instrument as providing an adequate basis for project appraisal, the Bank makes it available
to the public through its InfoShop. After the Bank has approved the final resettlement
instrument, the Bank and the borrower disclose it again in the same manner.xlviii
57. The borrower's obligations to carry out the resettlement instrument and to keep the Bank
informed of implementation progress are provided for in the legal agreements for the
project.
58. The borrower is responsible for adequate monitoring and evaluation of the activities set
forth in the resettlement instrument. The Bank regularly supervises resettlement
implementation to determine compliance with the resettlement instrument. Upon
completion of the project, the borrower undertakes an assessment takes into account the
baseline conditions and the results of resettlement monitoring. If the assessment reveals
that these objectives may not be realized, the borrower should propose follow-up measures
that may serve as the basis for continued Bank supervision, as the Bank deems appropriate
(see also BP 4.12, para 16)
53



Resettlement Instruments
Resettlement Plan
59. A draft resettlement plan that conforms to this policy is a condition of appraisal (see Annex
A, paras. 2-21) for projects referred to in para. 17(a) above.xlix However, where impacts
on the entire displaced population are minor,I or fewer than 200 people are displaced, and
abbreviated resettlement plan may be agreed with the borrower (see Annex A, para. 22).
The information disclosure procedures set forth in para 22 apply.
Resettlement Policy Framework
60. For sector investment operations that may involve involuntary resettlement, the Bank
requires that the project implementing agency screen sub projects to be financed by the
Bank to ensure their consistency with this OP. For these operations, the borrower submits,
prior to appraisal, a resettlement policy framework that conforms to this policy (see Annex
A, paras 23-25). The framework also estimates, to the extent feasible, the total population
to be displaced and the overall resettlement costs.
61. For financial intermediary operations that may involve involuntary resettlement, the Bank
requires that the financial intermediary (FI) screen sub projects to be financed by the Bank
to ensure their consistency with this OP. for these operations, the Bank requires that before
appraisal the borrower or the Fl submit to the Bank a resettlement policy frame work
conforming to this policy (see Annex A, paras 23-25). In addition, the framework includes
an assessment of the institutional capacity and procedures of each of the FIs that will be
responsible for sub project financing. When, in the assessment of the Bank, no resettlement
is envisaged in the sub projects to be financed by the Fl, a resettlement policy framework is
not required. Instead, the legal agreements specify the obligation of the FIs to obtain from
the potential sub borrowers a resettlement plan consistent with this policy if a subproject
gives rise to resettlement. For all sub projects involving resettlement, the resettlement plan
is provided to the Bank for approval before the sub projects is accepted for Bank financing.
62. For other Bank-assisted projects with multiple sub projectsli that may involve involuntary
resettlement, the Bank requires that a draft resettlement plan conforming to this policy be
submitted to the Bank before appraisal of the project unless, because of the nature and
design of the project or of a specific subproject or sub projects (a) the zone of impact of sub
projects cannot be determined, or (b) the zone of impacts is known but precise sitting
alignments cannot be determined. In such cases, the borrower submits a resettlement policy
framework consistent with this policy prior to appraisal (See Annex A, paras 23-25). For
other sub projects that do not fall with in the above criteria, a resettlement plan conforming
to this policy is required prior to appraisal.
63. For each sub project included in a project described in para. 26,27, or 28 that may involve
resettlement, the Bank requires that a satisfactory resettlement plan or an abbreviated
resettlement plan that is consistent with the provisions of the policy framework be
submitted to the Bank for approval before the subproject is accepted for Bank financing.
54



64. For projects described in paras. 26-28 above, the Bank may agree, in writing, that sub
project resettlement plans may be approved by the project implementing agency or a
responsible government agency or financial intermediary without prior Bank review, if that
agency has demonstrated adequate institutional capacity to review resettlement plans and
ensure their consistency with this policy. Any such delegation, and appropriate remedies
for the entity's approval of resettlement plans found not to be in compliance with Bank
policy, are provided for in the legal agreements for the project. In all such cases,
implementation of the resettlement plans is subject to ex post review by the Bank.
Process Framework
65. For projects involving restriction of access in accordance with para. 3(b) above, the
borrower provides the Bank with a draft process framework that conforms to the relevant
provisions of this policy as a condition of appraisal. In addition, during project
implementation and before to enforcing of the restriction, the borrower prepares a plan of
action, acceptable to the Bank, describing the specific measures to be undertaken to assist
the displaced persons and the arrangements for their implementation. The plan of action
could take the form of a natural resources management plan prepared for the project.
Assistance to the Borrower
66. In furtherance to the objectives of this policy, the Bank may at a borrower's request support
the borrower and other concerned entities by providing
(a)  assistance to assess and strengthen resettlement policies, strategies, legal frameworks,
and specific plans at a country, regional, or sectoral level;
(b)  financing of technical assistance to strengthen the capacities of agencies responsible
for resettlement, or of affected people to participate more effectively in resettlement
operations;
(c)  financing of technical assistance for developing resettlement policies, strategies, and
specific plans, and for implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of resettlement
activities; and
(d)  financing of the investment costs of resettlement.
67. The Bank may finance either a component of the main investment causing displacement
and requiring resettlement, or a free-standing resettlement project with appropriate cross-
conditionalities, processed and implemented in parallel with the investment that causes the
displacement. The Bank may finance resettlement even though it is not financing the main
investment that makes resettlement necessary.
68. The Bank does not disburse against cash compensation and other resettlement assistance
paid in cash, or against the cost of land (including compensation for land acquisition).
However, it may finance the cost of land improvement associated with resettlement
activities.
55



Attachment 4
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
Operational Directive
This directive was prepared for the guidance of staff of the World Bank and is not
necessarily a complete treatment of the subjects covered.
Indigenous Peoples
Introduction
1.  This directive describes Bank' policies and processing procedures for projects that affect
indigenous peoples. It sets out basic definitions, policy objectives, guidelines for the design
and implementation of project provisions or components for indigenous peoples, and
processing and documentation requirements.
2.   The directive provides policy guidance to (a) ensure that indigenous people benefit from
development projects, and (b) avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous
people caused by Bank-assisted activities. Special action is required where Bank
investments affect indigenous peoples, tribes, ethnic minorities, or other groups whose
social and economic status restricts their capacity to assert their interests and rights in land
and other productive resources.
Definitions
3.   The terms "indigenous peoples," "indigenous ethnic minorities," "tribal groups", and
"scheduled tribes "describe social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct from
the dominant society that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the
development process. For the purposes of this directive, "indigenous peoples" is the term
that will be sued to refer to these groups.
4.   Within their national constitutions, statutes, and relevant legislation, many of the Bank's
borrower countries include specific definitional clauses and legal frameworks that provide
a preliminary basis for identifying indigenous peoples.
5.   Because of the varied and changing contexts in which indigenous peoples are found, no
single definition can capture their diversity. Indigenous people are commonly among the
poorest segments of a population. They engage in economic activities that range from
shifting agriculture in or near forests to wage labor or even small-scale market-oriented
activities. Indigenous peoples can be identified in particular geographical areas by the
presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics:
56



(a)     a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these
areas;
(b)     self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural
group;
(c)     an indigenous language, often different from the national language;
(d)     presence of customary social and political institutions; and
(e)     primarily subsistence-oriented production.
The managers (TMs) must exercise judgment in determining the populations to which this
directive applies and should make use of specialized anthropological and sociological experts
throughout the project cycle.
Objective and Policy
6.   The Bank's broad objective towards indigenous people, as for all the people in its member
countries, is to ensure that the development process fosters full expectations for their
dignity, human rights and cultural uniqueness. More specifically, the objective at the center
of this directive is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the
development process, particularly from Bank-financed projects, and that they receive
culturally compatible social and economic benefits.
7.   How to approach indigenous peoples affected by development projects is a controversial
issue. Debate is often phrased as a choice between two opposed positions. One pole is to
insulate indigenous populations whose cultural and economic practices make it difficult for
them to deal with powerful outside groups. The advantages of this approach are the special
protections that are provided and the preservation of cultural distinctiveness; the costs are
the benefits foregone from development programs. The other pole argues that indigenous
people must be acculturated to dominant society values and economic activities so that they
can participate in national development. Here the benefits can include improved social and
economic opportunities, but the cost is after the gradual loss of cultural differences.
8.   The Bank's policy is that the strategy for addressing the issues pertaining to indigenous
peoples must be based on the informed participation of the indigenous people themselves.
Thus, identifying local preferences through direct consultation, incorporation of indigenous
knowledge into project approaches, and appropriate early use of experienced specialists are
core activities for any project that affects indigenous peoples and their rights to natural and
economic resources.
9.   Cases will occur, especially when dealing with the most isolated groups, where adverse
impacts are unavoidable and adequate mitigation plans have not been developed. In such
situations, the Bank will not appraise projects until suitable plans are developed by the
borrower and reviewed by the Bank. In other cases, indigenous people may wish to be and
can be incorporated into the development process. In sum, a full range of positive actions
by the borrower must ensure that indigenous people benefit from development investments.
Bank Role
57



10. The Bank addresses issues on indigenous peoples through (a) country economic and sector
work, (b) technical assistance, and (c) investment project components or provisions. Issues
concerning indigenous peoples can arise in variety of sectors that concern the Bank; those
involving, for example, agriculture, road construction, forestry, hydropower, mining,
tourism, education, and the environment should be carefully screened' Issues related to
indigenous peoples are commonly identified through the environmental assessment or
social impact assessment processes, and appropriate measures should be taken under
environmental mitigation actions (see OD4.01, Environmental Assessment).
11. Country Economic and Sector Work. Country departments should maintain information on
trends in government policies and institutions that deal with indigenous peoples. Issues
concerning indigenous peoples should be addressed explicitly in sector and sub sector work
and brought into the Bank country dialogue. National Development policy frameworks and
institutions for indigenous peoples often need to be strengthened in order to create a
stronger basis for designing and processing projects with components dealing with
indigenous peoples.
12. Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance to develop the borrower's abilities to address
issues on indigenous peoples can be provided by the Bank. Technical Assistance is
normally given with in the context of project preparation, but technical assistance may also
be needed to strengthen the relevant government institutions or to support development
initiatives taken by indigenous people themselves.
13. Investment Projects. For an investment project that affects indigenous peoples, the
borrower should prepare a plan and is expected to include components or provision that
incorporate such a plan. When the bulk of the direct project beneficiaries are indigenous
people, the Bank's concerns would be addressed by the project itself and the provisions of
this ID would thus apply to the project in its entirety.
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan1
Prerequisites
14. Prerequisites of a successful development plan for indigenous peoples are as follows.
(a)  The key step in project design is the preparation of a culturally appropriate
development plan based on full consideration of the options preferred by the
indigenous people affected by the project.
(b)  Studies should make all efforts to anticipate adverse trends likely to be induced by
the project and develop the means to avoid or mitigate harm.'
(c) The institutions responsible for government interaction with indigenous peoples
should possess the social, technical, and legal skills needed for carrying out the
proposed development activities. Implementation arrangements should be kept
58



simple. They should normally involve appropriate existing institutions, local
organizations, and non governmental organizations (NGOs) with expertise in maters
relating to indigenous peoples.
(d) Local patterns of social organizations, religious beliefs, and resource use should be
taken into account in the plan's design.
(e) Development activities should support production system that are well adapted to the
needs and environment of indigenous peoples, and should help production systems
under stress to attain sustainable levels.
(f)     The plan should avoid creating or aggravating the dependency of indigenous
people on project entities. Planning should encourage early handover of project
management to local people. As needed, the plan should include general education
and training in management skills for indigenous people from the on set of the
project.
(g) Successful planning for indigenous peoples frequently requires long lead times, as
well as arrangements for extended follow-up. Remote or neglected areas where little
previous experience is available often require additional research and pilot programs
to fine-tune development proposals.
(h) Where effective programs are already functioning, Bank support can take the form of
incremental funding to strengthen them rather than the development of entirely new
programs.
15. The development plans should be prepared in tandem with the preparation of the main
investment. In any cases, proper protection of the rights of indigenous people will require
the implementation of special project components that may lie outside the primary project's
objectives. These components can include activities related to health and nutrition,
productive infrastructure, linguistic and cultural preservation, entitlement to natural
resources, and education. The project component for indigenous peoples development
should include the following elements, as needed:
(a) Legal framework: The plan should contain an assessment of (i) the legal status of the
groups covered by this OD, as reflected in the country's constitutions, legislations, and
subsidiary legislation (regulations, administrative orders, etc.); and(ii) the ability of
such groups to obtain access to and effectively use the legal system to defend their
rights. Particular attention should be given to the rights of indigenous peoples to use
and develop the lands that they occupy, to be protected against illegal intruders, and to
have access to natural resources (such as forests, wildlife, and water ) vital to their
subsistence and reproduction.
(b) Baseline Data: Baseline data should included (i) accurate, up-to-date maps and aerial
photographs of the area of project influence and the areas inhabited by indigenous
peoples; (ii) analysis of the social structure and income sources of the population; (ii)
59



inventories of the resources that indigenous people use and technical data on their
production systems; and (iv) the relationship of indigenous peoples to other local and
national groups. It is particularly important that baseline studies capture the full range
of production and marketing activities in which indigenous people are engaged. Site
visits by qualified social and technical experts should verify and update secondary
sources.
(c) Land Tenure: When local legislation needs strengthening, the Bank should offer
advise and assist the borrower in establishing legal recognition of the customary or
traditional land tenure systems of indigenous peoples. Where the tradition lands of
indigenous peoples have been brought by law into the domain of the state and where it
is inappropriate to convert traditional rights into those of legal ownership, alternative
arrangements should be implemented to grant long-term, renewable nights of
custodianship and sue to indigenous peoples. These steps should be taken before the
initiation of other planning steps that may be contingent on recognized land titles.
(d) Strategy for local participation: Mechanisms should be devised and maintained for
participation by indigenous people in decision making throughout project planning,
implementation, and evaluation. Many of the larger groups of indigenous people have
their own representative organizations that provide effective channels for
communicating local preferences. Traditional leaders occupy pivotal positions for
mobilization of people and should be brought into the planning process, with due
concern for ensuring genuine representation of the indigenous population' No
foolproof methods exist, however, to guarantee full local-level participation.
Sociological and technical advice provided through the Regional Environment
Divisions (REDs) is often ended to develop mechanisms appropriate for the project
area.
(e) Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities: Technical proposal
should proceed from on-site research by qualified professionals acceptable to the
Bank. Detailed descriptions should be prepared and appraised for such proposed
services as education, training. Health, credit, and legal assistance. Technical
descriptions should be included for the planned investments in productive
infrastructure. Plans that draw upon indigenous knowledge are often more successful
that those introducing entirely new principles and institutions. For example, the
potential contribution of traditional health providers should be considered in planning
delivery systems for health care.
(f) Institutional Capacity: The government institutions assigned responsibility for
indigenous peoples are often weak. Assessing the track record, capabilities, and needs
of those institutions is a fundamental requirement. Organizational issues that need to
be addressed through Bank assistance are the (i) availability of funds for investments
and field operations; (ii) adequacy of experienced professional staff; (iii) ability of
indigenous peoples' own organizations, local administration authorities, and local
NGOs interact with specialized government institutions; (v) ability of the executing
agency to mobilize other agencies involved in the plan's implementation; and (v)
adequacy of field presence.
60



(g) Implementation Schedule: Components should include an implementation schedules
with benchmarks by which progress can be measured at appropriate intervals. Pilot
programs are often needed to provide planning information for phasing the project
component for indigenous peoples with the main investment. The plan should pursue
the long-term sustainability of project activities subsequent to completion of
disbursement.
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation-: Independent monitoring capacities are usually needed
when the institutions responsible for indigenous populations have weak management
histories. Monitoring by representatives of indigenous peoples' own organizations can
be an efficient way for the project management to absorb the perspectives of
indigenous beneficiaries and is encouraged by the Bank. Monitoring units should be
staffed by experienced social science professionals, and reporting formats and
schedules appropriate to the project's needs should be established. Monitoring and
evaluation reports should be reviewed jointly by the senior management of the
implementing agency and by the Bank. The evaluation reports should be made
available to the public.
(i) Cost Estimates and Financing Plan: The plan should include detailed cost estimates for
planned activities and investments. The estimates should be broken down into unit
costs by projects year and linked to a financing plan. Such programs as revolving
credit funds that provide indigenous people with investment pools should indicate their
accounting procedures and mechanisms for financial transfer and replenishment. It is
usually helpful to have as high a share as possible of direct financial participation by
the Bank in project components dealing with indigenous peoples.
Project Processing and Documentation
Identification
16. During project identification, the borrower should be informed of the Bank's policy for
indigenous peoples. The approximate number of potentially affected people and their
location should be determined and shown on maps of the project area. The legal status of
any affected groups should also be discussed. TMs should ascertain the relevant
government agencies, and their policies, procedures, programs, and plans for indigenous
peoples affected by the proposed project (see paras. 11 and 15(a)). TMs, in consultation
with the REDs, should signal indigenous peoples issues and the overall project strategy in
the Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS).
Preparation
17. If it is agreed in the IEPS meeting that special action is needed, the indigenous peoples
development plan or project component should be developed during project preparation. As
61



necessary, the Bank should assist the borrower in preparing terms of reference and should
provide specialized technical assistance (see para. 12) Early involvement of anthropologist
and local NGOs with expertise in matters related to indigenous peoples is a useful way to
identify mechanisms for effective participation and local development opportunities. In a
project that involves the land rights of indigenous peoples, the Bank should work with the
borrower to clarify the steps needed for putting land tenure on a regular footing as early as
possible, since land disputes frequently lead to delays in executing measures that are
contingent on proper land titles (see para 15 (c)).
Appraisal
18. The plan for the development component for indigenous peoples should be submitted to the
Bank along with the project's overall feasibility report, prior to project apprsisal. Appraisal
should assess the adequacy of the plan, the suitability of policies and legal frameworks, the
capabilities of the agencies charged with implementing the plan, and the adequacy of the
allocated technical, financial, and social resources. Appraisal tems shold be satisfied that
indigenous people have participated meaningfully in the development of the plan as
described in para. 14(a) (also see para.15(d). It is particularly important to appraise
proposals for regularizing land access and use.
Implementation and Supervision
19. Supervision planning should make provision for including the appropriate anthropological,
legal, and technical skills in Bank supervision missions during project implementation (see
paras. 15(g) and (h), and OD 13.05, Project Supervision). Site visits by TMs and specialists
are essential. Midterm and final evaluations should assess progress and recommend
corrective actions when necessary.
Documentation
20. The borrower's commitments for implementing the indigenous peoples development plan
should be reflected in the loan documents; legal provisions should provide Bank staff with
clear benchmarks that can be monitored during supervision. The Staff Appraisal Report and
the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President should summarize the plan or
project provisions.
Attachment 5
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
DRAFT BY-LAWS OF THE FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS of NEIAP PROJECT
AREA.
62



In exercise of powers vested in it as per provisions of the Agrarian Development Act No 46 of
2000, the .... Commissioner - General hereby constitutes the Farmers Organization, namely
............ Village Farmers' Organization . ..................... Division and .
District. The Farmers' Organization is constituted for the purpose and with power and functions
as given in the By-laws below, adopted by the ..................... village community, vide this
resolution.
1. Jurisdiction:
The jurisdiction of this Farmers' Organization (hereafter, "the Organization") encompasses the
geographical area constituting .......... village and habitations covered for, and as recognized by
the office of the .     developmental activities to be implemented under the Provincial /
Central Government's investments as well as the externally aided projects.
2. Objectives of the Organization:
(a) The Organization shall seek the well- being of the entire membership and shall be
empowered to undertake such lawful activities as they think fit for the achievement of
that objective.
(b) The Organization shall plan and implement activities that will bring about the economic
and social development of the community of its members in a total and comprehensive
manner.
(c) The Organization shall strive towards ensuring harmonious and cooperative relations
among several sub-groups within the village as well as between the village and other
external communities.
3. Composition
3.1 General Body will comprise three categories of members - Regular, Associated and
Observers.
3.1.1 Regular Membership
Every person who derives his/her livelihood directly and/or indirectly from agriculture shall
be eligible for membership in the General Body provided.
(a) S/he is a citizen of Srilanka
(b) S/he is not less than sixteen years of age; and
(c) S/he is a resident of the village as well as engaged in agriculture (includes field crops,
fruits, vegetables, flower, pasture, livestock, dairy, inland fisheries, apiary etc as
defined under the Act) for a period exceeding one year, as on the date of seeking
membership.
63



3.1.2 Associate Members
A person is eligible to become an associate member provided:
(a) S/he is a citizen of Srilanka
(b) S/he is not less than sixteen years of age; and
(c) S/he is a resident of the village for a period exceeding one year, as on the date of seeking
membership.
(d) S/he is not engaged directly in agriculture production for livelihood but engaged in
agricultural input supplies and / or output marketing.
3.1.3 Observers
All other persons who meet the criteria (a), (b) and (c) laid out in 3.1.2 but not engaged in
agriculture directly and / or indirectly will be eligible to become observers.
3.1.4 The Organization shall, if necessary, conduct a membership drive and an awareness
campaign in order to achieve the above objective thereby ensuring that all adult individuals
seek membership.
3.1.5 The Organization shall ensure that persons from all the different sub-groups including
women, agricultural laborers, and other marginalized social and cultural groups obtain
membership in the Organization.
3.2 Executive Committee
The General Body will elect members of the Executive Committee
(a) The Executive Committee will comprise of 11 members
(b) Seven members will be from Regular Members; three from Associate Members; and one
from Observers.
(c) Overall, not less than one-third of the total members will be land less agriculture laborers;
(d) Overall, not less than one-fifth of the total members will be women.
(e) The Executive Committee shall, in turn, choose among them: a President, Secretary, and
Treasurer and one of whom will be an women.
(f) Key office bearers shall be elected at a meeting of the general membership one week
after applications for the said offices have been received by the Commissioner or an
64



officer authorized to represent the Commissioner and published by printed notices
which should be publicly displayed within the jurisdiction of the Organization.
(g) The duration of office of all Executive Committee members shall be for a period of three
years with a maximum of 2 consecutive terms for a given office bearer.
(h) The method of electing Executive Committee members shall be decided upon by the
Commissioner or an officer authorized to represent the Commissioner.
(i) The election shall be presided over by the Commissioner or an officer authorized to
represent the Commissioner.
3.3 Other Sub-Committees
(j) The Executive Committee shall constitute 4 sub committees, choosing members from the
General Body, each for technical, finance, procurement, and monitoring of the
organization's activities.
(k) Membership in all sub committees shall be mutually exclusive and at least one member in
each subcommittee shall be a female.
(1) The Organization shall ensure that all office bearers and members of executive and sub
committees undergo appropriate training and awareness prior to or at the assumption of
their respective posts.
(m)The membership of any member shall not be terminated or suspended without a motion
to that effect having been forwarded to and approved by the general body of members
and subject to approval by the Commissioner.
4. Functions:
4.1  The Organization shall be responsible for the preparation, implementation, monitoring,
and evaluation of a comprehensive and integrated development plan for the well being of
its members.
4.2 The Organization shall initiate and develop linkages with external agencies (governmental
or non-governmental) with the objective of channeling required human and other
resources for the above purpose.
4.3  The Organizations shall undertake contracts for implementing construction and other civil
works with in its area ofjurisdiction.
4.4 The Organization shall be responsible for operation and maintenance of all the assets /
facility created under different development projects / intervention. This will include
fixing and collecting user charges as deemed fit by its members.
65



4.5 The Organization shall be responsible for preventing and / or resolving land disputes,
specially in the case of encroachment of lands belonging to internally displaced persons.
4.6  Apart from the above, all other functions, as detailed in the Act and as deemed fit by the
Commissioner - General shall be performed.
5. Powers:
5.1  Of the General Body:
The General Body of Members shall have the power to:
5.1.1  Decide on the functions of, and authorize to perform on its behalf, the Executive
Committee.
5.1.2  Approve, or otherwise, of activities and programs developed by the Executive
Committee and rules governing any credit scheme for members by a two third
majority once the scheme has obtained the sanction of the Commissioner.
5.1.3  Approve the annual income-expenditure balance sheet
5.1.4  Fix the financial powers of the executive committee
5.1.5  Decide on granting new membership
5.1.6  Terminate or suspend the membership of any given member once an enquiry has
been made of the cause of causes for termination or suspension.
5.1.7  Review the status of funds of the Organization from time to time.
5.1.8  Appoint delegates to represent the Organization at forums established by the
Commissioner at district, regional or national level.
5.2 Of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee of the Organization shall have the power to:
5.2.1  Choose and decide on the functions of the sub-committees
5.2.2  Obtain the services of any individual or an organization subject to the general
administrative and financial regulations as approved by the General Body.
5.2.3  Enter into contracts with governmental or other agencies
5.2.4  Open and operate an account of the Organization in a bank.
66



5.2.5  Decide on the signatories for operating the bank account.
5.2.6  Prescribe membership and other dues
5.2.7  Solicit funds from government or other sources.
5.3 Of the Subcommittees:
(a) The Technical Sub-committee will be responsible for the technical aspects of
planning, implementing operating and maintaining.
(b) The finance Sub-committee shall have the power to supervise, arrange, and control
the finances of the Organization, fixing user charges in conformity with the
operation and maintenance plan, the collection and disbursement of funds and dues
of the Organization, and shall be directly responsible for the submission of the
annual statement of income and expenditure and balance sheet of the Organization
to be presented to the general membership.
(c) The procurement Subcommittee shall have the power to supervise, manage, and
control all procurements of the Organization including those relating to
construction of civil works undertaken by or on behalf of the Organization.
(d) The Monitoring Subcommittee shall have the power to maintain regular supervision
of all activities of the Organization and shall be responsible for regular reporting
on all activities of the Organization including those relating to construction of civil
works, disbursement of loans, and progress achieved in all development sectors
pertaining to the well being of the community of members.
6. Accounts of the Organization:
(a)   The accounts of the Organization shall be audited annually by the Commissioner
or by an officer authorized to act on behalf of the Commissioner.
(b)   The Executive Committee shall be responsible for the proper maintenance of the
accounts of the Organization.
(c)   The accounts should be maintained following accepted accounting procedures.
(d)   The financial year of every Organization shall commence on the 15 of January
and end on the 3 lIs of December of each year.
(e)   The statement of the income and expenditure and the balance sheet of the
Organization shall be approved by the Executive Committee and, after having
67



being signed by the President and Treasurer, should be submitted to the
Commissioner or to an officer authorized to act on behalf of the Commissioner.
(f)   The audited accounts of the Organization shall be included in the statement of
income and expenditure of the Organization shall be presented to the general body
of members.
(g)   The accounts and assets of the Organization shall be available for scrutiny at any
time by the Commissioner or by an officer authorized to act on behalf of the
Commissioner.
(h)   The Commissioner or the officer authorize to act on behalf of the Commissioner
has the power to point out any limitations in the audited accounts and to give
advice on how such limitations could be corrected.
(i)   In addition to annual audit, the Commissioner shall have the power to ask for the
preparation of accounts in respect of any period or hold an audit inspection.
7. Meetings
(a)   The Executive Committee shall hold at least one meeting a month.
(b)   The General Body Meetings will be held at least twice a year.
(c)   The Committee Secretary shall maintain the proceedings of the Committee.
(d)   Failure to seek meetings and regular maintenance of the minutes of the meetings
the Committee Secretary or by 1/3 o the members of the committee by giving a
notice of 3 clear days will call for termination and re-election of the Executive
Committee.
8. Others
Any and all other conduct of business of the Organization, not specified in the by law, will be
done as per the Act and as per guidance and / or instructions from the Commissioner - General
issued from time to time.
68



Attachment 6
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
M&E Framework for Monitoring of Social and Institutional Aspects
Development    Impact / Outcome   Output Indicators             Input    Project
Objective or   Indicators                                       indicato  Compone
Goal                                                             rs      nt
4.Social Impact
69



4.Social Impact
To help conflict  2. IJFum=lcbthnic   4oldgdgab djfprisxatiuiilages
affected         hztittiuiyxdong     gebrFitcdiinai2    IlQc 4yople
communities in  IDaieh3lxbtGups in   vitisted in the general body of
the north east   Rro=Aatiity,        the villaTiklahistitution
and adjoining    Responsible and         -  Sinahalese
areas to re-     Responsive CBOs in      -  Muslims      FO      RDO
establish at least  place            Ownerlpreoples
a subsistent level                   Non Owner Cultivators
of production                        Landless laborers
and community                        Wo7Wn
services through                     New Settlers
assistance for                       Indigenous People



3. Social Safeguards  Tank Bed Cultivation:
and Risks          -No. villages
Addressed-         -No. cultivators
Ensuring Land based  -Area cultivated
Livelihood Security  -No. alternate lands provided
Encroachment:
- No. villages
- No. cultivators
-  Area cultivated
- No. disputes solved
Indigenous Peoples Villages:
-Number
-No IPDPs prepared
-No IPDPs implemented
4. Vulnerability of  No of microenterprises grounded:
the household      -Total
especially women   -Landless laborers
reduced against    -Women
natural and other  -FHH
disturbances       -Indigenous People
71



Attachment 7
Sri Lanka North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP)
Land Use and Tenure Monitoring Record - Land Register
Official    Original Situation     Current Situation           Notes*
Plot          (c. 1985)               (2002)
Number
Plot      Owner        Plot      Owner/
Size                   Size   Effective User
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7 ._                          _ _ __                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
8.       =_=
9 ._                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
10.     =_=
* This column is to record any change in registered owner or effective user. Property may have
changed owner because of sale, inheritance, displacement, encroachment or other reason. The
recorder notes in this column the reason for any property transfer, with particular attention to
cases of encroachment and their resolution.
72



i In devising approaches to resettlement in Bank - assisted projects, other Bank policies should be taken
into account, as relevant. These policies include OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.04 Natural
Habitats, OP 4.11 Safeguarding Cultural Property in Bank-Assisted Projects, and OD 4.20 Indigenous
Peoples.
ii The term "displaced persons" refers to persons who are affected in any of the ways described in para. 3
of this OP.
iii Displaced persons under para. 3(b) should be assisted in their efforts to improve or restore their
livelihoods in a manner that maintains the sustainability of the parks and protected areas.
iv Where there are adverse indirect social or economic impacts, it is good practice for the borrower to
undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize and mitigate adverse economic
and social impacts, particularly upon poor and vulnerable groups. Other environmental, social, and
economic impacts that do not result from land taking may be identified and addressed through
environmental assessments and other project reports and instruments.
v This policy does not apply to restrictions of access to natural resources under community-based
projects, i.e where the community using the resources decides to restrict access to these resources,
provided that an assessment satisfactory to the Bank establishes that the community decision-making
process is adequate, and that it provides for identification of appropriate measures to mitigate adverse
impacts, if any, on the vulnerable members of the community. This policy also does not cover refugees
from natural disasters, war, or civil strife (see OP/BP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
vi For purpose of this policy, " involuntary" means actions that may be taken without the displaced
person's informed consent or power of choice.
vii "Land" includes anything growing on or permanently affixed to land, such as buildings and crops.
This policy does not apply to regulations of natural resources on a national or regional level to promote
their sustainability, such as watershed management, groundwater management, fisheries management,
etc. The policy also does not apply to disputes between private parties in land titling projects, although
it is good practice for the borrowers to under take a social assessment and implement measures to
minimize and mitigate adverse social impacts, especially those affecting poor and vulnerable groups.
viii For the purposes of this policy, involuntary restriction of access covers restrictions on the use of
resources imposed on people living outside the park or protected area, or on those who continue living
inside the park or protected area during and after project implementation. In cases where new parks
and protected areas are created as part of the project, persons who lose shelter, land, or other assets are
covered under para. 3(a). Persons who lose shelter in existing parks and protected areas are also
covered under para 3(a).
ix The Resettlement Sourcebook (forthcoming) provides good practice guidance to staff on the policy.
x "Replacement cost" is the method of valuation of assets that helps determine the amount sufficient to
replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying this method of valuation, depreciation of
structures and assets should not be taken into account (for a detailed definition of replacement cost, see
Annex A, footnote 1). For losses that can not easily be valued or compensated for in monetary terms
73



(e.g., access to public services, customers, and suppliers; or to fishing, grazing, or forest areas),
attempts are made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning
opportunities. Where domestic law does not meet the standard of compensation at full replacement
cost, compensation under domestic law is supplemented by additional measures necessary to meet the
replacement cost standard. Such additional assistance is distinct from resettlement assistance to be
provided under other clauses of para. 6.
xi If the residual of the asset being taken is not economically viable, compensation and other resettlement
assistance are provided as if the entire asset had been taken.
xii The alternative assets are provided with adequate tenure arrangements. The cost of alternative
residential housing, housing sites, business premises, and agricultural sites to be provided can be set
off against all or part of the compensation payable for the corresponding asset lost.
xiii Such support could take the form of short-term jobs, subsistence support, salary maintenance or
similar arrangements.
xiv See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
xv See OP 4.04, Natural Habitats.
xvi As a general principle, this applies if the land taken constitutes less than 20% of the total productive
area.
xvii Paras 13-15 do not apply to impacts covered under para. 3(b) of this policy. The eligibility criteria
for displaced persons under 3(b) are covered under the process framework (see paras. 7 and 30)
xviii Such claims could be derived from adverse possession, from continued possession of public lands
without government action for eviction (that is with the implicit leave of the government), or from
customary and traditional law and usage, and so on.
xix Resettlement assistance may consist of land, other assets, cash, employment, and so on as appropriate.
xx.Normally, this cut-off date is the date the census begins. The cut-off date could also be the date the
project area was delineated, prior to the census, provided that there has been an effective public
dissemination of information on the area delineated, and systematic and continuous dissemination
subsequent to the delineation to prevent further population influx.
xxi For project that are highly risky or contentious, or that involve significant and complex resettlement
activities, the borrower should normally engage an advisory panel of independent, internationally
recognized resettlement specialists to advise on all aspects of the project relevant to the resettlement
activities. The size, role, and frequency of meeting depend on the complexity of the resettlement. If
independent technical advisory panels are established under OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, the
resettlement panel may form part of the environmental panel of experts. See BP 17.50, Disclosure of
Operational Information (forthcoming) for detailed disclosure procedures.
xxii See BP 17.50 Disclosure of Operational Information (forth coming) for detailed disclosure
procedures.
74



xxiii An exception to this requirement may be made in highly unusual circumstances (such as emergency
recovery operations) with the approval of Bank Management (see BP 4.12, para.8). In such cases, the
Management's approval stipulates a timetable and budget for developing the resettlement plan.
xxiv Impacts are considered "minor" if the affecte4d people are not physically displaced and less than
10% of their productive assets are lost.
xxv For purpose of this paragraph, the term "subprojects" includes components and subcomponents.
xxvi "Bank" includes IDA; "loans" includes credits. Guarantees, Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advances and grants; and "projects" includes projects under (a) adaptable program lending; (b)
learning and innovation loans; (c) PPFs and Intuitional Development Funds (IDFs), if they include
investment activities; (d) grants under the Global Environment Facility and Montreal Protocol, for
which the Bank is the implementing / executing agency; and (e) grants or loans provided by other
donors that are administered by the Bank. The term "project" does not include programs under
adjustment operations. "Borrower" also includes, wherever the context requires, the guarantor or the
project implementing agency.
xxvii In devising approaches to resettlement in Bank - assisted projects, other Bank policies should be
taken into account, as relevant. These policies include OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.04
Natural Habitats, OP 4.11 Safeguarding Cultural Property in Bank-Assisted Projects, and OD 4.20
Indigenous Peoples.
xxviii The term "displaced persons" refers to persons who are affected in any of the ways described in
para. 3 of this OP.
xxix Displaced persons under para. 3(b) should be assisted in their efforts to improve or restore their
livelihoods in a manner that maintains the sustainability of the parks and protected areas.
xxx Where there are adverse indirect social or economic impacts, it is good practice for the borrower to
undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize and mitigate adverse economic
and social impacts, particularly upon poor and vulnerable groups. Other environmental, social, and
economic impacts that do not result from land taking may be identified and addressed through
environmental assessments and other project reports and instruments.
xxxi This policy does not apply to restrictions of access to natural resources under community-based
projects, i.e where the community using the resources decides to restrict access to these resources,
provided that an assessment satisfactory to the Bank establishes that the community decision-making
process is adequate, and that it provides for identification of appropriate measures to mitigate adverse
impacts, if any, on the vulnerable members of the community. This policy also does not cover refugees
from natural disasters, war, or civil strife (see OP/BP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
xxxii For purpose of this policy, " involuntary" means actions that may be taken without the displaced
person's informed consent or power of choice.
xxxiii "Land" includes anything growing on or permanently affixed to land, such as buildings and crops.
This policy does not apply to regulations of natural resources on a national or regional level to promote
their sustainability, such as watershed management, groundwater management, fisheries management,
75



etc. The policy also does not apply to disputes between private parties in land titling projects, although
it is good practice for the borrowers to under take a social assessment and implement measures to
minimize and mitigate adverse social impacts, especially those affecting poor and vulnerable groups.
xxxiv For the purposes of this policy, involuntary restriction of access covers restrictions on the use of
resources imposed on people living outside the park or protected area, or on those who continue living
inside the park or protected area during and after project implementation. In cases where new parks
and protected areas are created as part of the project, persons who lose shelter, land, or other assets are
covered under para. 3(a). Persons who lose shelter in existing parks and protected areas are also
covered under para 3(a).
xxxv The Resettlement Sourcebook (forthcoming) provides good practice guidance to staff on the policy.
xxxvi "Replacement cost" is the method of valuation of assets that helps determine the amount sufficient
to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying this method of valuation, depreciation of
structures and assets should not be taken into account (for a detailed definition of replacement cost, see
Annex A, footnote 1). For losses that can not easily be valued or compensated for in monetary terms
(e.g., access to public services, customers, and suppliers; or to fishing, grazing, or forest areas),
attempts are made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning
opportunities. Where domestic law does not meet the standard of compensation at full replacement
cost, compensation under domestic law is supplemented by additional measures necessary to meet the
replacement cost standard. Such additional assistance is distinct from resettlement assistance to be
provided under other clauses of para. 6.
xxxvii If the residual of the asset being taken is not economically viable, compensation and other
resettlement assistance are provided as if the entire asset had been taken.
xxxviii The alternative assets are provided with adequate tenure arrangements. The cost of alternative
residential housing, housing sites, business premises, and agricultural sites to be provided can be set
off against all or part of the compensation payable for the corresponding asset lost.
xxxix Such support could take the form of short-term jobs, subsistence support, salary maintenance or
similar arrangements.
xl See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
xli See OP 4.04, Natural Habitats.
xlii As a general principle, this applies if the land taken constitutes less than 20% of the total productive
area.
xliii Paras 13-15 do not apply to impacts covered under para. 3(b) of this policy. The eligibility criteria
for displaced persons under 3(b) are covered under the process framework (see paras. 7 and 30)
xliv Such claims could be derived from adverse possession, from continued possession of public lands
without govemment action for eviction (that is with the implicit leave of the government), or from
customary and traditional law and usage, and so on.
76



xlv Resettlement assistance may consist of land, other assets, cash, employment, and so on as appropriate.
xlvi Normally, this cut-off date is the date the census begins. The cut-off date could also be the date the
project area was delineated, prior to the census, provided that there has been an effective public
dissemination of information on the area delineated, and systematic and continuous dissemination
subsequent to the delineation to prevent further population influx.
xlvii For project that are highly risky or contentious, or that involve significant and complex resettlement
activities, the borrower should normally engage an advisory panel of independent, internationally
recognized resettlement specialists to advise on all aspects of the project relevant to the resettlement
activities. The size, role, and frequency of meeting depend on the complexity of the resettlement. If
independent technical advisory panels are established under OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, the
resettlement panel may form part of the environmental panel of experts. See BP 17.50, Disclosure of
Operational Information (forthcoming) for detailed disclosure procedures.
xlviii See BP 17.50 Disclosure of Operational Information (forth coming) for detailed disclosure
procedures.
xlix An exception to this requirement may be made in highly unusual circumstances (such as emergency
recovery operations) with the approval of Bank Management (see BP 4.12, para.8). In such cases, the
Management's approval stipulates a timetable and budget for developing the resettlement plan.
I Impacts are considered "minor" if the affecte4d people are not physically displaced and less than 10% of
their productive assets are lost.
li For purpose of this paragraph, the term "subprojects" includes components and subcomponents.
77



