                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No.: 97699




        PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                SRI LANKA

Bridging the Divide: World Bank Assistance for Sustainable Social and
           Economic integration in Post-Conflict Sri Lanka

                 A Performance Assessment of the
     Northeast Emergency Irrigated Agriculture Project (P058070)

                                June 30, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                   ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.)

2004             US$1.00           =       Rs. 76.28
2005             US$1.00           =       Rs. 83.17
2006             US$1.00           =       Rs. 92.19
2007             US$1.00           =       Rs. 104.21
2008             US$1.00           =       Rs. 107.51
2009             US$1.00           =       Rs. 114.84
2010             US$1.00           =       Rs. 108.43

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community Based Organization
CDD      Community-Driven Development
GDF      Gemi Diriya Foundation
GND      Gram Niladhari Division
GOSL     Government of Sri Lanka
HH       Household
IAS      End line assessment Study of 2010
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICRR     Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
IEGPS    IEG Public Sector Evaluation
LTTE     Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
MIS      Management Information System
MTR      Mid-term Review
NEIAP    Northeast Emergency Irrigated Agriculture Project
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PPAR     Project Performance Assessment Report
UNHCR    United Nations High Commission for Refugees
VO       Village Organization
VSCO     Village Savings and Credit Organization
VSHLI    Village Self-Help Learning Initiative



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1- December 31



Director-General, Independent Evaluation                     :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                       :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond, Acting
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                        :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
Secondee, USAID Bureau of Policy and Planning                    Mr. Travis Mayo
Consultant, Field Manager/ Facilitator (Focus Groups)            Ms. Kathryn Steingraber
                                                                    v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Acknowledgements ............................................................................................................ ix
Preface................................................................................................................................. x
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
       Project Objectives and Design .................................................................................... 2
       Project Components .................................................................................................... 2
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 3
       Project Dates and Costs .............................................................................................. 4
4. Relevance of Project Objectives and Design .................................................................. 4
   Relevance of Project Design ........................................................................................... 5
       Reestablish a Subsistence level of Production and Community-Based Services ....... 8
       Gender Related Impacts .............................................................................................. 9
       Capacity Strengthening ............................................................................................... 9
6. Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 13
       Monitoring and Evaluation Design and Implementation .......................................... 13
7. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 14
8. Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 15
9. Risk to Development Outcomes ................................................................................... 15
10. The World Bank’s Safeguards Policies: Environmental and Social Sustainability .... 15
11. Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................................ 16
       Bank Performance ..................................................................................................... 16
       Quality of Supervision .............................................................................................. 16
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 18
       Government Performance ......................................................................................... 18
       Implementing Agency Performance ......................................................................... 19
12. Lessons ........................................................................................................................ 19
References ......................................................................................................................... 21
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 23
This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer and Rural Livelihoods Specialist in
the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank in collaboration Kathryn Steingraber, Consultant
IEG. The PPAR mission was conducted in June 2014. The report was peer reviewed by John R. Eriksson
and Panel Reviewed by Jack. W. van Holst Pellekaan. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                            vi


Annex B. List of People met ............................................................................................. 24


Figures
Figure 1: Mapping the Distribution of NEIAP Assistance across Districts........................ 6
                                                               vii


Principal Ratings
Sri Lanka: North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project (P058070)
                             ICR*                   ICR Review**                                              PPAR
Outcome                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                           Moderately
                                                                                                           Unsatisfactory
Risk to                     Likely                      Likely                                              Un-Evaluable
Development             (Sustainability)            (Sustainability)
Outcome
Bank                      Satisfactory                Satisfactory                                          Moderately
Performance                                                                                                Unsatisfactory
Borrower                  Satisfactory                Satisfactory                                              Moderately
Performance                                                                                                     Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.
**The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                 Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                       Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal             Nihal Fernando/Geoffrey                     Ridwan Ali                        Mariana Todorova
                              Spencer

Completion                   Nihal Fernando                  Constance A. Bernard                     Peter C. Harrold
                                                          viii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                ix


Acknowledgements
This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer and Rural Livelihoods
Specialist in the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank in collaboration with Travis
Mayo, USAID Bureau of Policy and Planning (seconded to IEG at the time of this review) and
Kathryn Steingraber, consultant. Vichitrani (Vichi) Liyana Gunawardene, Rural Livelihoods
Consultant (World Bank, FAO) was instrumental in orienting the team to the country, sector
issues and relevant decentralized agencies. Prachita Shetty provided superb research assistance in
Washington DC. Samanmalee Kumari Sirimanne and Daphne Manjula Jebamani of the World
Bank Country Office in Colombo provided in-country support. The review was overseen by
Marie Gaarder, Manager, Public Sector Evaluation. It was peer reviewed by John R. Eriksson
and Panel reviewed by Jack W. van Holst Pellekaan.
                                              x


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report of the North-East Irrigated Agriculture
Project (P058070) that became effective in March 2000 and that closed in June 2005. The
estimated project cost at appraisal was US$32.4 million, including US$27 million of IDA
financing, a US$4.0 million contribution from the Government, and US$1.4 million from the
project affected communities. Actual project finance was $32.1 million representing 99
percent of the appraised cost.

This project closed nine years prior to the conduct of this assessment. While that posed a
challenge for identifying stakeholders and validating their responses, the project lent direct
support to beneficiaries living in Sri Lanka’s conflict affected areas during and in-between
periods of active conflict. The PPAR was therefore chosen to provide input into IEG’s
Conflict and Fragility, Phase II Evaluation, for which Sri Lanka is a case study. After project
close, the World Bank supported a second phase – a project referred to as the Reawakening
project – that underwent restructuring in 2007 and that was still under implementation at the
time of the IEG mission. While IEG was not able to assess and rate that project, owing to its
then active status, IEG worked with the Project Management Team, many of whom were also
present during the first phase. The particular focus of this assessment was on the design and
approach, on the way that land and water based assets were allocated and managed in the
northern and eastern provinces of Sri Lanka during a conflict affected period. IEG
recognizes that many of the physical results supported by the project were broken or
destroyed as a consequence of the resurgence of active conflict after project close.

The assessment is based on a review of all relevant documentation, interviews of Bank staff
at headquarters and in the country office, and the findings of an Independent Evaluation
Group (IEG) mission which visited Sri Lanka in June 2014 to discuss performance with
officials engaged with the project, representatives of UN and donor agencies (UNDP,
UNHCR, IOM, WFP, FAO), implementing NGOs (SevaLanka), and other stakeholders. IEG
notes that while extensive fieldwork was planned, including the conduct of focus groups in
the northern and eastern areas with members of the societies supported by the project, IEG’s
fieldwork was interrupted by a request by the Central Government to attend meetings in
Colombo which severely limited IEG’s ability to obtain beneficiary feedback.

The list of persons met during the mission is attached in Annex C and their cooperation and
assistance in preparing the report is gratefully acknowledged. Copies of the draft PPAR have
been sent to government officials and implementing agencies for their review. No comments
were received.
                                                  xi


Executive Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report of the North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project that
became effective in March 2000 and that closed in June 2005. The estimated project cost at appraisal
was US$32.4 million, including US$27 million of IDA financing, a US$4.0 million contribution from
the Government, and US$1.4 million from the project affected communities. Actual project finance
was $32.1 million representing 99 percent of the appraised cost.

The project was designed during a very chaotic period of Sri Lankan history, sixteen years into a 26
year civil war that would kill between 60,000 and 100,000 people and displace an estimated 800,000
persons by the war’s end. It was developed in the absence of a Country Assistance Strategy, owing to
the priority that the Government and the international community were then placing on brokering
peace, and the related inability of the Government to pursue much needed macroeconomic reforms in
the midst of war. Nevertheless, having tested methods for delivering critical infrastructure support in
conflict affected - areas as components of prior projects- the Northeast Irrigated Agriculture Project
set out to wholly support the populations living in Sri Lanka’s most conflict affected areas.

The Project Development Objective was to “help conflict affected communities in the North-
East and adjoining areas reestablish at least a subsistence level of production and community-
based services through provision of assistance for jump-starting agricultural and small-scale
reconstruction activities, and to build the capacity of such communities for sustainable social
and economic reintegration”. Recognizing the critical role that agriculture plays in supporting food
security and livelihoods throughout the country, but especially in the northern and eastern regions
where irrigation and other community related infrastructure was severely dilapidated due to the
protracted conflict, the project focused on the essential rehabilitation of major and minor irrigation
schemes, rural road repair, and other critical service delivery needs, such as the provision of drinking
water. Second, it focused on building capacity for social and economic recovery in communities.

The Relevance of the project objective is rated Substantial. Ensuring basic access to agriculture
was a priority in the 1996 and the 2003 World Bank Country Assistance Strategies. The objective was
also in line with the World Bank’s 2003 Country Assistance Strategy that focused on providing
urgent assistance to the conflict affected populations of the northern and eastern areas. This focus on
capacity building – especially of the social institutions that would be needed to support land and
water allocation decisions -- is in line with the World Development Report 2011 on Conflict, Security
and Development and lessons from the broader literature on social capital and participatory rural
development. While responsive to the needs of Sri Lanka’s conflict affected communities, the
relevance of the objective could have been strengthened by reversing the two elements of the
objective statement, by placing human and social capacity at the forefront of the project objective -
and by linking this empowerment aim to the articulation of local infrastructure needs.

The Relevance of Design is rated Modest. There was a tension in project design –between the aim
of pursuing a participatory and demand driven approach – and the need for conflict-sensitivity in
project coverage, including attention to geography and ethnicity and community perceptions. Sub-
project selection lacked a transparent structure; it was designed to filter for risk (proof of land
ownership was a prerequisite) rather than an evaluation of needs or capacity to manage the project
distributed assets. The first and only donor project to be directly implemented by the then newly
elected Northeast Provincial Council, the Bank is credited for taking a risk and assisting with the
development of capacity for decentralized service delivery capacity.
                                                  xii


The project only Modestly met its objective of helping conflict affected communities in the
Northern and Eastern and adjoining areas reestablish at least a subsistence level of production
and community-based services. The project financed the essential rehabilitation of 379 irrigation
schemes, but by project end, only 275 schemes were handed-over to Farmer Organizations. This
process – of handing over a scheme - signifies that the responsibility for the local works had been
effectively transferred from the dedicated agency to the community based organization that requested
its repair. While the discrepancy can be in part attributed to the uncertainty of the operating
environment, it can also be attributed to the limitations associated with the selection criteria. In
addition to the schemes, the project financed the repair of 1,294 km of rural roads. While the roads –
mainly feeder roads – provided access to paddy fields, markets, main roads, schools, health centers
etc. they were too small and fragmented to have had an effect on agricultural markets. The project
also supplied drinking water wells. Against an original target of 300 wells, the project supplied 775
wells, in response to village needs. Of the 775 wells constructed, only 547 wells were handed over to
the rural development societies. While the wells improved the supply of drinking water and enabled
time saving, especially for women, the challenges faced during the hand-over resulted in some 200
wells that were not transferred to, and therefore not owned by a community. Similarly, of the 379
village buildings constructed, only 291 centers were handed over to a community organization. The
lesson that emerged during the field mission is the need to target and support human and social capital
as part of the process of planning for the provision of physical capital – based on an assessment of
human, social and institutional capacity needs, and to stay closely engaged during implementation.

The project Modestly achieved its second objective of building capacity of the conflict affected
communities to achieve sustainable social and economic reintegration. The project re-activated
Women’s Rural Development Societies and engaged male only Rural Development and Farmer
Organizations for the purpose of project implementation. The project economically and socially
reintegrated 307 Women’s Rural Development Societies by registering the groups and by providing
them with seed finance. As a result, roughly 3000 women gained access to group savings and lending
for small productive investments. The revolving loan recovery rates were highly variable: between
47 to 84 percent in the focal districts and between 13 to 54 percent in the border areas. While
attributable to insufficient or uneven attention to training for financial management and accounting,
IEG also found that the low repayment rates were attributable to pressure from a husband or other
household members to take a loan or invest in a sub-project that was unlikely to generate a large
enough return to repay the loan and earn a profit. Group interviews revealed that the revolving funds
were used as a safety net during the multiple phases of displacement that took place after project
close. The project also supported the reactivation, creation, or strengthening of 360 Rural
Development Societies and 371 Farmer Organizations, whose members were only males. The project
provided training on financial management, bookkeeping, and sustainability of funds, however none
of the male rural development societies interviewed engaged in group lending, unlike the women’s
societies. IEG found no evidence that the capacity of either of these groups, beyond having been
reactivated, was supported by the project at more than a modest level.

Stronger results in this area, of achieving social and economic integration of the conflict affected
persons in Sri Lanka, would have included support for and evidence of attention to language, culture,
and behavior amongst the different groups. Economic integration was only modestly achieved, since
many of the hand-overs of capital investments did not occur and there is evidence that other assets,
like rural roads, did not contribute economically. With high variability of repayment of the revolving
loans, there is evidence that only a fraction of the women who participated actually benefitted
economically from the project.

Efficiency is rated Substantial, owing to the relatively good rate of return for the irrigation schemes
(representing 30 percent of actual total costs) that, although lower than anticipated, produced an
                                                  xiii


average financial return of Rs 14,131 per ha of cropped area, estimated to be 60 percent higher than
the without-project situation for those beneficiaries that received the schemes. Net return to family
labor was estimated to average Rs 554 per day, which at the time of project implementation exceeded
the agricultural peak period wage rates as well as average off-farm wages. An assessment of the
Livelihood Support Component that included 66 case studies conducted in 41 villages found that
investments in small shops, water pumps and goats had the highest rate of return ranging from 92 to
108 percent, the rate of return on highland cultivation and draft bulls was 59 percent, but investments
in milking cows were not viable due to the use of local breeds with low milk yields. The analysis also
found that the water pumps, small shops and goats generated net incremental income ranging from
Rs1800 to 2050 per month per beneficiary family, which compared favorably to the official poverty
line for Sri Lanka of Rs 1736 per month per capita (2005 prices). The project at completion estimated
that the rural roads constructed could generate an economic rate of return of 12 percent, although this
rate of return appears high in the light of the borrower’s comments that the roads were too small to
support market connectivity.

Outcome Based on Substantial rating for the Relevance of Objectives and Efficiency, but a Modest
rating for the achievement of the project objectives and the Relevance of Design, the overall rating for
this project is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Bank Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Quality of Entry is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The project implementation arrangements were designed flexibly to respond to
emerging needs and only temporary repairs were supported, a prudent design decision in a highly
unstable operating environment. The project was also designed to assess, monitor and be sensitive to
the social situation. Satisfactory completion of a Social Profiling exercise was a condition of
disbursement of funding for civil works. However project design was undermined by the lack of a
transparent method for beneficiary and investment selection. It also lacked a Management
Information System to integrate the various NGOs and UN activities. The Results Framework was not
designed to adequately capture the qualitative outcomes of the project. Gender (and vulnerability)
was also not well integrated into the project at the time of design. Quality of Supervision is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory. There was a disconnect between supervision provisions in the PAD,
including the various conflict sensitive tools that were intended to be implemented, and the actual
implementation of the project, including the manner by which supervision was conducted. This
assessment recognizes that the Bank supervised the project under very difficult security, logistical and
human resource constraints. But it also finds that the implementation focus was too heavily tilted
towards the rehabilitation and construction of hardware while paying scant attention to the fractured
societal dynamics that, in tandem, required support and repair. The sensitive social tools that were
proposed at design were utilized as a means to manage risk rather than to implement the project
objective of socially reintegrating the affected communities. This was a missed opportunity.

Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Government performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. There was strong inter-agency coordination between the National
Government and the Provincial and District Level authorities. The Ministry of Defense, the Finance
External Resources Department, and the Ministry of Provincial Councils and Local Government
together provided an authoring environment and an agreed license to operate. The Ministry of
Provincial Councils and Local Government provided policy support, timely allocation of counterpart
funding, and strategic guidance from the center. The project was directly overseen by the North East
Provincial Council. The project represented the first time that any donor had worked directly with the
newly decentralized authority. The North East Provincial Council supported an open and transparent
dialogue between the Bank, the Council and the LTTE, with regard to the implementation of
operations, especially in rebel controlled areas. It also allowed for effective coordination with the
District authorities. The Government’s strategy of allocating aid to irrigation schemes, rather than
                                                  xiv




targeting beneficiaries based on a transparent assessment of need, undermined the efficacy of this
project however.

Implementing Agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project was
administered by a Project Management Unit lodged within the Council. Overall, the PMU provided
adequate project oversight. Financial Management was rated Satisfactory throughout the life of the
project and all financial covenants were complied with. However, notwithstanding meeting these
requirements, there were some weaknesses associated with financial management and procurement,
which can be attributed to several factors: (1) the untested capacity of the newly elected Council and
the PMU; (2) the fact that this was the first project directly implemented by the Council; and (3) the
instability of the operating environment.

Lessons

Lending for land-based assets in a protracted conflict affected situation, characterized by
massive displacement, should be sequenced within a broader social development framework
that balances individual needs with equity aims. In a conflict affected situation, where war is
associated with grievances of minorities, the distribution of assets and associated impacts can threaten
a fragile peace. In the case of the North East Irrigated Agriculture Project, the distribution of assets
(mainly repair) was highly uneven across the project area; repair was neither based on a vulnerability
index nor stratified to ensure fair treatment across different groups in the project areas.

The term “post-conflict” should be used sparingly in the absence of a negotiated peace
agreement and World Bank projects should accordingly exercise caution in project design in
situations where conflict may re-emerge. The North Eastern Irrigated Agriculture project in Sri
Lanka was developed on the basis of an optimistic country assistance strategy and a temporary cease-
fire. While all signs pointed towards the need for caution, both the country assistance strategy and the
project were designed to support reconstruction activities, in line with a post-conflict and
reconstruction strategy. This exuberance masked the need to think more proactively about societal
healing, institutional development, and good governance reforms that are needed during a country’s
fragile transition from war. In the case of Sri Lanka, hindsight clearly signifies that the level of
attention that was awarded to post conflict reconstruction was premature.

There is a tension between responding to the immediate needs of conflict affected populations
and the use of a community driven development model to respond to these needs in fluid or
highly mobile environments. While the Northeast Emergency Irrigated Agriculture project in Sri
Lanka was highly responsive to the urgent needs of persons living in conflicted affected areas, it
financed physical works that were not utilized due to continued displacement and movement of the
physical population. Humanitarian aid, in this case, may have been a better choice for the delivery of
critical services, like drinking water, than a Bank project.

Participatory development is a process that should be nurtured and supported throughout all
stages of a project cycle. In the case of the North Eastern Irrigated Agriculture Project, participatory
needs assessments and capacity building activities were conducted to reduce the risks associated with
the unequal/inequitable distribution of village assets and to ensure ownership of the assets that were
being repaired. The project missed an opportunity to respond to broader human and social capacity
development needs that, in the case of the North East Irrigated Agriculture Project, would have been
                                               xv


aligned with the project aim of reintegrating the conflict affected communities, both economically
and socially. This would have included attention to language, culture, and behavior and efforts to
bridge societal differences through the project means.




                                                                      Caroline Heider
                                                                      Director-General
                                                                         Evaluation
                                                    1


1. Background and Context
1.1     The North East Irrigated Agriculture Project (2000-2005) was developed during a
period of intense uncertainty in Sri Lanka, sixteen years after a civil war that had, by that
time, displaced an estimated 500,000 to 800,000 persons mainly from the northern and
eastern areas of the country. It was developed in the absence of a Country Assistance
Strategy, owing to the priority that the Government and the international community were
then placing on brokering peace, and the related inability of the Government to pursue much
needed macroeconomic reforms in the midst of war.1 While the project would be partially
implemented alongside a negotiated peace deal – brokered by Norway in 2002 – the
negotiated peace would be short lived. By April 2003, the ceasefire had broken apart but not
before the new CAS (April 2003), anchored in the fragile peace, had been approved by the
Bank’s Board.

1.2     Grounded in optimism, the 2003 CAS describes the Sri Lankan condition at the time
as a post-conflict situation in need of urgent humanitarian assistance and emergency
reconstruction. A post-conflict strategy, the CAS argued for quick wins, visibility and an
equitable distribution of benefits to the conflict affected population, especially for the
returning IDPs. The strategy shift was supported by a restructuring of the ongoing World
Bank portfolio, namely the restructuring of seven on-going projects representing about 25
percent of existing undisbursed funds. The restructuring was designed to align Bank
assistance with priorities identified in a Needs Assessment for the northern and eastern areas
that was prepared by the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the United Nations
and presented at the Kyoto Conference in June 2003. 2

1.3     The North East Irrigated Agriculture Project was in line with the thrust of the 2003
strategy since it was designed to assist the conflict affected populations of the northern and
eastern areas of the country, including by working in both “cleared” – or Government
controlled - and “uncleared” or rebel held areas. Recognizing the critical role that agriculture
plays in supporting food security and livelihoods throughout the country, but especially in the
northern and eastern regions, the project focused on the essential rehabilitation of major and
minor irrigation schemes, rural road repair, and other critical service delivery needs, such as
the provision of drinking water.

1.4     While recognizing that food security was and remains a major concern for Sri
Lanka’s rural poor, several questions arise in assessing a project designed to deliver land
based assets in an area characterized by massive displacement and during periods of active
conflict. For example, how were beneficiaries identified, engaged, and incorporated into the
development and design of the irrigation schemes and how did the project prioritize
beneficiary needs? How did the project determine whether individuals, located in the project
areas, would remain to operate and maintain the schemes after this project closed? How did

1
  The 1996 CAS covered the period June 1996-June 1999; the subsequent strategy would not be approved by
the Board until 2003, in spite of the fact that there had been only a one year planned delay.
2
  The Kyoto Conference on Reconstruction and Development of Sri Lanka was held on June 9 and 10 in Tokyo
with the participation of Ministers and representatives from 51 countries and 22 international organizations,
including the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
                                                2


the project deal with anticipated contestation of land or water use and access rights? The
project was implemented during the height of internal displacement. It was also implemented
during periods of active conflict before and after the ceasefire.



2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

2.1    The Project Development Objective, identified by both the credit agreement and
appraisal document, was to "help conflict affected communities in the North-East and
adjoining areas reestablish at least a subsistence level of production and community-based
services through provision of assistance for jump-starting agricultural and small-scale
reconstruction activities, and to build the capacity of such communities for sustainable social
and economic reintegration." This Project Performance and Assessment Report (PPAR)
assess the achievement of this objective in two parts separately:

         First objective : To help conflict affected communities in the North-East and adjoining
          areas re-establish at least a subsistence level of production and community-based services
          through provision of assistance for jump-starting agricultural and small-scale
          reconstruction activities;
         Second Objective: Build the capacity of such communities for sustainable social and
          economic reintegration.


PROJECT COMPONENTS

2.2      The project was designed with five components.

      i. Rehabilitation of irrigation schemes. Against a planned investment of US$13.6
         million, the project utilized US$11.63 million (86 percent of the appraised costs) to
         support essential and minimal rehabilitation of 400 major and minor irrigation
         schemes.

      ii. Community capacity-building and small-scale reconstruction. Against a planned
          investment of US$12.1 million, the project spent US$14.72 million (or 122 percent of
          the planned costs), on rural roads, well and community building construction. Of the
          US$14.7 million dollars spent, US$7.6 was used to rehabilitate 1,200km of rural dirt
          and gravel village roads; US$2.4 million was spent on constructing community
          centers; and US$600,000 was spent on the construction of 300 drinking water wells.
          According to the PAD, concerned community [members], especially women, would
          need to agree to the location of the wells as part of the project’s eligibility and
          feasibility criteria. Another US$2.1 million was spent on capacity building and
          training activities for the non-government and project management staff, including
          for training in methods such as conducting rapid rural appraisals and other
          participatory development techniques.
                                            3



  iii. The Development Credit Agreement was amended in January 2002 to permit (i)
       livelihood support grants to Women’s Rural Development Societies (WRDSs), and
       (ii) WRDSs to provide repayable loans to members for undertaking small individual
       household income generating activities related to: (a) agriculture and allied activities;
       (b) improved production and marketing of commodities; (c) promotion of various
       micro-enterprises; and (d) constructing common assets such as community buildings.
       The amendment reallocated US$ 2.1 million to a Livelihood Support Fund from the
       “Civil Works” category of the Credit (Component 1). The Project Development
       Objective was not modified nor were key associated outcome indicators or their
       targets changed.

   iv. Feasibility studies for rehabilitation of selected major and medium schemes .
       (appraised US$300,000; Actual US$370,000).

   v. Project implementation support and Technical and Financial Audit. Against the
      US$6.0 million planned, the project utilized US$5.39 million, (or 90 percent of the
      estimated costs), to finance the purchase of road construction equipment and to
      procure vehicles for UNHCR. Staff and consultant costs were roughly 30 percent of
      the costs. Against a planned amount of US$400,000, the project spent US$600,000 on
      technical and financial audits, including an exercise carried out to assess the quality
      of the project works and expenditures. Monitoring and Evaluation was not an explicit
      part of this component: it was neither costed nor were expected data collection
      methods, reporting or feedback mechanisms laid out as a part of the project
      components.


3. Implementation
3.1     The project was designed to cover seven focus districts within the then North-East
Province, namely Ampara, Batticaloa, Trincomalee, Vavuniya Mannar, Mullaitivu, and
Kilinochchi as well as neighboring villages of the four districts in three adjoining provinces,
namely: Monaragala (Uva), Puttalam (North West), and Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa
(North Central). Jaffna was not originally included owing to restricted access during the
project design period, but was later added by mutual agreement of the GOSL and the Bank.
Villages were chosen based on the location of irrigation schemes that were selected for
rehabilitation. The villages selected would then receive a suite of other infrastructure
services, as needed including rural roads, water supply, community infrastructure. (For a
discussion of the selectivity criteria, see the Relevance of Design and Efficacy sections
below).

3.2     Project implementation was complex owing to the need to work in both Government
and rebel controlled areas. While at the time of project design there was a certain level of
cooperation between the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the
Government with regard to the delivery of services to rebel held areas, wide consultation and
careful collaboration between several partners was needed to gain approval and access for
                                            4


project activities. The project was overseen by the North-East Provincial Council and was
implemented through the District Secretaries, Government Agents in the project area, the
United Nations High Commission for Refugees, commanders of the Sri Lanka Army, and the
political wing of the LTTE. Project execution was carried out by several international and
national NGOs who were present on the ground and able to provide critical access. These
included: : the International Center of the Red Cross, CARE International, Action Contre La
Faim, FORUT, Sarvodaya, Sewa Lanka Foundation, and the Rural Development Foundation.
The NGO community was responsible for social mobilization, which included conducting
participatory village needs assessments and social profiles, for overseeing implementation
(including community procurement and public works) and for monitoring and reporting
results to a Project Management Unit lodged within the administration of the Northeast
Provincial Council, the borrower counterpart. As confirmed in meetings with bilateral and
UN representatives present at the time, the Bank’s support for this nascent institution was
remarkable, given its newness and potential fragility, Donors and UN representatives
confirmed that the World Bank was the only entity directly supporting the newly elected
Council, but this was in part due to the technical arrangements for financing the smaller
irrigation schemes since the operations and maintenance of these schemes would be managed
at a sub-national level.

3.3     The project was implemented during a highly unstable period of Sri Lanka’s history
and implementation proved difficult, due to mobility. The movement of construction
material, for example, often faced interruption due to hostilities. While the project enjoyed
support from both sides, implementing teams put themselves routinely at risk to deliver this
program. While security conditions and mobility in the project area slowly improved after the
signing of the ceasefire agreement in February 2002, conditions shortly thereafter
deteriorated following LTTE’s withdrawal from the peace talks in April 2003, the LTTE’s
internal conflicts in March 2004, and the tsunami disaster in December 2004.

PROJECT DATES AND COSTS

3.4    Actual project costs were slightly less than expected due to the devaluation of the
rupee against the US$. The project was approved in November 1999, became effective in
March 2000 and closed as anticipated in June 2005. US$1.35 million was cancelled.



4. Relevance of Project Objectives and Design
4.1    The relevance of the project objective is rated Substantial. While responsive to the
needs of Sri Lanka’s conflict affected communities, the relevance of the objective could have
been strengthened by reversing the two elements of the objective statement, by placing
human and social capacity building at the forefront of the project objective.

4.2    Prior to the war, nearly two-thirds of the northern and eastern population of Sri Lanka
depended on farming, livestock rearing, and deep sea fishing for their livelihood. Due to the
prolonged nature of the conflict, many of the inputs needed to sustain the farm economy had
been destroyed or were in a state of disrepair, including many of the irrigation schemes
                                                5


located in the project areas. Most of the rural roads which link farming communities to
market centers were also heavily dilapidated. According to an assessment carried out prior to
the project’s appraisal, an estimated 40,000 ha of agricultural land had gone out of
production, resulting in a loss of Rs1 billion for rice and Rs2 billion for cash crop production
and sale. The priority placed on ensuring basic access to agriculture in Sri Lanka is stated in
the World Bank’s 1996 and 2003 Country Assistance Strategies.

4.3     The project’s objective also focuses attention on the need to re-build and strengthen
the human and social capacity of the war-affected populations who were residing in and
returning to the Government controlled areas of the then north-eastern province.

       “The long ethnic conflict …caused severe social disruptions resulting in trauma,
       unemployment, breakdown of traditional values, loss of self-confidence and community spirit.
       While rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure and the support services system is essential
       for reviving the economy, it is also necessary to rebuild trust and self-reliance among the
       conflict-affected communities. No meaningful and sustained rehabilitation and reconstruction
       can take place at the village level, now and in the future, without the communities themselves
       being in the "driver's seat", and participating fully in the reconstruction process” (PAD p.3).

4.4     This focus on capacity building – especially of the social institutions that would be
needed to support land and water allocation decisions (and to operate and maintain the
schemes) – is in line with the recommendations of the subsequent World Development
Report 2011 on Conflict, Security and Development and lessons from the broader literature
on social capital and participatory rural development (Uphoff 1996, Khan 2000, WDR 2011).
Recognizing the strong intent of this project to pivot its activities to community needs, this
assessment finds that the relevance of the objective could have been strengthened by
reversing the two elements of the objective statement by placing human and social capacity
building at the forefront of the objective – and by linking this empowerment aim to the
articulation of local infrastructure needs.

Relevance of Project Design
4.5    The Relevance of Design is rated Modest.

4.6     As pointed out by the Background Papers on CDD in Conflict Affected Environments,
prepared for the World Development Report on Conflict and Security (2011), “doing
development in [conflict affected] contexts is extremely hard. Even where violence has not
escalated, localized conflict may provide the sparks for future fires, and development
programs can become implicated in cycles of violence….Effective CDD projects can
distribute resources quickly and to remote, rural areas. In devolving decision-making they
can help ensure resource distribution is fair and popularly accepted and can operate in areas
with security risks (Barron 2010).

4.7    The Northeast Irrigated Agriculture project included aspects of a CDD approach, but
the primary good provided – irrigation repair – was supplied through a farmer application
                                                            6


process which lacked both transparency and an effective communication strategy. 3 Mission
interviews revealed that the irrigation departments also supplied lists of schemes that needed
repair. It then followed that other goods and services provided by the project would be
delivered to these areas, where the irrigation schemes had been chosen. Villagers could pick
from a menu of options (roads, wells, and community buildings) through a CDD type process
facilitated by NGOs. Data obtained by the mission from the former project management
office reveals that the process resulted in a high level of geographic unevenness in the
distribution of the infrastructure (See Heatmap, Figure 1). Taking into account the mobility
issues faced in the border districts, the data reveals that there was significant unevenness in
the distribution of completed infrastructure across the seven focus districts – or the main
areas targeted by the project, with villages in or near Vavuniya having received 3- 4 times the
goods and services that other areas received.

    Figure 1: Mapping the Distribution of NEIAP Assistance across Districts
                                                                          Project Activities Completed

          District                            Community     Irrigation     Rural   Wells
                               Villages       Based Orgs     schemes       Roads Total                Multi-Purpose
                                  (#)             (#)           (#)        (Km)   (#)                 Buildings (#)
    Ampara*                           30              120            30     111.6      81                                 30
    Batticaloa*                       50              176            41     232.6     152                                 50
    Trincomalee*                      42              154            40     160.3     125                                 41
    Vavuniya*                       100               384           105       324     103                                100
    Mannar*                           37              149            39      79.1      67                                 36
    Kilinochchi*                      30              110            26     123.8      68                                 30
    Mullaitivu*                       30              114            29       101      90                                 30
    Anuradhapura**                      20            72            20         67           19                            20
    Polannaruwa**                        8            28             5        25.8          20                             8
    Moneragala**                         9            34             6         30           33                             9
    Puttalam**                          10            31             4        43.5          24                            10
    Jaffna**                            30            81            33           0           0                            15
           Total                        396         1057          378      1298.7         782                            379
    *Target Districts ** Border Areas




3
  Scheme selection was coordinated by the seven District Secretaries who were charged with gauging farmer demand. For
this purpose, it was expected that the District Secretaries would use the existing public offices such as the Grama Niladhari
(village level government representative) and the Agrarian Service Centers to inform the communities of the existence of the
project, its scope, and eligibility/feasibility criteria for receiving assistance. Farmer organizations who were made aware of
the program and who wanted their irrigation schemes restored or rehabilitated, and who satisfied the eligibility criteria,
would request assistance from the Agrarian Service Centers. On the basis of a sample questionnaire, the centers would check
whether the village, scheme, and the famer organization appeared to meet the eligibility/feasibility criteria and if so, the
centers would pass the request to the respective Divisional Secretaries. [The criteria presumably included technical criteria
to justify rehabilitation of an existing irrigation scheme, its condition, etc. Such criteria could of course also be skewed –
intentionally or unintentionally.]
                                              7


4.8     The project’s selection criteria, in addition to the selection process, contributed to the
uneven distribution of goods and services in the conflict affected northern and eastern areas.
The project selection criteria was mainly motivated by mitigating risk. Applicants had to
show proof that the land targeted for repair was owned by one or members of the farmer
applicant group. Specifically, project criteria required both proof of land ownership and an
assurance that more than 80 percent of the original farm families were already residing and
using the scheme for farming (or that 80 percent of the original settlers would be returning,
or willing to return if the scheme was restored). The criteria also stipulated that a farmer
organization or an alternative community based organization capable of operating and
managing the infrastructure had to have already have been in existence, or that one could be
formed immediately.

4.9      There are several inconsistencies between the process and criteria for
distributing aid in this project, and the thrust of the project aim. The process ran the risk
of exacerbating grievances with regard to the unclear or unfair distribution of assets in the
project areas. It is noteworthy that the project did not include a grievance redress mechanism,
or if attempted, this mechanism was not reported by the project. The selection criteria would
have resulted in the more resilient and affluent groups receiving the major assets.

4.10     It is also unclear whether there were any contestations over land in relation to the
official claims that were provided to the project to request repair. The project implementation
period was one of the most chaotic periods of Sri Lankan history with regard to the
movement of internally displaced persons. With the cessation of military activities in early
2002, the government began focusing on the return and resettlement of the estimated 800,000
persons internally displaced by the conflict. It was envisaged that 200,000 IDPs would be
returned or resettled by the end of 2002 and the remaining 600,000 by end 2004. In reality,
much of the movement of persons during this time was spontaneous and uncoordinated, as
displaced persons and refugee communities reentered the north and east - at least temporarily
- to assess the state of their property and the security situation. By November 2004, the
UNHCR reported that some 379,000 displaced had returned, with more than half moving to
the Jaffna district (181,000). Other districts to which large numbers of people returned
include Kilinochchi (85,800), Mullaitivu (37,900) and Vavuniya (25,600) (MRRR &
UNHCR, 2004). Most of the returnees were subsistence farmers, fishermen, agricultural
laborers or unskilled workers who would need strong support to restart their livelihoods.

4.11 Project design did not include a gender informed approach. Irrigation repair was
requested by farmer organizations (male). The project enhanced its relevance by integrating a
Livelihood Support Activities component in January 2002 through an amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement that included support women and vulnerable (landless)
populations. However women’s voices were not integrated into the core design elements of
the project. The project design lacked some of the social inclusion tools that were
concurrently being implemented in other World Bank supported projects in Sri Lanka, such
as the quota system in the Gemi Diriya, or Raising the Village, project (IEG, 2014).
                                             8


5. Efficacy
REESTABLISH A SUBSISTENCE LEVEL OF PRODUCTION AND COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES

5.1     The project Modestly met its objective of helping conflict affected communities in
the Northern and Eastern and adjoining areas reestablish at least a subsistence level of
production and community-based services. The project financed the essential rehabilitation
of 379 irrigation schemes, against a target of 400 schemes, in 396 focal villages. Of the 379
schemes rehabilitated by project end, 275 schemes were handed-over by the Government
agencies to respective Farmer Organizations. The process – of handing over a scheme -
signified that the responsibility for the local works had been effectively transferred from the
dedicated agency responsible for rehabilitation/repair to the community based organization
that requested its repair – in effect – signifying that the scheme will be utilized, managed and
operated. Although there was an intention to continue to hand over the schemes during a
second phase, the resurgence of major conflict between2006-2009 prevented this assessment
from validating those potential post-project achievements.

5.2      The 275 schemes that were handed over helped to restore irrigation services to a
command area larger than anticipated – the schemes covered 21,944 ha versus 16,000 ha
without the project. Within the project area, paddy crop yield increased through a switch
from rain-fed production (2.5 tons/ha) to irrigated production (3.9 tons/ha) and cropping
intensity increased from 103 to 132 percent. (In addition, a small area of high-value cash
crops was introduced, which included chili, onions, brinjhal and tomato). While the outcomes
of these services are positive, the less than anticipated hand-over ratio implies that some 104
schemes were built rehabilitated with project funds that could have been directed towards
other purposes. While the discrepancy between the planned versus actual schemes handed
over can be in part attributed to the uncertainty of the operating environment, it can also be
attributed to the limitations associated with the selection criteria. Qualitative data on the
status of communities and the strength of their community based organizations was collected
after the schemes had been selected. There is no evidence, for example, that the proposed
social impact monitoring was used to identify or reinforce capacity in villages that proposed
irrigation repair but that, by project end, were not able to operate or maintain them.

5.3     The relevant lesson that emerged during the field mission is the need to target and
support human capital– prior to – and then alongside the provision of physical capital –
based on an assessment of human, social and institutional capacity needs, and to stay closely
engaged during implementation. Evidence regarding the need to think more meaningfully
about the link between capacity development and welfare is derived in part from the way that
the project utilized its social assessment instrument. Rather than an iterative engagement tool,
the project refers to its social assessment as a “social safeguards-cum-risk management
manual” that was prepared to “address proactively, potential reputational risks related to the
unauthorized occupation of irrigated land of the displaced people” (ICR. P.7). District Social
Profiles were not completed until the Mid-Term Review and, even then, these were used
mainly as a risk screening tool.

5.4   Villages that were targeted for essential irrigation repair also received an integrated
package of support. In addition to the schemes, the project financed the repair or
                                             9


reconstruction of 1,294 km of rural roads (as compared to the target of 1,200 km), mostly 3-4
km each. The roads – mainly feeder roads – have provided rural residents with greater access
to their paddy fields, market places, main roads and other service institutions such as schools,
Health Centers Cooperatives and postal services etc. However, the roads that were built were
too small and fragmented to have had an effect on agricultural markets.

5.5     The project also supplied drinking water wells. Against, an original target of 300
wells, the project remained supplied a total of 775 wells, in response to village needs. Like
the irrigation schemes however, of the 775 wells constructed, only 547 wells were handed
over to farmer organizations or women’s rural development societies. While the construction
of wells improved the supply of drinking water and enabled time saving, especially for
women, the challenges faced during the hand-over resulted in some 200 wells that were not
“owned” by a community. Similarly, of the 379 village level buildings and multi-purpose
community centers constructed, 291 centers had been handed over to the Rural Development
and Women’s Rural Development Societies by project end. The centers that were handed
over were used as community meeting places, shelters for kindergarten classes, mobile health
clinics, agro-service centers, WRDS’s secretariat, and sometimes as a place for wedding
functions. Interviews with the NGOs that implemented this part of the project indicated that
the high level of movement of persons contributed to this effect.

GENDER RELATED IMPACTS

5.6     The installation of functioning water wells reduced carry time for women by 1 to 2
hours per day, provided safer water for an estimated 95,500 people, including women, and
were reported by the ICR to have improved public health. The installation of water pumps,
small shops and the procurement of small livestock (goats) is reported to have generated net
incremental incomes ranging from Rs.1800 to 2050 per month (2005 prices) that would have
benefited women.

CAPACITY STRENGTHENING

5.7     The project Modestly achieved its second objective of building capacity of the
conflict affected communities for sustainable social and economic reintegration.

Reactivation, Creation and Strengthening of Community Based Groups

5.8     The project design viewed capacity building as a method to secure participatory
identification and choice of the physical assets on offer by the project. The aim was mainly
associated with the social mobilization process implemented by the NGOs that was utilized
to assess needs at the beginning of the project cycle. This is a limited way of thinking about
and engaging in capacity building activities, especially since the overall project aim is
associated with the social and economic reintegration of the conflict affected communities.

5.9      A broader framework that involved transparent and representative participation in the
asset allocation process, and one that actively engaged women, would have been more
appropriate in a conflict affected region, where the distribution of assets risks aggravating
conflict sensitivities. Such a framework was not well articulated in the project design. The
                                               10


Results Framework included the following limited indicators associated with the capacity
building aim (PAD, M&E Framework p. 23):

       “Strong CBOs, including farmer organizations, established for all project schemes.
       Active participation of farmer organizations and community based organizations
        communities in the planning and implementation of rehabilitation activities.
       Effective partnerships established among CBOs, government and non-government
        service providers.”


5.10 Owing both to the lack of measurable indicators and socially relevant data collected
during implementation, there are several evaluation questions that remain unanswered in the
implementation completion report that could not be fully validated by the IEG PPAR
mission, owing to its short duration.4 Through a desk review and field mission, the mission
sought to understand how the NGO community had established community based
organizations: were these indigenous organizations that the Bank helped to reconstitute with
facilitation and financing, or were these groups assembled for the purpose of smooth
implementation of the physical works, and in the case of the women’s groups, effective
transfer of the revolving funds?

Women’s Rural Development Societies

5.11 The project Implementation Completion and Result Report noted that the “most
notable achievement of the project - related to community capacity building -- was the
establishment of Women’s Rural Development Societies and the resultant empowerment of
women” (pg. 6). The project reported establishing 307 Women Rural Development Societies
in project focal villages. Prior to the field mission, IEG commissioned a desk based Gender
Review that was designed to feed gender related questions into the evaluative frame and the
assessment instruments. The review assessed project design, activities, and implementation
with the aim of understanding how women were integrated into or were considered by the
program, and how these considerations contributed to the achievement of results.

5.12 The IEG NEIAP project gender review found that while the project supported the
legal codification of Women’s Rural Development Societies (registration) and, through
project finance, helped to jump start livelihood activities, these groups had nevertheless been
established during the prior decade by non-governmental organizations. Therefore, rather
than establishing these societies, the field mission learned that the project had played a
significant role in both reactivating them and strengthening them by providing access to
savings and lending and connecting them other forms of donor-led assistance after the project
closed (i.e. ADB investments in the project area).

5.13 The Women’s Rural Development Societies received financing from the Livelihood
Support Activities component – a line of financing that was added to the project two years
after effectiveness to enhance social inclusion. The financing was made available through a

4
 As noted already the Field mission in the north was truncated owing to scheduling conflicts in the
capital, which limited the number of field visits that could be undertaken during the mission.
                                             11


revolving fund. It was designed to make financing available to constituencies that otherwise
would not benefit from the tank rehabilitation (landless poor, vulnerable families and
women). According to the ICR, this component provided 19,987 small loans to participating
women.

5.14 The economic analysis conducted for the Livelihood Support activities implemented
by the Women’s Rural Development Societies (see Efficiency) found that participating
households enjoyed net incremental incomes of Rs 1800 to 2050 per month as a result of
utilizing the revolving funds to make investments in water pumps, small shops and goats.
Other activities, such as milk cows, did not yield favorable results.

5.15 For those families that invested in these type of activities, this net incremental income
would have compared favorably to the official poverty line for Sri Lanka of Rs 1736 per
month per capita at the time (2005 prices). As noted in the ICR, while some of the revolving
fund recipients were likely to prosper and re-invest other endeavors would fail. The ICR
points to the limited technical support available for small enterprise development and the
limited access to affordable credit. At the time of project close, loan recovery rates were
reportedly highly variable – between 47 to 84 percent in the north and eastern districts and 13
to 54 percent in the border areas. The ICR attributes this to insufficient or uneven attention to
training for financial management and accounting.

5.16 Group interviews conducted by IEG confirmed the importance of the funds to
women’s’ livelihoods. The funds were allocated at a critical time, just prior to the resurgence
of conflict and to several waves of mass displacement. Members of the Women’s Rural
Development Societies interviewed reported that they had held on to their banking account
information throughout the duration of the war and during the multiple phases of
displacement, including while they were interred in the camps. They reported that holding
onto the account information with the hope that the small amount of funding would help
them jump start their own livelihood activities after the war’s end.

5.17 The project documentation is silent on (and the IEG mission could not ascertain) the
role of women in decision-making and choice over the type of assets that would be procured
with the revolving funds. Interviews with women’s groups conducted in the project areas
revealed that decisions were taken jointly at the household level, including decisions about
the use of the small loans provided to the women participating in the women’s societies. In
some cases it became apparent that the low loan recovery rates may have been partly
attributable to the inability of women to influence the use of the loan.

Rural Development Societies and Farmer Organizations

5.18 The project also supported the reactivation, creation, or strengthening of 360 Rural
Development Societies and 371 Farmer Organizations, both of which include only males.
IEG learned that the Rural Development Societies in the northern and eastern villages visited
had been created prior to the 1970s. The Rural Development societies collect a membership
fee that allows members to receive government contracts to perform small works, including
road maintenance, small construction activities and village cleaning.            The Rural
Development Societies retain small savings account, however their main function is to
                                            12


implement Division level works contracts, on which they have historically and continue to be
fully reliant.

5.19 The World Bank financed project provided training on financial management,
bookkeeping, and sustainability of funds, however none of the male rural development
societies interviewed engaged in group lending, unlike the women’s societies. Lack of access
to finance (from revolving funds that are targeted towards women, micro-finance, or formal
banking systems) was repeatedly cited as a constraint by the rural development societies.

5.20 The effects of this project, implemented between 2000-2006, cannot be untangled
from other interventions that have occurred since then through multiple humanitarian actors,
including the follow-on Reawakening Project implemented by the World Bank in the same
project areas. Community members remembered the “NEIAP” project however, since for
these communities it was implemented just prior to the resurgence of major violent activity,
and just before many of them were displaced from their villages.

5.21 The IEG mission found that the continuation of activities through the Reawakening
project helped to facilitate more informed decision-making at the village level, while the
NEIAP helped to set the stage. The follow-on project helped to support village development
planning through Village Development Organizations that include all three type of village
societies: farmers, rural development societies, and women’s development societies. In a
meeting with members of one Village Development Organization, IEG learned that
participation in a Village Development Organization enhances the visibility of a village in
the eyes of the Division and District level district decision-makers. It provides a platform to
articulate needs. The Village Development Societies pick up where the NIEAP project left
off: they offer revolving funds to all members of all types of societies.

5.22 The promotion of social reintegration would have required tools that supported and
assessed the integration of persons within Sri Lanka’s trilingual society, where rights are
more fully recognized and respected as a result of the project intervention. Similar tools
would have been needed to promote mutual appreciation of culture and behavior amongst the
different ethnic groups. The evidence gathered by the project suggests that there was support
for temporary cohesive behavior in groups that formed for the purpose of accessing assets,
but that Bank assistance did not go beyond that.

5.23 On economic reintegration, the evidence described above indicates that the project
directly supported conflict affected communities to jump start their agricultural production
by providing grant financing for the emergency repair of irrigation schemes, the reactivation
of rural development societies in an effort to connect them to Government works contracts,
and the supply of a small amount of finance to women through revolving funds that
supported livelihood activities. However, the evidence also points to many limitations as
discussed in the preceding section. Adequate capacity was not built within many of the
traditional farmer organizations to properly acquire, operate and maintain the schemes.
Although rural development societies were reactivated, their dependence on government
works contracts remained the same. The reintegration of women into social and economic
spheres through the reintegration of the women’s rural development societies is noteworthy,
                                             13


but while there is information on types of activities supported, there is no evidence of their
economic impacts.



6. Monitoring and Evaluation
MONITORING AND EVALUATION DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION

6.1      M&E performance is rated negligible-to-low, in line with the ICR’s assessment that
M&E was unsatisfactory. The ICR provided a frank assessment of the expectations of the
project’s M&E system, its achievements and its shortfalls. According to the PAD, the
project management unit would systematically monitor and evaluate project inputs, outputs,
effects, and impacts. The DCA included a covenant stipulating that the Borrower was to
prepare, subject to the satisfaction of the Bank, reports integrating the results of the M&E
activities before the first and second Mid-term Reviews. Agreements were reached between
the Bank and Borrower early in the implementation that an M&E-led learning system would
be indispensable for effective management.

6.2      According to the ICR, the Bank Task Team helped the PMU to develop a framework
for implementation monitoring. The PMU succeeded in operationalizing the framework in
the initial years enabling adequate recording of: (i) physical progress; (ii) financial progress;
and (iii) output performance. Overall M&E was thus satisfactory in input-output monitoring,
procurement administration and financial management monitoring, and quarterly progress
reporting to the Bank during the project implementation. However, much more attention
should have been given to monitoring the community mobilization processes, as well as
sustainability assessments and in assessing project impacts.

6.3    Towards the Credit closure, the M&E system, in particular at the PMU level, did not
work well rendering output/ outcome assessment difficult. This situation is due to: (i) the
absence of NGOs after the completion of their contracts which impeded data generation from
the communities over the final 24 months of project implementation; (ii) a greater focus on
the second project preparation and inadequate attention given to the first project; (iii) part-
time involvement of the Project Director resulted in less than expected levels of leadership,
guidance and supervision; and (iv) lack of attention to the impact assessment of project
interventions.

6.4     In the absence of a robust M&E system, data utilized to assess the outcomes and
efficiency of this project was generated by agricultural surveys conducted by the Department
of Agriculture and case studies conducted for the economic rate of return analysis of the
livelihood support activities. IEG utilized additional data, including data provided by the
PMU on the placement of the assets awarded as well as qualitative data collected from the
individual and group interviews conducted during the mission.
                                             14


7. Efficiency
7.1    Economic Rate of Return Analysis. The Project Appraisal conducted an economic
analysis of the irrigation schemes, with a focus on the incremental irrigated paddy production
that was expected in the Maha (or main) season of rice production. The PAD anticipated an
economic rate of return of 14 percent, for irrigation rehabilitation alone.

7.2      The recalculated economic rate of return – conducted at project end estimated that for
irrigation rehabilitation there was likely to be a lower rate of return than had been anticipated
- 10.5 percent - rather than the 14 percent expected. While the project achieved a greater
command area and higher productivity than anticipated, the lower than estimated rate of
return was calculated on the basis of declining forecasted world paddy prices, an increasing
economic price of farm labor as surplus labor had declined, and unexpected delays in
completing irrigation rehabilitation work that resulted in increased costs during the project.
Although not calculated at appraisal, the project at completion estimated that the rural roads
constructed could generate an economic rate of return of 12 percent, although this rate of
return appears high acknowledging the borrower’s comments that the roads were too small to
support market connectivity. Drinking water wells were estimated to generate a 19 percent
rate of return. For all investments, the rate of return should only be considered for those
assets that were effectively handed-over to communities.

7.3    Financial Rate of Return. In terms of irrigation rehabilitation, average financial net
return with the project was estimated at Rs 14,131 per ha of cropped, which was estimated to
be 60 percent higher than the without project situation. Net return to family labor was
estimated to average Rs 554 per day, which at the time exceeded the agricultural peak period
wage rates as well as off-farm wages.

7.4      The project also estimated the economic rate of return of the livelihood support
activities that were added to the project, that were mainly directed towards women
beneficiaries. The analysis included six main activities (small shops, water pumps, goats,
milk cows, draft bulls and highland cultivation) that in sum had received 70 percent of the
revolving loan disbursements in the first cycle. The assessment included 66 case studies
conducted in 41 villages in seven districts. The analysis found that small shops, water pumps
and goats were likely to have the highest rate of return, ranging from 92 – 108 percent, and
that these investments also had the shortest payback periods (2- 6 months). The rate of return
on highland cultivation and draft bulls was estimated to be 59 percent each with short pay-
back periods (of 5 - 9 months). Investments in milking cows however were found to be not
viable due to the use of local breeds with low milk yields.

7.5    The analysis also found that the water pumps, small shops and goats generated net
incremental incomes ranging from Rs 1800 to 2050 per month per beneficiary family, which
compared favorably to the official poverty line for Sri Lanka of Rs 1736 per month per capita
(2005 prices).

7.6    Overall, Efficiency is rated Substantial.
                                            15


8. Outcome
8.1     Based on Substantial rating for the Relevance of Objectives and Efficiency, but a
Modest rating for the achievement of the project objectives and the Relevance of Design, the
overall rating for this project is Moderately Unsatisfactory.



9. Risk to Development Outcomes
9.1    Risk to Development Outcomes is rated Non-Evaluable for the physical assets
constructed between 2000-2005, owing to the massive damage caused by the Tsunami of
December 2004 and the resurgence of violent conflict in the project areas between 2006-
2009.

9.2     Other concerns, expressed at the time of project close about the risk to the operations
and maintenance of the works remain valid today. As noted in the ICR, the maintenance of
rural (class D and E) roads remains a grey area nationally. National policy states that locally
elected governments, the “Pradeshiya Sabhas”, are responsible for the maintenance of these
roads, but this policy is not implemented due to fiscal and technical constraints of the
Pradeshiya Sabhas. This risk resonates with the operations and maintenance issues
highlighted in IEG’s 2014 project performance assessment of the Gemi Diriya project, a
community driven development project implemented in Sri Lanka during the same period as
the NEIAP.

9.3     There is insufficient data available to evaluate the risks to the development outcomes
of the livelihood activities supported by the revolving funds. At the time of project close,
over 300 women’s rural development societies had accessed at least a first round of savings
and lending, but repayment rates were highly variable, threatening to undermine the viability
of the revolving system established with project funds.



10. The World Bank’s Safeguards Policies:
Environmental and Social Sustainability
10.1 Environmental Effects. The project was classified as a Category B project. Since all
of the project investments were anticipated to be small in size and localized, no major or
irreversible impacts were envisioned. According to the ICR, the Project Management Unit
adopted and implemented the agreed environmental checklists for screening subprojects.
Compliance with environmental safeguards was reported by the project to be satisfactory.

10.2 Land/Involuntary Resettlement. No land acquisition or involuntary resettlement
was envisaged, as the project would focus only on the rehabilitation of the existing
infrastructure of roads and irrigation. The project did recognize that in some villages,
displaced persons were involved in cultivating the beds of dysfunctional irrigation tanks. In
                                            16


these cases, the project committed to identify these persons and compensate them for the loss
of livelihood (this was to be managed through the village development plans). This issue – of
the potential negative effects on displaced persons that were utilizing tank areas for
cultivation – does not appear in the ICR. The ICR should have included a reference to the
risk and how the risk either failed to materialize or how the risks were managed and the
project affected persons compensated


11. Bank and Borrower Performance
BANK PERFORMANCE

11.1 The Quality of Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While the project should
have been staged to first target and strengthen social capital prior to engaging in asset
rehabilitation, the project implementation arrangements were designed flexibly to respond to
urgent village level needs. Only emergency or temporary repairs were supported, a prudent
design decision in the midst of a highly unstable operating environment. While simple – the
project was oriented around the physical reconstruction of village assets – the project was
also designed to assess, monitor and be sensitive to the social situation. Satisfactory
completion of a Social Profiling exercise, for example, was a condition of disbursement of
funding for civil works. It was also designed to be participatory. Based on lessons learned
from other conflict affected situations, the project engaged local NGOs who were in tune
with the local context and the conflict affected populations and who had access to otherwise
inaccessible areas. It also based its implementation arrangements on lessons learned from
implementing a previous project in Sri Lanka’s rebel held areas which was effective in
repairing 106 small irrigation schemes (in both 'cleared" and "uncleared" areas.).

11.2 The project also integrated lessons from the Bank’s work in Haiti that showed that
building effective partnerships with beneficiaries and local authorities is an essential
component of post-project sustainability. The project design included several such features,
including a community capacity building component that supported the training of CBO
members to participate in participatory reconstruction activities. It supported a participatory
rural assessment in the villages selected for irrigation repairs. However the project design
was undermined by the lack of a transparent method for how project areas were selected.

11.3 The Project lacked a Management Information System to collate and integrate the
multiple activities being implemented by various NGOs and UN agencies and the Results
Framework was not designed to adequately capture the qualitative outcomes of the project.
Gender (and vulnerability) was also not well integrated into the project at the time of design.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

11.4 The Quality of Supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. There was a
disconnect between supervision provisions in the PAD, including the various conflict
sensitive tools that were intended to be implemented, and the actual implementation of the
project, including the manner by which supervision was conducted.
                                             17


11.5 The project was designed to be participatory. It financed a social mobilization
component that was executed by seven international and national NGOs (ICRC, CARE
International, Action Contre La Faim, FORUT, Sarvodaya, Sewa Lanka Foundation, and
Rural Development Foundation). These NGOs were in charge of conducting village level
needs assessments, village development plans and social profiles to ensure sensitivity in
future emergency programming. Project design indicated that the project’s distributional
impacts would be monitored during supervision. Specifically, the Social Profiles were
designed to identify socioeconomic conditions of the participating areas and to gauge the
impact of the project on the target groups.

11.6 A needs assessment would also be systemically carried out to identify the gaps
between the existing and desirable conditions that would enable the affected people to
reintegrate with the socioeconomic mainstream, as early as possible. The needs assessments
would focus on technical, institutional, and organizational capacities of the governmental and
non-governmental stakeholders, and the socioeconomic development and physical
infrastructure reconstruction of the region. Social and needs assessments, and social impact
monitoring of the project, were to be done through a variety of ways, including: rapid
surveys; structured consultations with the affected people; stakeholder workshops; and case
studies on specifically focused groups and sectors.

11.7 By project close, there is no evidence that the integrity of the social dynamics
associated with project design were maintained. Rather, the ICR refers to the project’s social
assessment (needs assessment, social profiles etc.) As a “social safeguards-cum-risk
management manual” that was prepared to “address proactively, potential reputational risks
related to the unauthorized occupation of irrigated land of the displaced people” (ICR. P.7).
District Social Profiles were not completed until the Mid-Term Review and, even then, these
were used mainly as a risk screening tool.

11.8 The PAD also noted that care would be taken to ensure that the allocation of
resources under the project would not contribute to altering the pre-conflict population
distribution and ethnic mix. The project would make arrangements during preparation and
implementation, to accommodate the concerns and needs of minority groups through
consultation and inclusive institutional arrangements. The PAD’s attention to ethnic issues in
Sri Lanka – including the concerns of Muslims who represent 8 percent of the population as
well as the Christian and Hindu minorities - was highly sensitive and contextually
appropriate.

11.9 There is no evidence, in the ICR, nor retrieved through the mission, that arrangements
were made during implementation to accommodate the concerns and needs of minority
groups through consultation and inclusive institutional arrangements. If there were, none of
these activities were recorded or preserved in the operational portal.

11.10 This assessment recognizes that the Bank supervised the project under very difficult
security, logistical and human resource constraints. It also recognizes that positioning the Task
Team Leader in the field did provide consistent and useful implementation support to project
management, with regard to infrastructure rehabilitation under the project. As noted in the
ICR, disbursement issues were effectively managed. But this assessment finds that the
                                            18


implementation focus was too heavily tilted towards the rehabilitation and construction of
hardware and paid scant attention to the fractured societal dynamics that, in tandem, required
support and repair. The sensitive social tools that were proposed at design appear to have
been utilized as a means to manage risk rather than to implement the project objective of
socially reintegrating the affected communities. This was a missed opportunity.

11.11 Efforts were undertaken to build the capacity of the North East Provincial Council
are recognized, especially with regard to the working relationships that were forged between
the national government and the conflict affected provinces, specifically with the welfare of
the affected communities in mind. But supervision did not adequately capture positive
project impacts, nor did it accurately report on the inability to hand over a substantial number
of assets that the project repaired. However, NGO contracts expired during implementation.
It is not clear why these NGOs were not retained to continue to measure progress by
employing the initial participatory appraisal methods. The addition of a more inclusive
component to support gender based activities was relevant, but a lack of implementation
support resulted in highly uneven outcomes (including very low repayment in the border
areas).

11.12 Quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Supervision is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. Overall, Bank Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This project required heavy
coordination between the Bank, the National Government and the Provincial and District
Level authorities representing the project area. The Ministry of Defense; the Ministry of
Finance External Resources Department and Treasury; and the Ministry of Provincial
Councils and Local Government all provided an authoring environment for this project, and
an agreed license to operate. The Ministry of Provincial Councils and Local Government
provided policy support, timely allocation of counterpart funding, and strategic guidance
from the center. The Government’s strategy of allocating aid to irrigation schemes, rather
than targeting beneficiaries based on a transparent assessment of need, undermined the
efficacy of this project however.

11.13 The project was directly overseen by the North East Provincial Council. The project
represented the first time that any donor had worked directly with the newly decentralized
authority. The North East Provincial Council supported an open and transparent dialogue
between the Bank, the Council and the LTTE, with regard to the implementation of
operations, especially in rebel controlled areas. It also allowed for effective coordination
with the District authorities. Given that the North East Provincial Council was newly
constituted and lacking financing, the project de facto supported its daily operating costs.
Throughout the life of the project, the Council gained new skills in project planning and
management, financial management and accounting, oversight, as well as opportunities to
develop new donor relations. It gained these skills, in part, by having been given full
financial and functional autonomy for the project. This devolution of authority was needed to
                                            19


ensure ownership, critical communications, and smooth passage of Bank and project staff
and the implementing agencies.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE

11.14 Implementing agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project
was administered by a Project Management Unit lodged within the Council. Overall, the
PMU provided adequate project oversight. Financial Management was rated Satisfactory
throughout the life of the project. All financial covenants were complied with and there were
no overdue audit reports. However, notwithstanding meeting these requirements, there were
some weaknesses associated with financial management and procurement, which can be
attributed to several factors: (1) the untested capacity of the newly elected Council and the
PMU; (2) the fact that this was the first project directly implemented by the Council; and (3)
the instability of the operating environment.

11.15 Financial Management. Supervision missions noted that financial management could
have benefited from better coordination between the Department of Finance of the North
East Provincial Council and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within the Project
Management Unit. This coordination would have provided more comprehensive and timely
information for project management, closer integration with the technical and financial
audits, and more timely compliance with observations and recommendations of the technical
auditors and financial management auditors throughout the life cycle of the project.

11.16 Procurement. While rated satisfactory, efforts to promote community procurement
faced several obstacles during implementation. The project pioneered the promotion of
community contracting, which accounted for 85 percent of the works contracted as compared
to 50 percent of the works as planned. While intended to enhance capacity and promote
transparency through greater contract accountability, the project management unit resorted to
slicing the sub-projects into small contractual parts – including pieces of irrigation and road
works – and awarding these pieces to community based organizations without enforcing
competitive bidding procedures and without assessing the construction management capacity
of those communities. This resulted in implementation delays and poor construction quality
in some areas. The procurement of some of the equipment such as road construction
equipment, vehicles, motor cycles, vibratory plate compactors and concrete mixers were also
delayed. These delays had a negative effect on work progress and the quality of the
compaction of earth fill on the tank bunds

11.17 In sum, Government performance is rated Satisfactory. Implementing Agency
performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, Borrower performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.



12. Lessons
12.1 Lending for land-based assets in a protracted conflict affected situation,
characterized by massive displacement, should be sequenced within a broader social
                                                20


development framework that balances individual needs with equity aims. In a conflict
affected situation, where war is associated with minority grievances, the distribution of assets
and associated impacts can either improve or threaten fragile peace. In the case of the North
Eastern Irrigated Agriculture Project, the distribution of assets (mainly repair) was highly
uneven across the project area; repair was neither based on a vulnerability index nor stratified
to ensure fair treatment across the project areas.

12.2 The term “post-conflict” should be used sparingly in the absence of a negotiated
peace agreement and World Bank projects should accordingly exercise caution in
project design. The North Eastern Irrigated Agriculture project in Sri Lanka was developed
on the back of an optimistic country assistance strategy and a temporary cease-fire. While all
signs pointed towards the need for caution, both the country assistance strategy and the
project were designed to support reconstruction activities, in line with a post-conflict and
reconstruction strategy. This exuberance masks the need to think more proactively about
societal healing, institutional development, and good governance reforms that are needed
during a country’s fragile transition from war. In the case of Sri Lanka, hindsight clearly
signifies that the level of attention that was awarded to reconstruction was premature.

12.3      There is a tension between responding to the immediate needs of conflict affected
populations and the use of a community driven development model to respond to these needs in
fluid or highly mobile environments. While the Northeast Emergency Irrigated Agriculture project
in Sri Lanka was highly responsive to the urgent needs of persons living in conflicted affected areas,
it financed physical works that were not utilized due to continued displacement and movement of the
physical population. Humanitarian aid, in this case, may have been a better choice for the delivery of
critical services, like drinking water, than a Bank project.

12.4     Participatory development is a process that should be nurtured and supported
throughout all stages of a project cycle. In the case of the North Eastern Irrigated Agriculture
Project, participatory needs assessments and capacity building activities were conducted to reduce the
risks associated with the unequal/inequitable distribution of village assets and to ensure ownership of
the assets that were being repaired. The project missed an opportunity to respond to broader human
and social capacity development needs that, in the case of the North East Irrigated Agriculture
Project, would have been aligned with the project aim of reintegrating the conflict affected
communities, both economically and socially. This would have included attention to language,
culture, and behavior and efforts to bridge societal differences through the project means.
                                                   21


References
Bebbington, A. et al. The Search for Empowerment. Social Capital as Idea and Practice at the World Bank.
        Kumarian Press Inc. 2006.

Binswanger-Mkhize, Hans P. et al. Local and Community Driven Development. Moving to Scale in Theory and
       Practice. The World Bank. 2010.

Dani, Anis and Arjan de Haan. Inclusive States. Social Policy and Structural Inequalities. The World Bank.
        2008

Gootaert, Christian and Thierry Van Bastelaer. Understanding and Measuring Social Capital. Directions in
        Development. The World Bank. 2002.

Independent Evaluation Group. The World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy Completion Report Review
        FY09-FY12. May 10, 2012.

Independent Evaluation Group. Lessons from a Decade of Village Development in Sri Lanka. Project
        Performance Assessment Report. 2014.

Mansuri, Ghazala and Vijayendra Rao. Localizing Development: Does Participation Work? The World Bank.
        Washington DC 2013.

Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Assistance Evaluation. January 23,
        2001

Uphoff, Norman and C. M. Wijayaratna. Demonstrated Benefits from Social Capital: The Productivity of
        Farmer Organizations in Gal Oya, Sri Lanka. World Development 28:11 November 2000.

Uphoff, Norman. Learning from Gal Oya: Possibilities for Participatory Development and Post-Newtonian
        Social Science Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1992.

World Bank. South Asia Sustainable Development Department. The Gemidiriya Program, Sri Lanka: Plotting
       the Community Assessment Process. Social Accountability Series. Note No. 2. August 2007.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Community Driven Development and Livelihood Improvement
       “Gemi Diriya” Project. March 5, 2004.

World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. Community Driven Development and Livelihood
       Improvement “Gemi Diriya” Project. December 31, 2010.

World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Assistance Strategy. 2003

World Bank Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report. 2006.

World Bank. Sri Lanka Country Partnership Strategy. 2012.
                                          23                                    ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
SRI LANKA - A Performance Assessment of the Northeast Emergency
Irrigated Agriculture Project (Cr. No. 3301) (P058070)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                         Appraisal          Actual or        Actual as % of
                                         estimate        current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        32.4                32.1                3.8
Loan amount                                28.0                25.5                91.1
Cofinancing                                 n/a                n/a                 n/a
Cancellation                                n/a                n/a                 n/a

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                       FY00       FY01    FY02         FY03       FY04      FY05          FY06
Appraisal estimate       0         4.3     9.9          16.4         23.2   26.9          26.9
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)           0.1        1.3     3.9          12.4         20.8   24.8          25.8
Actual as % of                    30.2    39.4          76.6         89.7   92.2          95.9
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: March 2006

Project Dates
                                                  Original                    Actual
PCD                                                                         01/15/1999
Negotiations                                                                10/18/1999
Appraisal                                                                   04/01/1999
Board approval                                                              12/02/1999
Signing
Effectiveness                                    03/01/2000                 03/16/2000
Mid-term Review                                  06/30/2003                 06/23/2003
Closing date                                     06/30/2005                 06/30/2005
ANNEX B                                                24


Annex B. List of People met
Name                                Title                               Location

Government of Sri Lanka (National) and the Project Management Unit(s)

Dr. P.B. Jayasundera                Secretary to the Treasury           Ministry of Finance & Planning




Nihal Somaweera                     Additional Secretary                Ministry of Economic Development



Mr. Priyantha Ratnayake             Director General, Head of the       Department of External Resources,
                                    Department of External Resources    Ministry of Finance & Planning


Mrs. Darshana Senanayake            Director General                    Department of Project Management
                                                                        and Monitoring, Ministry of Finance
                                                                        & Planning

Ms. Ayanthi de Silva                Additional Director General         Department of Project Management
                                                                        and Monitoring, Ministry of Finance
                                                                        & Planning

Mr. Ajith Abeysekara                Addl Director General               Department of External Resources,
                                                                        Ministry of Finance & Planning

Ms. Arunasalam Kavitha              Assistant Director                  Department of External Resources,
                                                                        Ministry of Finance & Planning

Udayangani Kumarihami               Development Officer (WB Division)   Department of External Resources,
                                                                        Ministry of Finance & Planning


Mr. S. K. Liyanage                  Project Director                    Ministry of Economic Development

Eng. A. Robert V. Peries            Additional Project Director,        Provincial Project Management Unit
                                    Reawakening Project and the
                                    Emergency Northern Recovery         Ministry of Economic Development
                                    Project
                                                                        Kachcheri, Vavuniya

PMU Staff                           Reawakening Project and the         Kachcheri, Vavuniya
                                    Emergency Northern Recovery
                                    Project

World Bank

Doina Petrescu                      Program Leader                      Africa Country Director Groups, WB
                                                                        Office: Yaoundé - Central Africa,
                                                                        World Bank

Meena Munshi                        Senior Economist                    Agriculture Department- Global
                                                                        Practice, World Bank
                                               25                                          ANNEX B

Seenithamby Manoharan         Senior Rural Development Specialist,   Agriculture Department- Global
                              TTL for the NEIAP                      Practice, World Bank


Donor and Research Partners

Mr. Anura Herath              Country Program Office                 IFAD

Ms. Beth Crawford             Representative                         FAO

Golom Abbas                   Representative                         UNHCR

Mr. Guiseppe Crocetti         Chief of Mission                       IOM

Sri Widowati                  Country Director                       ADB

Ahsan Tayyab                  Unit Head, Portfolio Management        ADB

Nelun Gunasekera              Social Development and Gender          ADB
                              Specialist

Mr. Subinay Nandy             Resident Representative                United Nations (One UN)

Ms. Lovita Ramguttee          Deputy Country Director                UNDP

Dr. Herath Manthrithilake     Head                                   Sri Lanka Development Initiative

                                                                     International Water Management
                                                                     Institute
