COTFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 200 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tamatave Port Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 200 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tamatave Port Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1970, between the MALA-
cAsY REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion
of Section 5.01 thereof (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as
so modified, being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Port Autonome de Tamatave" means the Author-
ity to be established pursuant to the provisions of the
legislation and regulations referred to in Section 8.01 (a)
of this Agreement and relating to the operation, mainte-
nance and development of the facilities of the Port of
Tamatave, and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Port Autononie
de Tamatave pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Association; and
(c) "Malagasy Francs" means francs in the currency
of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred
thousand dollars ($9,600,000).
SECTION 2.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the amount of the Credit may
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and serv-
ices required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other
than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit wthdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and


﻿5
December 15, commencing December 15, 1980 and ending
June 15, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/%)
of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause
Port Autonome de Tamiatave to carry out, the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, as of such date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, which date shall in no event be later than April 1,
1971: (i) cause Port Autonome de Tamatave to have such
organization, resources, financial structure and policies as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association
and to be responsible for the operation, maintenance and
development of facilities at the Port of Tamatave, within
boundaries to be agreed with the Association; and (ii)
transfer or cause to be transferred to Port Autonome de
Tamatave, on terms and conditions as agreed with the
Association, all facilities, equipment, machinery and other
property necessary to the operations of the Port of Tama-
tave, as well as all assets and liabilities relating thereto,
such assets being valued, for the purposes of such transfer,
as determined as the result of the valuation of fixed assets
included in Part G of the Project.


﻿0
6
(b) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary on its
part to ensure that Port Autonome de Tanatave shall at
all times after its establishment:
(i) maintain its existence and right to carry on opera-
tions;
(ii) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all licenses, consents and other rights neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business and
undertaking;
(iii) conduct its operations, manage its affairs, plan its
future investments and maintain its financial posi-
tion, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices and under the
direction of competent and experienced manage-
ment;
(iv) operate, maintain, renew and repair the facilities,
equipment, machinery and other property necessary
or useful in its operations, in accordance with
sound engineering and management practices; and
(v) carry out such obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement as shall fall within the scope of
the powers and responsibilities of Port Autonome
de Tamatave;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
(b) shall in no way limit or restrict any obligation assumed
by the Borrower under this Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to Port Autonome de Tamatave under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Port Autonome de Tamatave not later
than on June 30, 1971, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association. Such proceeds
shall be so relent at a rate of interest of three-quarters
of one per cent (3/4 of 17) per annum for the first four


﻿7
years and of seven per cent (7%) per annum thereafter
on the principal amount so relent and outstanding from
time to time, and shall be repaid to the Borrower over a
period of twenty-four years from the date of such subsid-
iary loan agreement, including therein a period of grace
of four years.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts F and G of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ or cause to be employed engineering and accounting
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.05. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
SECTION 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, (i) the goods and services (other than services
of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August
1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supple-
mentary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment or as shall be agreed between the Association and
the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of
all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿8
the Credit shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower or
Port Autonome de Tamatave to replace or repair such
goods.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or shall
cause Port Autonome de Tamatave to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and construction and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause Port
Autonome de Tamatave to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable and cause Port
Autonome de Tamatave to enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, and cause Port
Autonome de Tamatave to furnish, to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-


﻿9
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.08. (a) To carry out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall promptly appoint or cause to be ap-
pointed to the positions of Director, Chief Accountant,
Chief Traffic Manager, Chief Training Officer and Assistant
Training Officers of Port Autonomie de Tamatave, compe-
tent and experienced persons acceptable to the Association,
employed under terms and conditions which shall h "e
been approved by the Association.
(b) The training program included in Part E of the
Project shall be submitted to the Association not later than
September 30, 1971 and implementation of such program,
as agreed by the Association, shall commence not later than
April 1, 1972.
(c) Until completion of the Project, the appointment of
any new person to any of the positions referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section shall only be made with the
approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.09. The Borrower shall not cause the works
included in Part C of the Project other than the land-line
included therein to be started until arrangements for the
financing of such land-line shall have been entered into to
the satisfaction of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) Without any restriction or limitation
upon the obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make available to
Port Autonoine de Tanatave, as required for the carrying
out of the Project, an equity contribution in an amount in
Malagasy Francs equivalent to not less than five million
four hundred thousand dollars ($5,400,000).


﻿10
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no dividend shall be distributed
to the Borrower in any fiscal year in respect of the equity
contribution referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, unless
and until Port Autonome de Tanatave shall have: (i) met
its debt service requirements (as such terms is defined in
Section 4.05 of this Agreement) and (ii) contributed in
such year an amount equal to not less than 25% (or such
other percentage as shall be agreed between the Borrower,
the Association and Port Autonome de Tamatave) of its
net operating revenue (as such term is defined in Section
4.04 of this Agreement) for such year to a Port Develop-
ment Reserve Account to be established by Port Autonome
de Tamatave in order to meet part of the capital expendi-
tures of future port expansion.
SECTION 4.02. Until completion of the Project, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that capital expenditures in respect of the Port of
Tamatave other than those included in the Project, shall
only be made if the aggregate estimated cost of all such
capital expenditures in any fiscal year doeg not exceed the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).
SECTION 4.03. (a) Upon completion of the study relating
to the costing of the operations of Port Autonome de Tama-
tave, included in Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall
take all measures necessary on its part, and shall cause
Port Autonome de Tamatave, to review the report and
recommendations of such study with the Association, and,
as a result of such review, to introduce, not later than Janu-
ary 1, 1974, such changes in the tariff of port charges and
in the tariff structure of Port Autonome de Tamatave as
shall be required in order to comply with the requirements
of Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower and Port Autonone de Tamatave
shall insure that no user (whether private or public) of


﻿11
the facilities of the Port of Tamatave shall have any pri-
ority in the use of any such facility nor benefit from any
exemption from, or reduction of, port charges payable in
respect of port and related services furnished within the
Port of Tamatave or supplied by Port Autonorne de Tama-
tave.
SECTION 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower and Port Autonome de Tamatave
shall each take all steps which shall be necessary on its part
(including but not limited to adjustments of tariffs) as
shall be required to provide to Port Autonome de Tamatave
net operating revenue sufficient to ensure a rate of return
of not less than 4% in each of the fiscal years 1974 and
1975, 5%o in each of the fiscal years 1976 and 1977 and 7%
in fiscal year 1978 and in each fiscal year thereafter, on
the value of net fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the anmual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating revenue for the year in
question to the average of the value of net fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
of that year;
(ii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" means the gross value of the fixed assets
owned or operated by Port Autonome de Tamatave
as determined as a result of the valuation of fixed
assets included in Part G of the Project, revalued
from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation ac-
ceptable to the Association, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation;
(iii) the term "net operating revenue" means the differ-
ence between:
(A) gross revenues accruing from the operation of
the Port of Tamatave; and


﻿12
(B) operating expenses, including administrative
expenses, taxes other than on income or on
profit., if any, adequate maintenance and de-
preciation, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt" has the meaning set forth in
Section 4.05 of this Agree ent.
SECTION 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that Port Autonome
de Tamatave shall net incur any debt, other than for money
borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net cash gen-
eration from operations for the fiscal year immediately
preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less tiii. 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal yef on all
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of Port Autonome
de Tanatave, including debt for the service of which
Port Autonome de Tamatave is responsible, matur-
ing by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement
or other instrument providing for such debt;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from  operations"
means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to
take account of Port Autonome de Tamatave's tar-
iffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less operational expenses including admin-
istrative expenses, taxes other than on income or


﻿13
on profits, if any, and adequate maintenance, but
before deduction of provisions for depreciation and
debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which -such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtain-
able, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that Port
Autonome de Taiiatave shall, in each fiscal year commenc-
ing with fiscal year 1974, maintain the aggregate of its
ca.sh, bank deposits and overdraft facilities, and invest-
ments readily convertible into cash, at an average level at
least equal to twelve percent (12%) of its estimated oper-
ating expenditures for such fiscal year.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause Port Autonome
de Tamatave to take out and maintain insurance with re-
sponsible insurers against such risks and in such amounts
as shall bu consistent with sound business practice.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause a qualified
and competent counterpart acceptable to the Association to
be provided at all times until completion of the Project for
each of the persons provided to Port Autonome de Tamza-
tave under the technical assistance included in Part E of
the Project and appointed pursua- , to Section 3.08 of this
Agreement.


﻿14
(b) After completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause Port Autonome de Tamatave to consult the Associa-
tion prior to the appointment of any person to the positions
in Port Autonoine de Tamatave which are referred to in
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower shall: (i) cause Port Auto-
nome de Tamatave to take all measures required to reduce,
not later than upon completion of the Project, the period
of free storage of cargo in the transit sheds of Port Auto-
nome de Tamatave to not more than five days, and (ii)
enable Port Autonome de Tamatave to facilitate the re-
moval, if necessary by sale at public auction, of any cargo
from the area located within the boundaries of Port Auto-
nome de Tamatave, whenever such cargo shall have re-
mained in such area for a period exceeding thirty (30) days.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower, without requiring any ad-
ditional charge therefor from port users, shall ensur" that
Customs officers will at all times be available in the Port
of Tamatave during the working hours of Port Autonome
de Tamizatave in sufficient number to ensure that the port
operations will in no way be impeded by reason of any
lack of available Customs officers on duty.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the op-
erations and financial condition of Port Autonome de Tana-
tave and, in respect of the Project, of the department or
other agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall cause Port Autonome
de Tamatave to: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in ac-
cordance with sound auditing principles consistently ap-


﻿9
15
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than five months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of Port
Autonome de Tamatave and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of Port Autonome
de Tamatave and, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ment or other agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of
the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿16
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial coidition of Port Autonome de
Taimatave and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or other agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carry-
ing out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
and shall cause Port Autonome de Tamatave promptly to
inform the Association, of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the serv-
ice thereof, the performance by the Borrower of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement or
the performance by Port Autonomne de Tagnatave of its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or pursuant
to Section 3.02 (b) (v) of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed


﻿17
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then, at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
ation such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is spec-
ified, namely, that any legislation or regulation of the Bor-
rower relating to the establishment, powers, organization,
responsibilities or financial structure of Port Autonome de
Tamiatave shall have been amended, repealed, cuspended,
waived or shall cease to be enforced in whole or in part, so
as to have an adverse effect on the Project or on the opera-
tions of Port Autonome de Ta.natave, and such event shall
continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Terminatioa
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) legislation and regulations of the Borrower, accept-
able to the Association, establishing Port Autonome de


﻿18
Tamatave shall have been enacted and published in the
Journal Officiel de la Republique Matagasy; and
(b) the tariff of port charges payable in respect of port
and related services furnished within the Port of Tamatave
shall have been increased by twelve and one-half per cent
(12 %/o) as compared to the corresponding tariff in force
on March 31, 1970.
SECTION 8.02. The date October 30, 1970 is hereby spec-
ified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The provisions of Sections 3.02, 4.01,
4.03 (b), 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08 (b), 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12
and 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-four (24) years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower, Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible
for Finances is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Cable address:
Minifin
Tananarive


﻿19
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s/ Juis A. RAZAFIMBAHINY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoC-ATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the percen-
tage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated  Percentage of
(Expressed in   Expenditures
Category               dollar Equivalent)  to be financed
I. (a) Extension of the
Breakwater
(b) Extension of Pier C
and improvement
to Pier B
(c) Construction of                          55% of total
transit sheds and                         expenditures
warehouses                                (representing
s5,960,000    the estimated
(d) Improvements to                          foreign
stacking areas, roads                     expenditure
and railway tracks                        component)
(e) Deep-water tanker
mooring, connecting
sea-line and fire-fighting
equipment, but excluding
the land-line
II.    Cargo-handling
equipment                    900,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
III.    Technical assistance and
services of consultants    1,300,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
IV.     Unallocated                1,440,000
Total                  9,600,000


﻿21
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any member of the
Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Bor-
rower; and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any
of its political subdivisions on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
To the extent that the amount represented by the percen-
tage set forth in the third column of the table in para-
graph 1 above would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that
no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of
payments for such taxes;
provided that, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals from any Category other than Cate-
gory III of the table in paragraph 1 above, and no with-
drawals from such Category III in excess of the equivalent
of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000), shall be made
unless:
(i) Port Autonome de Tamatave shall, pursuant to the
provisions of Secion 3.02 of this Agreement, have
become responsible for the operation, maintenance


﻿22
and development of facilities at the Port of Tama-
tave, and all facilities, equipment, machinery and
other property necessary to the operations of the
Port of Tamatave shall have been transferred to
Port Autonoine de Tanatave; and
(ii) the Director of Port Autonome de Tamatave shall
have been appointed in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of Ohe Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table set out in paragraph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made; and


﻿23
(b) if the estimate of the foreign expenditure component
in respect of the aggregate of goods and services under
Category I shall increase and proceeds of the Credit are,
subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 above, available
for reallocation to Category I, the Association shall, at the
request of the Borrower, increase the stated percentage
then applicable to such Category I as required in order to
permit the financing of the full foreign expenditure compo-
nent of such goods and services.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The project is based on the Master Plan for the Port of
Tamatave and consists of the following parts:
A. The extension of the existing breakwater by about 225
meters.
B. The extension of the existing Pier C by about 245 meters
to provide a total of three berths; improvements to the
existing Pier B; the provision of three transit sheds and
two warehouses; the resurfacing of stacking areas; minor
improvements to road and railway track layout; and re-
locating an existing shed.
C. The provision of a deep-water tanker mooring at Tanio
Point, a 26-inch diameter sea-line to the shore line and a
26-inch diameter land-line, as well as of fire-fighting equip-
ment for the existing coastal tanker mooring at Pier B.
D. The provision of cargo-handling equipment.
E. The provision of technical assistance personnel for Port
Autonome de Tamatave for management and organization,
and to prepare and implement a training program in all
phases of cargo-handling.
F. The final engineering and supervision of the works in-
cluded in the Project.
G. Financial studies for Port Autonome de Tamatave, in-
cluding the valuation of the fixed assets owned or operated
by Port Antonome de Tanatave, and the costing of its
operations for purposes of tariff revision.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
In respect of the procurement of all goods and services
included in Categories I and II of the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the following procedures
shall be used:
1. Identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped
together wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding
and procurement, and such grouping of items shall be sub-
ject to the approval of the Association.
2. Prequalification of bidders, will be used for all civil
works, and 45 days will be allowed for submission of pre-
qualification documents.
3. Bidders shall not be required to be registered in the
Malagasy Republic as a condition to participate in bidding.
Should such registration or other formality be required of
a successful bidder by any law or regulation, every facility
to this end shall be furnished by the Borrower to the con-
tractor or manufacturer to avoid any possible delay.
4. Contracts will include adequate escalation clauses, as
described in paragraph 4.4 of the Guidelines, and shall indi-
cate unit prices. Tender documents shall clearly indicate
the requirements for payment of customs duties and other
taxes.
5. Prior to issuing or publishing invitations to bid, copies
of such invitations together with tender documents, will
be sent to the Association for approval; 60 days will be
allowed for submission of bids unless otherwise agreed
with the Association. Prior to the award of any contract,
the Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval
the proposed contract together with an analysis of all bids


﻿received and, when available, the consultants' comments
and recommendations thereon. If it is pioposed to award
any contract to a bidder other than the one quoting the
lowest price, the reasons for such proposal shall be stated.
6. Two conformed copies of each contract for the procure-
ment of any such goods and services shall be sent to the
Association promptly upon its execution and prior to the
submission to te Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


