RESTRICTED
Report No.   PS- lOa
This report is for offii use only by the Bank Group and specificaly authorized orpnizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MALAYSIA
May 31, 1972
Special Projects Department



CUrrency Bcuivalent%
Currecy Unit        - Malaysian Dollar (X$)
1*.00               - U*S$.357
*J,0003,000         - US$357,143
US$1.00             - M$2.80
US$1JOOOOOO         - 12,9800,000
Units of ktights and Measures
British Standard
British Standard: Metric/US Bquivalent
1 Mile (mi)              - 1.6093 kilometers (kmu)
1 foot (ft)              - 0.3048 meters (ma)
1 squar mile (Ni2)       - 2.5898 square kiloeters (ko2)
1 cubic Yard (cu yd)    - 0.764s6 cubic meters (m3)
1 acre (ac)              - 0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton)      - 1.0160 metric tons (a ton)
1 long ton (lg ton)      - 1.1200 short tons (sh ton)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
c.i.f.  -  Cost, insurance and freight
EPU     - Economic Planning Unit
G-DP    - Gross Domestic Product
aNP     - Gross National Product
IhR     - Internal Economic Return
m.p.h.  - Miles per hour
MOC     - Ministry of Comnunications
mOW     - Ministry of Works, Power and Telecommunications
p.c.u.  -  Passenger car unit
p.p.a.  -  Persons per acre
PWD     - Public Works Department
RTLB    - Road Transport Licensing Board
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE OP CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ************--.-************--  i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .............     *........ *.**..*...*....* ....    1
II.  BACKGROUND  ............. *                                        1
LII. TRANSPORT NEEDS IN THE KUALA LUMPUR -
PETALING JAYA URBAN CORRIDOR . ....  .... S9 ........... ........    3
A.  Access Requirements in the Corridor           .......          3
B.  Improvement of Road Based Public Transport       ................   5
C.  Private Vehicle Use Policies    .................. ............   6
D.  Alternative Transport Capacity Improvements       ...............    6
E.  Improvement of the Federal Highway                  .......    8
IV. THE PROJECT                                             .....      10
A.   General Description   ................    ... .10
B.  Improvement of the Federal Highway ........................  10
C.  Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies      ...............  11
D.  Road Maintenance Study and Route 1 Engineering      ............  12
E.  Design and Consulting Services .... .. .. ..  .4 ........... ... . .   12
F.  Cost Estimates ..13........................................  13
C.  Financling ...............................   15
H. Execution .......... ............ 15
I.  Project Management  ...................... -                  16
J.   Disbursements ..................................   17
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION *...........                                  18
A.  Quantified Returns ...........................   t8
B.  Unquantified Benefits and Costs .........20.................  20
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................  21
This report was prepared by Messrs. S. Hara, R. Woodford, and N. Noon
(Economists), A. Bergan (Engineer Consultant) and W. P. McCulloch (Urban
Affairs Officer) on the basis of appraisal missions in November/December
1971 and January 1972. Mr. R. Mulligan of the Transportation Projects
Department assisted the mission during the final week of appraisal.






ANNEES
1.  Urban Development Administration in the Klang Valley
2.  Urban Development and Transport in the Klang Valley
Table 1  Major Components of Klang Valley Transport Pattern, 1971
Table 2   Road Traffic in Major Corridors into Kuala Lumpur
Table 3   Motor Vehicle Registrations - West Malaysia
Table 4   Hotor Vehicle Registrations - Selangor State
Table 5   Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation
Table 6  Klang Valley Road Mileages, 1971
Table 7  Klang Valley Road Expenditures, 1966-1970, 1971-1975
Table 8   Major Rail Trackage Investments in the Klang Valley, 1966-1970
3.  Transport Characteristics in the Corridor
Table 1  Number of Vehicles per 1,000 Persons in Selected Cities
Table 2   Present Modal Split in Selected Cities
Table 3   Projected Modal Split in Selected Cities
4.  Alternative Improvement Schemes for the Federal Highway
5.   Maintenance Study and Route 1 Engineering
6.   The Highway Sector
Table 1- Malaysian Road System, 1970
Table 2   Road Construction and Improvement in West Malaysia, 1966-75
7.   Economic Analyses
Table 1  Vehicle Running Costs, Net of Tax
Table 2  Vehicle Depreciation and Interest Costs, Net of Tax
Table 3   Vehicle Labor Costs
Table 4   Personal Travel Time Costs
TABLES
1.   Population Distribution in the Klang Valley, 1957, 1970, 1980, 1985
2.   Road Traffic Growth on Major Approaches to Kuala Lumpur
3.   Estimates of Travel on the Federal Highway
4.   Detail of Construction Cost Estimates
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.  Public Works Department
2.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1.  West Malaysia Transport Network
2.  Klang Valley Region
3.   Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project
4.   Sections of Route 1 for Detailed Engineering






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Growth in the modern sectors of the Malaysian economy has been
concentrated mainly in Kuala Lumpur and the surrounding Klang Valley region
with an accompanying population growth rate of 5.5% per annum. The corridor
between Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang, served by a single through road, the
Federal Highway, has been the dominant axis of growth involving the new towns
of Petaling Jaya and Shah Alam, the expanded port, the new international air-
port, and a substantial proportion of the new industrial plants. Although
individual development schemes have been highly successful, the aggregate
effect has been a severe strain on several related urban services and fa-
cilities, particularly transport, for which corresponding improvements have
not been made.
ii.       The lack of improvement to the urban section of the Federal High-
way from the center of Kuala Lumpur through the adjacent new town of Petal-
ing Jaya now threatens the successful completion of committed and planned
development schemes as well as the maintenance of internal accessibility
essential to the efficient functioning of the growing metropolitan area.
Present and expected urban development problems arise from a lack of con-
sistent, complementary planning and timely execution of related urban fa-
cilities. To improve this situation a UNDP funded and Bank administered
Klang Valley Regional Planning and Development Study (Klang Valley Study)
is currently underway. However, additional transport capacity on the urban
section of the highway will be required even with substantially improved
policies and planning.
iii.      The project is designed as a phased response to the need for
improving access within the rapidly developing metropolitan corridor, which
extends more than six miles from the center of the capital city of Kuala
Lumpur through Petaling Jaya, and the need to integrate the two halves of
Petaling Jaya on either side of the present road. It would also facilitate
access between the metropolitan area and major development areas along the
25 mile section of the Federal Highway between Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang.
The project includes the construction of increased road capacity, along with
provisions for a more efficient use of that capacity. It gives special at-
tention to the needs of pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers in the de-
sign of the facility and places emphasis on the improvement and further de-
velopment of public transport in the accompanying studies.
iv.       The Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies included in the
project deal with a number of important issues: (a) public transport fa-
cilities and policies; (b) private vehicle use; (c) traffic engineering;
(d) improved intra-city traffic facilities; and (e) consistency between land



- il -
use and transport policies. Thus the project goes beyond its immediate
effect of dealing with a major transport constraint affecting growth in
other sectors; it leads into policy decisions and projects that should
result in better planning and distribution of resources regionally within
the Kuala Lumpur urban corridor as well as nationally. The project should
have a major impact on related institutional development.
v.        The project includes:
(a) improvement of about 6 miles of urban road from a dual
2-lane to a dual 3-lane highway, including a dual 4-lane
segment of approximately 4,000 feet, together with the
construction of five grade separated intersections;
(b) construction of three pedestrian bridges crossing the
highway and dual 12-foot wide cycle lanes parallel to
the roadway for bicycles, scooters and light motor-
cycles;
(c) execution of the projects's detailed engineering;
(d) execution of the following studies: urban transport
policy, public transport improvement and additional
transport facilities for Kuala Lumpur; detailed en-
gineering for a proposed Route 1 highway project; and
a study of the Public Works Department (PWD) mainte-
nance organization.
vi.       The total cost of the project is M$ 88.5 million (US$31.6 million),
including contingencies. Construction costs are estimated at M$ 54.6 million
(US$19.5 million) based on detailed engineering. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at H$ 44.5 million (US$16 million), or 50% of total cost,
and would be financed by the proposed Bank loan of US$16 million. Changes in
the design of the project introduced by the appraisal mission reduced esti-
mated construction costs by about one-third without seriously affecting benefits.
A single contract for construction would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. Tender documents will be completed by October
1972.
vii.      Road improvement from Kuala Lumpur through Petaling Jaya would
lessen the travel time and operating costs of vehicles, thereby reducing
user costs and capacity restraints on travel. The resulting quantified
benefits compared with the estimated costs of the project provide an in-
ternal economic return (IER) of 37%.  If personal time savings are excluded
the return would be 22%. If the increase in vehicle traffic is assumed to
be 20% less than forecast, as a sensitivity test, the IER of the project
would still be high, 29% including personal time savings and 16% excluding
this factor. These high rates of return reflect the rapid increases in
road transport cost and travel restraint occurring if the facilities are-not
improved.



- Lii -
viii.     Important non-quantifiable benefits would result from the project
works including the improvement of vehicular and pedestrian safety and the
support of urban and industrial-growth in committed development areas along
the entire 25 mile Federal Highway, particularly in Petaling Jaya. The
project i8 suitable for a Bank loan of US$16 million for a term of 25 years
including a grace period of five years.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan of US$16 mil-
lion to help finance the improvement of about 6 miles of urban highway from
Kuala Lumpur through the adjacent new town of Petaling Jaya, and to finance
studies of urban transport policy, public transport improvement and addi-
tional transport facilities for Kuala Lumpur.
1.02      Increased capacity of the Federal Highway from Kuala Lumpur through
Petaling Jaya was one of several recommendations made in a UNDP financed
study entitled "Transport Development in Malaysia", completed in 1969 by
Robert R. Nathan Associates, Inc. (U.S. consultants) with the Bank as execu-
ting agency. The Bank identified the proposed project to improve about 6
miles of the Federal Highway during an urban reconnaissance mission in 1970,
and assisted in preparing terms of reference for the feasibility study and
detailed engineering. The feasibility study, including preliminary engineer-
ing, was completed in September 1971 by U.K. consulting engineers Freeman,
Fox & Partners with British financial assistance. The Government has re-
quested Bank financing, a portion of which would be retroactive, to cover
the foreign exchange costs of the detailed engineering with tender documents
to be completed by Freeman, Fox & Partners in October 1972.
1.03      The project is the Bank's first urban transport project in Malay-
sia and should lead to a series of urban development projects. The Bank is
currently acting as executing agency for the UNDP funded Klang Valley Study
in the project area (para. 2.07), and would assist Government in preparing
terms of reference for feasibility studies of high priority projects
identified by the Klang Valley Study.
1.04      The report was prepared by Messrs. S. Hara, R. Woodford, and N.
Noon (Economists) A. Bergan (Engineering Consultant) and W. P. McCulloch
(Urban Affairs Officer) on the basis of appraisal missions in November/
December 1971 and January 1972. Mr. R. Mulligan of the Transportation
Projects Department assisted the mission during the final week of appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The region including Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang (see Maps 1 and
2) has led modern sector development in Malaysia. Exports, which now
center on Port Klang following the Government's policy of encouraging the
displacement of Singapore, accounted for 40 to 45% of GNP in recent years



- 2-
with rubber, tin, tropical woods and palm oil as the leading export prod-
ucts. In the Klang Valley transport demand foiZ exports and imports, which
are growing by 5.2% and 4.8% per annum respectively, combine with rapid
urban growth to place a heavy strain on the transport sector.
2.02      Nearly 25% of public investment in West Malaysia was devoted to
the transport sector between 1956 and 1965 (M$0.8 billion out of a total
of M$3.2 billion) of which about two-thirds was for roads and bridges.
West Malaysia today has a well developed transport infrastructure with
relatively high standard roads serving vehicular traffic which, in relation
to population, is second only to Japan among Asian countries. However,
during the period 1966-1970 regional road investments were curtailed and
deferred during the study of Transport Development in Malaysia (see Annex 6,
para. 3) which examined and reassessed investment priorities in the trans-
port sector. Partly as a result of this policy, the Federal Highway (Route
2) in the Klang Valley is becoming a constraint on development and on the
integration of the divided halves of key portions of metropolitan Kuala
Lumpur.
2.03      Unemployment, which according to official sources is 7 to 8%
nationally and could approach 9% by 1975, presents the Government with a
serious challenge. Growth in the labor force is expected to be 3.1% per
annum for the next several years compared with 2.6% during the last several
years. Employment is expected to benefit from land and agricultural devel-
opment schemes but the main burden of absorbing the increased labor force
will fall on the manufacturing and service sectors which are concentrated
in urban areas. Major urban centers (Map 1), principally on the west coast
of West Malaysia, are growing at an average rate of 4.6% annually, with
roughly one-third of this growth due to migration. The population of
metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (approximately 700,000) has been increasing at
about 5.5% per annum, attesting to the rapid growth of economic activity
in the Klang Valley region.
2.04      Recent development in the region based on metropolitan Kuala Lumpur
has been important to the expansion of modern sector activities essential for
the continued growth and diversification of the national economy. Factory
development in and around Kuala Lumpur has helped to make the Klang Valley
the principal industrial growth region of the country. The expansion of
commerce, services and government administration in Kuala Lumpur has also
made the region the national growth center for modern tertiary employment.
The continued development of these activities in Kuala Lumpur and other urban
areas of the region is supported by an extensive national road and rail trans-
port system, and by the expanding transport terminal facilities at Port Klang
and Subang International Airport, both located southwest of Kuala Lumpur.
Water and power facilities are sufficient to support additional growth and
two publicly sponsored industrial new towns southwest of Kuala Lumpur provide
facilities for future expansion. The Selangor State Development Corporation,
which is developing the new towns as well as other smaller development sites
in the region, offers particularly effective assistance to new industries.



-3-
2.05      Despite such examples of the effective implementation of individual
development schemes, many urban facilities, services and institutions in the
region are badly strained under the pressure of rapidly increasing economic
activity and population. The most serious problems are the lack of con-
sistent, complementary planning and the way in which related projects and
policies are executed by the several existing urban development institutions
(see Annex 1). These problems have been particularly evident in the growth
and expansion of metropolitan Kuala Lumpur.
2.06      Studies undertaken by the Government (para. 1.02) have made clear
the need for immediate transport access improvements to insure the efficient
functioning and orderly expansion of metropolitan Kuala Lumpur. While the
population of this large and rapidly growing urban center has nearly doubled
since 1957 (Table 1), neither improvements in facilities nor transport use
policies have kept pace with growing transport requirements. The critical
transport problem centers on the portion of the urban corridor from the
commercial center of Kuala Lumpur through the adjacent new town of Petaling
Jaya. The rapid growth of population and economic activity within the
corridor and the rapid expansion of cross commuting between the two areas
has led to a deterioration of access. It is unlikely that further extensions
of urban development within the corridor already underway or committed can
be successfully integrated into the metropolitan area without major improve-
ments in transport facilities and policies.
2.07      A UNDP financed Klang Valley Study, begun in January 1972, by U.K.
consultants, Shankland Cox and Associates, seeks to: (a) improve and coor-
dinate development planning within the region; (b) increase the Government's
effectiveness in implementing development plans; and (c) identify specific
high priority development projects for feasibility study and investment.
The study, due to be completed in March 1973, should advance the preparation
of a series of urban development projects which are expected to form the
basis for continued Bank involvement in the region.
III.  TRANSPORT NEEDS IN THE KUALA LUMPUR -
PETALING JAYA URBAN CORRIDOR
A. Access Requirements in the Corridor
3.01      Petaling Jaya began development in the early 1950's as a small
residential resettlement community adjacent to Kuala Lumpur and was later
developed as a sizeable satellite new town. The later phases were built
with both factories and housing and were intended to give the new town a
measure of self-sufficiency.



-4-
3.02      The present dual 2-lane limited access portion of the Federal
Highway linking Petaling Jaya to Kuala Lumpur was constructed in 1957 to by-
pass the new town which was then still a predominantly residential area lo-
cated on the south side of the Federal Highway, with access onto Jalan Klang
(see Map 3). The capacity of the Federal Highway has been consciously uti-
lized by development authorities as the means to greatly extend and expand
the residential and industrial development of Petaling Jaya to the north and
west without investment in additional through east-west roads. During this
period Petaling Jaya became the most important new industrial and residential
area in the Klang Valley. The population of Petaling Jaya has increased from
about 20,000 to 90,000 and its surrounding population has grown from about
25,000 to 50,000 (see Table 1). The corridor has the greatest amount of road
traffic of any approaching Kuala Lumpur (see Table 2). With no major parallel
roads through Petaling Jayw and with much of the traffic within the town
having to cross the Federal Highway, the road has become a constraint to
the completion of committed development projects and a barrier between the
two halves of Petaling Jaya on either side of the road. The urban develop-
ment intended to make effective use of the available capacity of the Federal
Highway has now overtaken that capacity. The expanding areas in the corridor
now depend heavily upon improved access to Kuala Lumpur and across Petaling
Jaya if they are to be fully integrated into the rapidly growing metropolitan
area.
3.03      Transport capacity on this urban section of the Federal Highway is
also important for the operation and expansion of most of the important new
regional development schemes in the Klang Valley outside the metropolitan
area, such as the second of the region's new towns, Shah Alam, the airport,
the expanded Port Klang (formerly Port Swettenham) and related industrial
development sites. All these have been directly linked to the Federal
Highway and depend on good road access to Kuala Lumpur (see Annex 2). Since
1963 the outer section of the Federal Highway between Petaling Jaya and Port
Klang has been a dual 2-lane limited access road like the inner portion but
with bridges and other structures built to accommodate a dual 3 or dual
4-lane roadway. The capacity limitations of the urban section of the road
through Petaling Jaya to Kuala Lumpur will undoubtedly constrain the greater
utilization of the highway between Petaling Jaya and Port Klang.
3.04      Vehicle travel on the Federal Highway from Kuala Lumpur through
Petaling Jaya has increased at an annual average rate of more than 12Z over
the past 8 years - a rate comparable to that of population growth in Petaling
Jaya. About 170,000 person and 72,000 vehicle trips per day are made on this
section of road (see Table 3).  Much of the transport movement consists of
cross commuting; about half the resident labor force of 50,000 in the Petaling
Jaya area commutes to jobs in Kuala Lumpur and nearly half of the 45,000 jobs
ln letaling JayR area are filled by commuters from Kuala Lumpur (see Annex 2).
nie inbound movement is largely the result of both an increase in new jobs
in government, commerce and finance within the city of Kuala Lumpur which is
being promoted by the government, and an increase in new middle income housing
on the periphery of the metropolitan area where relatively inexpensive resi-
dential land can be obtained. The outbound movement has resulted in part



from the inability of the government and local authorities to create suf-
ficient new low income housing in the new towns and areas of industrial ex-
pansion despite a recognition of the need to balance jobs and resident labor
force. The bulk of the industrial labor force in Petaling Jaya must now be
drawn from areas of modest older housing, much of which is in Kuala Lumpur.
A more complete analysis of movement patterns is contained in Annex 2.
3.05      In the short term, the factors contributing to a continued con-
centration of commercial development within Kuala Lumpur and to the expan-
sion of new middle income residential areas outside the city are not likely
to be altered significantly. Large areas to the northwest and south of
Petaling Jaya are already committed or under construction. Population in
these areas is projected to increase by nearly 100,000 by 1980. The present
pattern of cross commuting will undoubtedly be reinforced by these develop-
ments, as well as by the continued increase in population in both Kuala
Lumpur and the established parts of Petaling Jaya. Even on the basis of low
population growth expectations around Petaling Jaya (see Tables 1 and 3),
total intra-metropolitan and through movements on the Federal Highway be-
tween Petaling Jaya and Kuala Lumpur are expected to total about 310,000
person trips per day by 1980 -- nearly double the 1971 total. By 1985 the
areas surrounding Petaling Jaya are expected to increase by at least an addi-
tional 40,000 persons, and total person movements on the Federal Highway be-
tween Petaling Jaya and Kuala Lumpur are expected to total 400,000 trips per
day on the basis of low population growth expectations.
3.06      The Government is attempting to improve its approach to the long
term problems of continued urbanization and economic growth in Kuala Lumpur
and elsewhere in the Klang Valley region. However, the problems of urbani-
zation are not easy to deal with effectively. The need to improve the balance
between jobs and resident labor force in new towns is particularly important
in order to reduce transport investment requirements but this cannot be
achieved without added cost to other urban services. Practical measures to
be taken by the Government to improve work-residence location should be de-
fined in the Klang Valley Study but these should not be relied upon in the
short term to reduce radically the growth of transport movements, or the
need for increased transport capacity. Transport measures, such as improved
public transport services and revised private vehicle policies, could, how-
ever, have a more direct impact on the need for and use of transport facili-
ties and are considered to be integral parts of urban transport development
for the Klang Valley.
B. Improvement of Road Based Public Transport
3.07      Substantial improvements in services will be required if buses are
to provide car owners with an attractive alternative mode of transport and
meet the needs of increasing numbers of persons who must rely on public trans-
port. Although bus services and patronage are increasing in the corridor



- 6 -
and the region and the number of buses in the period 1965-1970 increased
from about 800 to 1,400, an average increase of about 11% per annum, bus
travel is not keeping pace with total person travel growth (see Annex 2).
This is despite historically low fares of about US 1.3 cents per mile which
have declined in relation to the overall cost of living and to the cost of
private transport use. Studies need to be made of the fares and services
necessary to attract passengers from private transport and to serve persons
dependent on public transport. Overall fare and policy guidelines should be
provided by the Klang Valley Study. More detailed investigation of major
operating problems which can be foreseen in increasing and improving bus serv-
ices, such as limited revenue potentials on new or improved services at exist-
ing fares, taxation levels and formula and routing limitations and terminal
deficiencies in central Kuala Lumpur, are to be included in the Urban Trans-
port Policy and Planning Studies (see paras. 4.05-4.06).
C. Private Vehicle Use Policies
3.08      Improved public transport is a necessary but in itself insufficient
means of influencing the growth in demand for private car travel. Other meas-
ures specifically aimed at reducing private vehicle travel will also be required
to divert significant numbers of car users from private vehicles. In the Klang
Valley there are good reasons for considering highly selective vehicle use
restraints. Broad measures intended to reduce the overall level of private
vehicle ownership or use, such as taxes on vehicles and fuel, do not have wide
public support and would be unworkable unless adopted nationally. In addition,
experience in other countries indicates that the restraining effect of such
policies is only temporary. Average revenues per vehicle user in the region
already exceed average road expenditure by a wide margin (see Annex 2) and
the use of most road facilities in the region could be unnecessarily penalized.
Selective restraint policies to limit the growth of private vehicle travel to
and within central Kuala Lumpur are the most obviously feasible and beneficial.
A policy to control the provision and use of parking is probably the most
practical method though detailed study will be required to assess the form and
operation of an inner-city restraint policy. Such study is included in the
Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies to be financed by the Project.
D. Alternative Transport Capacity Improvements
3.09      Three basic alternative proposals for improving mainline transport
capacity and pedestrian and vehicular cross traffic movement through Petaling
Jaya were considered:
(a) improvement of rail services;
(b) improvement of the existing Federal Highway; and
(c) improvement of other parallel roads.



-7-
3.10      Despite low fares, less than 500 passengers per day use rail
services to Petaling Jaya and many of these are railroad employees who
travel at special reduced rates. There are 16 passenger trains operating
daily, each consisting of one or two diesel-electric cars with seating for
60 persons per car. Passenger trains share the single track Port Klang line
with 18 goods trains and other shunting movements. Present frequencies of
passenger train movements are already viewed by the Malayan Railways as a
serious operating constraint for freight movements, as passenger traffic is
given priority and takes up much of the line capacity.
3.11      The rail line passes along the periphery of Petaling Jaya, about
two miles from the main employment areas. In order for rail services to be
an attractive alternative to road traffic, it would be necessary to improve
both the rail line capacity and the passenger collection and distribution
services at each end of the trip. Rail capacity constraints could be re-
duced by doubling the tracks, but passenger collection and distribution
would remain a difficult problem because stations are not well located to
serve commuters. A detailed study was not made of the costs of station re-
location work and improved passenger collection and distribution services
required in Kuala Lumpur. However, in Petaling Jaya in order to have safe
and convenient crosstown connecting bus services to complete many passenger
trips it would be necessary to construct overpasses at the Federal Highway
which alone would amount to about 45% of the cost of upgrading the Federal
Highway. Even then it is unlikely, considering the need for passengers to
change travel modes twice and the resulting delays and inconvenience, that
upgraded rail service would divert motorists from their automobiles or even
be competitive with direct bus service on the Federal Highway. The rail
proposal was not found to be as suitable as other alternatives for improving
public transport services and would still have required major construction
at the Federal Highway.
3.12      Studies have been made of the feasibility of improving Jalan Klang
and Jalan Damansara to provide more or less parallel roads which would divert
traffic from the Federal Highway (see Map 3). Both roads have narrow rights
of way and are constricted by existing development; neither is a limited
access road. In order to improve Jalan Damansara to a high standard 4-lane
road, it would be necessary to construct a tunnel over 900 feet long through
a residential area or acquire all abutting properties and construct the road
in a deep open cut. Both roads connect with the Federal Highway so improve-
ments would be needed on the western and eastern sections of that road in
conjunction with any upgrading of Jalan Klang and Damansara. As in the case
of the railroad alternative, both bypass roads skirt the edges of Petaling
Jaya and, in order to improve the cross-traffic movements, it would again
be necessary to construct overpasses at the Federal Highway.
3.13      Expansion of road capacity in the Federal Highway corridor by im-
provement of the highway on its existing alignment is consistent with the
present urban development plans by which many committed urban development



-8-
schemes inside and outside the metropolitan area have been linked to the
road on the assumption of continued good access along the existing route.
Upgrading of the Federal Highway also minimizes land acquisition and envi-
ronmental impact because rights-of-way exist for ultimate expansion of the
road along the present limited access portions of the road (the five mile
section from Intersection No. 2 to the western terminus of the project,
see Map 3).
E. Improvement of the Federal Highway
3.14      The appropriate scale of immediate improvements to be made to the
Federal Highway has been related to consultants' projections of the likely
growth of traffic on the road between 1980 and 1985, i.e. 5 to 10 years after
construction. Vehicle volumes on the Federal Highway are expected to grow
at a pace slower than in recent years (about 12% per annum) but still at a
rapid rate; about 9% per annum through 1980 and 6% per annum from 1980 to
1985. By 1980 volumes would be about 2.2 times the present level and by
1985 about 2.9 times. With 20% reduced growth in vehicle use, which has
been used as a sensitivity test (see Table 3), the corresponding increases
in volumes would be about 6% per annum through 1985 with 1980 volumes 1.7
times the present level and by 1985 about 2.4 times.
3.15      Four alternative schemes for increasing the capacity of the
Federal Highway were evaluated in a feasibility study by the consultants,
Freeman, Fox & Partners. They ranged from simple widening of the present
roadway to a plan put forward by the Government to construct a second level
roadway above the present road, extending the entire distance through Petal-
ing Jaya (see Annex 4). These investigations of facilities and expected
vehicle travel in the corridor between 1980 and 1985 indicated that neces-
sary improvements to the Federal Highway would include: (1) increased in-
tersection capacity for through, crossing and turning traffic (intersections
being the critical capacity limitation on the existing road), (2) increased
road lane capacity for through movements, (3) provision of separate cycle
lanes for the safety and convenience of the high volume of users of hicycles,
scooters and light motorcycles, (4) provision of grade separated [)edestrian
crossings of the road at the few points of pedestrian concentration v'hiucl
exist along the present limited access roadway and (5) provision of con-
venient bus stops for the limited number of bus transfers exnected to -,be
made along the roadway (as an existing limited access road, almost all 7,us
passenger loading already takes place on collector roads).
3.16      The proposed improvement is a simplified and more economical
adaptation of the consultants' recommended scheme and incorporates each of
the necessary improvement elements in a plan for staged construction which
closely conforms to near term requirements and also permits further capa-
city increases as required in the long term (see para. 4.02). The initial



-9-
stage to be carried out under the present project includes (a) construction
of grade-separated interchanges at the five most critical road crossings;
(b) construction of dual 12-foot wide cycle lanes on either side of the main
roadway and three pedestrian bridges; and (c) widening of the highway from
two to three lanes in each direction with a dual 4-lane segment of approxi-
mately 4000 feet.
3.17      The proposed improvement was considered superior to other road
alternatives for a number of reasons:
(i) the improvement permits the full utilization of existing
rights-of-way, thereby postponing the time when additional
roads will need to be constructed on costly new rights-of-
way in this rapidly developing urban corridor;
(ii) the initial improvement provides a level of traffic capacity
which is expected to be fully utilized by local traffic in
Petaling Jaya after the 1980's even if through traffic is
eventually diverted to other new roads (the desirability and
need for these are specifically being examined in the Klang
Valley Study);
(iii) the provision of a third lane in each direction will facil-
itate the operation of the intersections remaining at grade,
will provide the option of reserving a lane for express
buses and will represent the full development of the present
alignment. While deferral of sections of the third lane
would not appreciably reduce costs, such action would elimi-
nate the above advantages;
(iv) phased construction substantially reduces costs without
materially affecting benefits and still permits full
development of the existing rights-of-way at a later
stage (para. 4.02);
(v)   the project's quantifiable benefits when compared with a
minimum improvement give an extremely high internal economic
return and a very high return when compared with the next
best alternative (paras. 5.02-5.03).  The returns remain satis-
factory when time savings benefits are excluded and traffic
forecasts are substantially reduced. The project also
equals or surpasses others in its non-quantifiable aspects
(paras. 5.08-5.10).



- 10 -
IV. TEE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) improvement of about 6 miles of an urban highway from
Kuala Lumpur through the adjacent new town of Petaling
Jaya, including five grade-separated intersections,
cycle lanes, three pedestrian bridges and widening of
the highway from two to three lanes in each direction
with a duet 4-lane-segment of approximately 4000 feet;
(b)  relocation of services, including electric and-telephone
cables, water pipes and transmission towers;
(c) detailed engineering of the above road improvement;
(d) studies of additional transport problems in metropolitan
Kuala Lumpur, with particular emphasis on transport
policies and measures to improve public transport, and
a feasibility study and preliminary engineering of com-
plementary road improvements;
(e) a study of the road maintenance organization of the
Public Works Department (NWD); and
(f) detailed engineering of about 137 miles of Federal
Route 1 (see Map 4).
B. Improvement of the Federal Highway
4.02      Changes in the design of the project which were introduced by the
appraisal mission have reduced estimated construction costs by about one-
third without seriously affecting the benefits. Three interchanges origin-
ally included in the consultantst recommended scheme (Annex 4) have been
deferred while two others have been simplified. The deferred facilities are
not expected to be required until the early 1980's and the project is de-
signed to accommodate this. An expansion of bus service in the corridor and
the initiation of other measures to reduce the growth of vehicle traffic
could delay the need even further.
4.03      The present grade-level intersections create the principal bottle-
necks for traffic on the Federal Highway and make cross-town movements in
Petaling Jaya difficult and hazardous. The provision of interchanges will



- 11 -
physically separate these conflicting movements and thereby correct both
the traffic capacity and safety problems. In doing so, it will facilitate
vehicle and pedestrian movements from one side of Petaling Jaya to the other
and help restore the functional unity of this planned comrunity. The inter-
changes will accommodate all major traffic movements and will include bus
stop facilities designed to permit safe and convenient loading, unloading
and transfer of bus passengers.
4.04      The project works would incorporate continuous dual 12-foot
cycle lanes with access at each interchange over the portion of the road-
way provided with grade-separated intersections. The works would also in-
corporate three pedestrian bridges between intersections. Inclusion of
these improvements would increase the access and safety of motorcylists,
bicyclists and pedestrians as well as improve the flow of vehicular
traffic, thereby considerably broadening the user group benefiting from
the project works. Cycles constitute more than 20% of current traffic
on the Federal Highway, and they outnumber automobiles both in the Klang
Valley region and in Malaysia as a whole. Most are low powered motorcycles
and scooters which serve as primary transport for many persons, including
commuters to jobs in Petaling Jaya. Bicycles, although a declining pro-
portion of cycle traffic, are still used in significant numbers. Pedestrian
movements across the road are important to the connection of residences
and factories in the areas of the crossings and separate crossing bridges
would facilitate travel by foot as well as increasing its safety. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would ensure the
proper use of cycle lanes (para. 6.01).
C. Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies
4.05      The project would incorporate urban transport studies which would
deal with a number of important urban transport and development issues: (a)
public transport facilities and policies; (b) private vehicle use policies;
(c) traffic engineering and regulation; (d) parking facilities and regula-
tions; (e) consistency between land use and transport policies; and (f) the
probable need for improved intra-city traffic facilities. These studies, with
inputs from the UNDP Klang Valley Study now underway, would seek practical
solutions to problems which might lead to the identification of projects im-
portant for coordinated urban development. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that Government would initiate a program for periodic traffic
counts and origin/destination surveys on federal roads in urban areas (para.
6.01), necessary for ongoing urban transport analysis and planning.
4.06      The project studies would include the examination and recommenda-
tion of policies to expand and utilize public transport services, both rail
and road based. Particular emphasis would be given to short term improvements



- 12 -
to increase the efficiency and attractiveness of bus services and to alle-,
viate present problems of bus operation in metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (para.
3.07). The studies also include detailed consideration of the problems of
intra-city transport and in particular would include a feasibility study and
preliminary engineering of traffic distribution facilities from the-present
project into Kuala Lumpur, including links for efficient connection of buses
into the central area. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
Government would engage consultants for the studies under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.01).
4.07      The Klang VaLley Study, due to be completed in March 1973, will
identify specific high priority development projects for feasibility study.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the findings of the Klang
Valley Study would be rem*wed with the Bank._ Terms of reference for any
agreed feasibility stud±es, -though not financed under the Project, would be
subject to Bank approval, (para. 6.01).
D. Road Maintenance Study and Route 1 Engineering
4.08      At the request of .the Government and with concurrence from the
Transportation Projects Department, the project would also include (a) a
study of the road maintenance organization of the PWD and (b) detailed
engineering for improving about 137 miles of Route 1 (see Map 4). Al-
though highway maintenance is on the whole adequately funded, maintenance
operations could be improved (see Annex 6). It is advantageous to proceed
as early as possible with the study, and funding for this purpose has there-
fore been included in the project. Detailed engineering of Route 1 started
in February 1972. Retroactive financing of the detailed engineering in a
second highway project would involve an inordinately long finance period,
and it is therefore recommended that financing for detailed engineering of
Route 1 be included in the present project, a portion of which would be for
retroactive financing not to exceed US$400,000. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained -that Government would engage consultants for the road
maintenance study under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (see para.
6.01).
E. Design and Consulting Services
4.09      The Government appointed Freeman, Fox & Partners (U.K.) in October
1971 for detailed engineering of the project works on terms approved by the
Bank. The consultants completed detailed engineering for cost estimates in
mid May and will complete tender documents in October, 1972. Design stan-
dards used for the project are consistent with the general standards adopted
by the FWD (Annex 6, para. 19). The consultants are also responsible for
reviewing specifications and contract documents prepared by the PWD for
procurement and civil works contracts for the relocation of services (para.
4.17).



- 13 -
4.10      The Government will retain the services of Freeman, Fox & Partners
for the supervision of the main contract in order to maintain continuity of
work and avoid delays. This is acceptable to the Bank. The new contract
with Freeman, Fox & Partners would be subject to Bank approval. The Govern-
ment would also appoint consultants acceptable to the Bank for the Urban
Transport Policy and Planning Studies, the Klang Valley Project Feasibility
Studies and the Road Maintenance Study. In February 1972, the Government
appointed Vallentine, Laurie and Davies of Australia for detailed engineering
of 82 miles of Route 1 (Contract I) and a 55 mile extension of the same
Route (Contract II) in April 1972 on terms approved by the Bank.
F. Cost Estimates
4.11      The estimated cost of the project including service relocation, 1-an
acquisition, construction, detailed engineering, supervision, projcct fi-
nanced studies, detailed engineering of the Route 1 highway project and all
contingencies, is M$ 88.5 million (US$31.6 million). Total foreign ex-
change requirements of the project are estimated at M$ 44.5 million (US$16
million) or about 50% of the total cost. The estimated construction cost
of the main works, including contingencies, amounts to M$ 54.6 million
(US$19.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of M$ 35.5 million
(US$12.7 million) or about 65% of the construction cost. Details of the
cost estimates are presented below:



-14 -
L4000'                               (US 000)                  Foreign
item                             Local                      TOta]FoLoral                  g       Total   LExchangl
1.  Conatruction cost           14,700        27,300       42,000k)-    5,250         9,750       15,000        65
2. Contingencies on 1)
Physical (10%)         - 1,).70           2,730        4,200         525           975        1,500
Price (20%)                 2,940         5,460        8,400       1,050         1,90         3,000
Total construction        e        t        o        2       5       7           M            190500
3. Detailed Egineering of
Project Works                 480        2,820         3,300         172         1,007        1,179       85
4. Supervision of Project
Wirks                      1,670         1,630        3,300         597           582        1,179        49
5.  Contingencies (10%)
on 3) and 4)                  215           445          660          77           159        -- 236
6.- Service Relocation           8,528           -          8,528       3,046           -          3,046
7. Land Acquisition             10,000          _          10,000       3,571                      3,571
8. ProJect Managemert              300           -            300         107           _            107
9. xuala Lumpur  >rban Trans-
port Pollcy and Planning
Studies                       353        1,161         1,514         126           414          540       77
10. Study of Road Maintenance
Organization                  110           450          560          39           161          200       50
11. Contlngencies (20%)
on 9) and 10!                 93           322          415          33           115          11,8
12. Detailed Engineering of
Route 1
Contrmct I                1,470        1,060         2,530         525           379          904       42
Contract TI               1,350           960        2,310         482           343          825       42
13. Contingencies (10%)
on 12)                       282           202          484         101            72          173
3RA.ND TOTAL                   03 ;                                  7          31.57
1) For details see Table 4



- 15 -
4.12      The cost estimates include a 10% physical contingency to cover
possible variations in quantities during construction and a price contingency
of 20%. The inclusion of a relatively high price contingency is due to
uncertainties arising from the absence of experience with large road projects
executed by foreign contractors in Malaysia (see Annex 6, paras. 22 and 23).
G. Financing
4.13      The proposed loan would cover the total foreign exchange require-
ments of the project, amounting to M$ 44.5 million (US$16 million). The
local currency cost, amounting to M$ 44.0 million (US$15.7 million equiva-
lent), would be financed by the Government from funds specifically budgeted
for the project. Since M$ 4.2 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) of the
estimated project costs are directly attributable to Malaysian taxes, the
Government's net contribution to the project would amount to If$ 39.3 million
(about US$14.2 million equivalent). Annual budgets of PWD would include al-
locations to cover the full cost of the project.
H. Execution
4.14      The construction program involves three main activities:  (a) ac-
quisition of land and property within the right-of-way; (b) relocation of
existing utility services along the highway; and (c) construction of improve-
ments to the main highway including new intersections. Land acquisition must
be substantially completed before the award of the main civil works contract.
4.15      Acquisition of land for the project by the Federal PWD is already
well in hand on the basis of preliminary right-of-way plans prepared by the
consultants in January 1972. Land acquisition should not present any major
problems because land for widening the road has already been reserved and
more than half of the land required belongs to Selangor State. Private
property within the right-of-way will be acquired immediately by placing the
estimated cost in escrow pending a court decision on the precise amount of
compensation. The acquisition of land and property does not involve any
significant problems of resettlement. The PWD has agreed to take the neces-
sary steps to complete land acquisition by April 1973 and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that land acquisition will be completed before
the awarding of contracts (para. 6.01).
4.16      Utility services along the existing highway to be relocated in-
clude water supply, sewerage, power and telephone lines. The concerned
operating authorities have agreed that the Federal PWD would be responsible
for carrying out the relocation. Since the procurement of materials, such as
power and telephone cables and accessories, requires a lead time of about six
months, the Government has taken steps to place orders for these materials



- 16 -
in advance, which will be financed out of Government funds. The civil works
contracts for relocation and installation of the services would be awarded
to local contractors, except for a small portion more suitable for inclusion
in the main civil works contract, on the basis of competitive bidding because
the works are small and competent local contractors are available to carry
out these works. During negotiations assurances were obtained that PWD will
complete the relocation of services in such a way as not to interfere with
the work of the main contractor (para. 6.01).
4.17      The main civil works contract for improvement of the highway in-
cludes widening of the highway from two to three lanes in each direction,
construction of five grade-separated interchanges, construction of cycle
lanes and other miscellaneous works such as fencing, road markings, traffic
signals, road signs, lighting, etc. The Government has agreed with the con-
sultants' recommendation that these works should be combined into a single
contract because they are concentrated within a relatively short distance of
about 6 miles and their construction sequences depend on the progress of each
activity. In addition, a single contractor would be able to utilize his con-
struction equipment more effectively on various jobs, and problems of divided
responsibility with respect to maintenance and safety of traffic during con-
struction would be avoided. The contract would be based on unit prices and
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Local
contractors are unlikely to satisfy the pre-qualification requirements for
this contract because nearly all highways, except bridges, have been con-
structed by the FWD in the past on force account basis. However, local con-
tractors are expected to carry out some works as sub-contractors to the main
contractor.
4.18      Implementation of the project would he carried out over a four-vear
period (see Chart 2).  Construction of the main civil works would take aboutt
three years to complete with April 1976 as the target completion date. The
Urban Transport Policy Study for Kuala Lumpur would begin in September 1972
to be followed by a feasibility study and preliminary engineering of connect-
ing facilities to the Federal Highway to he completed in December 1973. De-
tailed engineering of Route 1 commenced in February 1972 under contract -ith
Vallentine, Laurie & Davies of Australia and is expected to he completed by
April 1973. The road 2Iaintenance Study is schedule.l for completion by
October 1973.
I. Project Management
4.19      Responsibility for highway administration in Malaysia is divided
between the Ministry of Communication (MOC) and the Ministry of Works and
Power (MOW). The MOC is responsible for licensing, registration and regula-
tion and the MOW for construction and maintenance of federal roads including
allocation of maintenance funds for state roads. The Federal PWD is the ex-
ecuting department of the MOW for construction and maintenance of federal



- 17 -
roads. It is headed by a Director-General with two Deputy Director-Generals
for development and engineering services. The Deputy Director-General for
development controls five operating divisions, of which one is the Roads Di-
vision which is responsible for the construction of all federal roads. The
Roads Division is administered by a Director who controls five sections:
implementation, design, planning, project coordination and federal land de-
velopment projects. The implementation section is responsible for road im-
provement, construction of minor road projects, maintenance of all federal
roads and other works (see Annex 6).
4.20      In view of the size and importance of the project and the fact that
construction of a road project through international competitive bidding is
being carried out for the first time, the FWD will establish a new unit in
the Roads Division with exclusive responsibility for implementation and man-
agement of all the works included in the project. The unit will be headed
by an experienced Project Manager who will be directly responsible to the
Director of the Roads Division for all aspects of implementation of the
project and would have adequate engineering, administrative and accounting
staff to be able to supervise the work of the consultants for the main
civil works contract and also coordinate and implement the work on land ac-
quisition and service relocations.
4.21      The Roads Division of the Federal PWD had until recently an acute
shortage of staff.  Of 68 authorized positions for engineers and technicians,
44 positions, which had not been filled, have recently been staffed. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that adequate staff would be provided
for the Project, in particular for a special liaison office for the Project
(see para. 6.01).
J. Disbursements
4.22      Loan funds would be disbursed as follows:
Main civil works contract                -  65% of payments to construc-
tion contractors.
Consultant services                      -  60% of total expenditure
(representing the estimated
foreign exchange component).
For the foreign exchange component of payments, made after October 15, 1971
and before signing of the loan agreement, for detailed engineering of the
proposed project an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,000,000 would be
financed retroactively. The Government has requested the Bank to consider
financing the foreign exchange costs of detailed engineering for the Route 1
highway, including retroactive financing not to exceed US$400,000 for expendi-
tures incurred after February 1, 1972. A schedule of estimated cumulative
quarterly loan disbursements is presented as Table 5.



- 18 -
V. tCONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The proposed improvement of the Federal Highway to a dual 3-lane
roadway with continuous cycle lanes and with grade separation of selected
intersections would directly contribute to the efficient functioning and
orderly expansion of metropolitan Kuala Lumpur and would greatly reduce the
effect of the existing road in separating the two halves of Petaling Jaya.
Comparison of quantified benefits and costs associated with these project
impacts show the improvemoent to be economically well justified. Assessment
of non-quantified benefits end costs provides additional justification for
the improvement.
-5. Quantified Returns
5.02      The internal economic return (IER) of the Federal Highway improve-
ment compared to a "without" alternative 1/ is 37% when benefits from both
vehicle operating cost savings and personal time savings as well as the bene-
fits attributable to a reduction in travel restraint are included. The re-
turn excluding personal time savings is 22Z. These high rates reflect the
rapid increases in road transport costs and in travel restraint which would
occur if the existing facility were not soon improved. If the increase in
vehicle traffic is assumed to be 20% less than the consultants' forecasts
(see para. 3.14), transport costs and travel restraint would rise less rapidly
but the IER of the project would still be high, 29Z including personal time
savings and 16% excluding this factor.
5.03      In addition to a very high IER as compared to a "without" scheme,
the selected project gives sufficiently greater quantified benefits than a
lesser improvement of road (dual two-lanes with cycle tracks and grade sepa-
rated intersections throughout) to justify the additional cost. The IER on
the additional investment cost (about US$4 million) under a number of assump-
tions is as follows:
I/   Actually involving an investment of US$0.8 million in 1973/74 and
US$7.5 million in 1979/80 for minimum essential improvements to the
roadway.



- 19 -
Internal Economic Returi (IER)
of Increased Investment in a
Dual 3-lane Road ove.r a
Dual 2-Lane Road
(X)
Traffic Growth per Consultants' Forecast:
Benefits Including Personal Time Savings             31
Benefits Excluding Personal Time Savings             21
Traffic Growth, 20% Less Than Consultants'
Forecast:
Benefits Including Personal Time Savings             24
Benefits Excluding Personal Time Savings             12
As shown the return is greater than 20% except in the case when for !cast vehi-
cle travel is reduced by 20% and personal time savings are excluded In
that case the additional investment still yields a return of 12% which is
adeouate under Malaysian conditions. It was also found that the beiefits of
a greater improvement than the one selected (dual three-lanes with .:ycle
tracks and grade separation throughout) would not justify the addit..onal in-
vestment.
5.04      A calculation was also made to determine the effect on th! proj-
ects' economic feasibility if no improvement were made in future road cap-
acity in central Kuala Lumpur. Though not consistent with present (overnment
intentions, this revised assumption gives an indication of the effe':t on the
project if related road development were greatly curtailed due to p4llicy
changes or budget limitations. The resulting IER is 27% with persouial time
savings and 13% without.
5.05      The improved travel conditions and increased capacity pro-ided by
the alternative road improvement schemes considered produce both "cust-
reducing" and "output-increasing" effects and the quantified benefit:s re-
flect both of these. The quantified benefits are attributable to oljerating
cost and time savings resulting from faster and more unifokm flow o... vehicles
between intersections and from reduced stopping, starting and idlinir of ve-
hicles at intersections with interrupted flow. These savings reduc,  the
resource and personal travel costs of road users, reduce tWp number of road
users restrained from traveling because of congestion restraint on c,emand
and increase net government tax revenues (see Annex 7, para. 6). TIe degree
of constraint associated with the various alternatives considered ii. the
analysis is summarized in Annex 3. The costs of vehicle operation used in
computing these benefits are based on an adaption to Kua-la Lumpur cctnditions
of unit costs of vehicle operation in urban areas at various average, speeds
observed in the U.K.  These costs are shown in Annex 7 and are cons:dered
to be low for congested traffic conditions. This introduces a consurvative
bias into the return calculation. The value of personal time is based on pro-
portions of average wage rates also observed in the U.K. applied to average



- 20 -
wage rates computed for the study area. Personal travel time savings for
adults during non working hours are valued at 25% of the wage rate of the
principal wage earner in the household.
5.06      Because of the uncertainty of long term urban travel forecasts
and the importance attached to the short term effects of improvement alterna-
tives, benefits for only 15 years of project life are considered though the
physical life of the improvements would be at.least 25 years.
5.07      The quantified costs of construction used in the economic analyses
are the estimated costs, excluding taxes, of construction including a IO0
contingency for variations in quantities and a 10% contingency to cover un-
certainties arising from contractor inexperience in Malaysia, supervision,
relocation of public utilities, the economic cost of land taken out of other
actual or potential uses -for the highway and the economic costs of additional
congestion caused by road works during the construction period. Future main-
tenance costs- of each alternative-, including maintenance of new road lanes
and structures, are quantified as annual costs.
B-. Unquantified Benefits and Costs
5.08      Some of the benefits attributable to the project cannot be direct-
ly quantified and are not measured in full through their effects on traffic
flows. Conversely, some identifiable costs (para. 5.10) are unquantified
in the analysis. These unquantified project impacts are seen, on balance,
to weigh much in favor of the project and should be considered an important
additional confirmation of its merit.
5.09      The traffic projections from which the quantified benefits have
been determined imply the completion of development schemes for housing and
industry which are already under way or firmly committed. They also assume
a pattern of cross traffic between the halves of Petaling Jaya divided by the
highway. If the proposed improvements are not made, both the development of
new areas and the integration of Petaling Jaya would be very much more diffi-
cult. It is doubtful whether the traffic constraint alone would be an ade-
quate measure for the difference between the two situations. In this sense
the benefits from the project may not be fully represented in the quantifica-
tions based on differences in traffic characteristics. In addition, the
provision of cycle lanes, pedestrian bridges and grade separated intersections
will reduce conflicting traffic movements and provide safer conditions for
cyclists, pedestrians and motorists. The reduction in the accident rate
which this project is designed to achieve is not quantified. Finally, the
studies associated with the project are expected to contribute to more ra-
tional use of transport facilities. No attempt at quantification of this
benefit is possible but it could be substantial.



- 21 -
5.10      The marginal environmental impacts resulting from the improvement
of the existing facility are small. Upgrading of the present Federal High-
way results in the improvement being almost entirely contained within the
right-of-wvy reserve of the existing limited access portions of the road
(5 miles from intersection 2 to the western terminus of the project, Map 3).
Additional noise and visual intrusion along the present limited accas8 por-
tion of the road would be minimal as allowance for ultimate expansion of
the present roadway was anticipated in the planned development of adjacent
properties. On a portion of the remaining Jalan Lornie section of she
road the improvement would deviate from the present alignment. However,
most of the properties affected are being acquired for the improvement and
some of those remaining are presently subject to redevelopment of a type
which should be able to minimize the impact of noise and visual intrusion.
Resource and personal costs of relocation resulting from displacemenit of
land use activities along the Jalan Lornie road section not covered by ac-
quisition and compensation payments included in project costs, are small.
Few property owners and tenants are affected and most are occupants of upper
middle income residential properties for whom adequate alternative accommo-
dation exists in metropolitan Kuala Lumpur.
VI. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.0S      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) Government will ensure the proper use of cycle lanes
(para. 4.04);
(b) Government will initiate a program for periodic traffic
counts and origin/destination surveys on federal roads in
urban areas (para. 4.05);
(c) Government will engage consultants for the Urban Transport
Policy and Planning Studies (para. 4.06) under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank;
(d) the specific projects and terms of reference for high
priority project feasibility studies identified by the
Klang Valley Study will be subject to Bank approval,
though not financed under the present Project (para.
4.07);
(e) Government will engage consultants for the study of road
maintenance operations (para. 4.08) under terms of re-
ference acceptable to the Bank;



- 22 -
(f) Government will complete land acquisition for the project
before awarding the construction contracts (para. 4.15);
(g) the PWD will undertake the relocation of services in such
a way as not to iaterfere with construction work on the
Federal Highway (para. 4.16); and
(h) Government will make available adequate staff for execution
of the Project (para. 4.21).
6.02      With the above assurances and agreements, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$16 million. The loan should be ex-
tended over 25 years, including a five-year grace period.



ANNEX 1
pae 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN 1RASPORT PROJECT
URBAN DElOFf3iT ADMINISTRATI  IN THE IANG VALLEr
1.        Urban development in the }lang Valley region is the responsibility
of a number of federal, state and local government agencies. The Selangor
State government has primary statutory responsibility for urban development
programs, but the Municipality of Kuala Lumpur and the Federal Government
also have considerable urban development powers of their own. Coordination
among the various agencies is inadequate, and urban planning efforts tend
to be fragmented. The problem of coordination is made more difficult by
the complexity of urban social problems. The fLang Valley Study has been
undertaken at the request of the Government of Malaysia to address several
of these urban planning and implementation problems.
A. Administrative Organizations for Urban Development
Federal Goverrnment
2,        The role of the Federal Government in urban planning and program
implementation is primarily advisory. The Federal organizations involved
are the Economic Planning Unit, the Town and Country Planning Department
and the relatively new Urban Development Authority.
3.        The Economic Planning Unit (EPU) which is part of the Prime
Minister's Office is in charge of development planning and investment
programming for the country. As such, the EPU is concerned with the
country's basic policy towards urbanization and with the investment
allocation established under the country's 5 year economic plans,
(currently the Second Malaysia Plan).
4.        The Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) is the first of country's
economic plans to explicitly include urban development aspects. The
plan provides general guidelines including:
(a) promotian of the growth of manufacturing and
comuercial sectors in urban areas;
(b) implementation of urban renewal,housing and
other projects for low income groups; and
(c) development of new growth centers in rural
areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The Federal Government is thus trying not only to foster orderly
development in the already established urban areas, but also to
encourage the formation of some urban development nuclei in areas now
predominately rural.
5.        The Town and Country Planning Department of the Ministry of
Research, Technologr, and Local Government provides development planning
advisory services to state and local governments. It advises on town
planning, urban renewal, and housing projects (in conjunction with the
Housing Trust, a financially autonomous part of the Ministry which
specializes in implementation of low cost housing projects) and performs
basic research. It recruits urban development personnel for state
government planning offices and, as a result, indirectly influences
planning activities of tb state governments.
6.        The Urban Dbeelopment Authority (UDA), was established in 1970
and was given a budget allocation under the Second Malaysia Plan of
M$ 100 million (US$ 35.7 million) to implement certain large-scale urban
projects in Kuala Lumpur and to coordinate the planning efforts of the
State and Municipality for the urban development of Kuala Lumpur. Part
of UDA's urban development efforts within Kuala Lumpur are to be directed
at reducing income disparities that tend to follow ethnic lines. The
development of business premises for Malays, for example, are intended to
enable Malays to become moe active in cownerce and manufacturing.
7.        The Federal Government alone is responsible for the provision of
power, education and health facilities throughout the country.. Low cost public
housing schemes are primarily financed by Federal loans to state and local
governments. All levels of government are involved in highway construction and
maintenance. The Federal Government can acquire land on a compulsory basis for
public purposes but requires the consent of the state government concerned
except within the Municipality of Kuala Lumpur where no consent of Selangor
State is necessary).
State Government
8.        The Klang Valley region is entirely contained within the State
of Selangor. Selangor State, like other state goveznments in Malaysia,
has the ultimate authority over land ownership and use within its boundaries.
It has power of compulsory land acquisition for public purposes. It can
also control the use of land by enforcing land title conditions that specify
the activities permitted on a particular lot of land, and by requiring
prior approval of any change in use of land. The Federal government must
compensate the State for any State lands it acquires for public works.
9.        The Selangor State Planning Office is responsible for land use
planning. It provides technical advice to local governments on urban plans
and asmists in the budgeting of urban projects. The present urban develop-
ment plan of the Selangor State is basically consistent with existing trends



ANNE 1
Page 3
of urbanization of the region. The plan is general (without any definite
implementation period or corresponding urban structure plans), and Wi
be revised and refined when the MINOP Rlang Valley Study is completed.
The State Planning Office bases its plan for new urban development of
more than 4,500 acres including large-scale industrial development in
Shah Alam and Port Klang areas (covering 1,000 acres and 1,700 acres
respectively) on projections that the urban area of the region will
increase from 1.1 million to 2.6 million and that the population of the
Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area will increaso from 700,000 to 2.1 million,
though the period of the expansion is not specified.
10.       The State Pablic Works Department is responsible for the
development and maintenance of major drainage works, flood control, and
state roads, and the State Water Supply Authority, a self financing
quasi-governmental bodo, is in charge of all water supply works.
Finally, the State Development Corporation is responsible for implementing
large-scale development of residential and industrial estates and new
towns.
11.       Selangor State Development Corporation was established in 1958
under the name of the Petaling Jaya Developmet Corporation. The
corporation plans and supervises the development of residential areas
and industrial sites, and receives its revenues chiefly from sale of
land   After completing the new town development of Petaling Jaya, the
corporation has focused on the residential development at Sungei Way-
Sabang (outside of Petaling Jaya) and a second new town at Shah Alam.
12.       The Selangor State Water Supply Authority is expanding its
facilities under a 1969 Bank loan of US$ 3.6 million, which will finance
the first phase of the Sumgei Langat Scheme. By the completion of the
four phase scheme, the facilities are expected to be adequate through
1985.
Local Goverrments
13.       The State administers all local governments within its boundaries,
except the Municipality of Kuala Lumpur which is administered by the
Commissioner of the Federal Capital. Town councils and town boards are
financially autonomous, but a majority of their members are appointed by
the State. Zoning and other local regulations require State approval.
Local government authority covers the provision of drainage systems, local
roads, traffic management, recreational facilities, refuse collection, and
the enforcement of zoning and building regulations. Road maintenance is
facilitated by grants from the Federal Government, while construction of
major public works is generally financed by either local revenues or loans
from the State.



ANNE 1
page 4
14.       The Municipality of Dala Lumpur, on the other hand, has
the authority to plan and implesnt urban development, and to establish
zoning and land use regulations without State approval. With financing
from FeWderal Governmnt loans. the Municipality has implemented a
substantially greater nuxber of low cost public housing projects and
sewerage projects than other local goverments in the region. Although
the Municipality has a capable urban planning department, insufficient
coordination with the State goverment on urban development plans has
often led to inconsistencies- in planning of the metropolitan area.
The [lang Valley Regional Committee formed in the early 1960's to
coordinate the regional planning efforts of the relevant federal, state
and local goverment agecies was disbanded in 1970. In its ten years,
however, the Committee drafted a comprehensive development plan for the
region which has becom& the basis for the State's development plan.
The Urban Development Authority of the Federal Government is expected to
reestablish cooperation amog the government agencies for the Kuala
Lunpur metropolitan area.
B. Probleas in Provision of Public Facilities
15.       Low cost public housing is one of the important sectors of urban
development. Although federal, state and municipal governments participate
in the public houaing effort, housing programs are too limited to meet
housing needs. In the past five years, 6,500 low cost housing units were
ccnstructed in Kuala Luqpr., and 2,000 housing units were constructed outside
the city. Within Kuala Lwumpr a limited number of housing units with reduced
rents for the first two years are made available to resettled squatters
but the magnitude of squatter resettlements far exceeds the provisions made:
a 1969 sample survey revealed that more than one-third of the population
of Kuala Lumpur or 150,000 persona are squatters.
16.       Low cost public housing (2,000 units) is insufficient even in the
new town of Petaling Jaya, developed by the precursor of the Selangor State
Development Corporation. The new town has an active industrial sector
requiring substantial nmubers of low income laborers, but the residential
areas of the new town are for the most part communities of middle and upper
middle income groups. This is partly because the Corporation has to develop
marketable land to retain financial autonomy. As a result, a large number of
the factory workers are drawn from Kuala Lwupur. Shah Alan, the second new
town in its first stage of development, may not be much more successful in
balancing residences for workers with factory development despite an
increasing awareness of the need to reduce commuting requirements.
17.       The provision of sewerage and drainage has also lagged in urban
areas. Only Kuala Lumpur has a sewerage system, and its system is available
to less than 40% of its urban population. In 1972 the UNDP is funding and
the World Health Organization is administering a feasibility study for
improved sewerage in Kuala Lumpur. Although the need for controlled drainage
is acute due to frequent heavy rainfaills, no major drainage system have
been developed except in Kuala Lumpur. Little has been done by the State
to provide for flood control.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
C. Improvement of Development Administration
18.       The rapid pace of urban growth in the region has brought
about saeleral urban development problema ariaing from the administrative
structure, resources and policies of the various authorities in charge
of developments
(a) Coordination of Urban Development: A number of
federal, state and local agencies are concerned
with urban development activities in the region,
but each agency acts with almost total
independence.
(b) Provision of Urban Facilities: Except for
financially sf supporting projecta, the
expanding need for urban facilities required
by the rapidly increasing population can only
be partially met because of limited financial
and manpower resources.
(c) Social Problems: The Government is attempting
to improve relationships among urban ethnic
groups historical;y centered on disparities of
income and economic status by rendering special
assistance to Malaya and other indigenous people.
It seems, however, that the Government is having
to proceed cautiously in pursuing these objectives.
The existence of these urban social problems add
further complication to development policy
formulation.
19.       The UNDP financed Rlang Valley Study addresses, among other
things, a number of these urban development problems. The study
particularly puts emphasis on (1) coordination of existing urban
development plans, (2) improvement of urban development administration,
and (3) identification of high priority projects. The study is expected
to be completed in March 1973 and to provide the basis for urban
development in the Xlang Valley region.
April 5, 1972






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
1KUALA LIJNPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MRBAN DELOPMENT AND ThANSPORT IN THE ILANG VALLEr
A. TUrban DeveloLment/Transport Interrelationships
1.        The present magnitude and pattern of person and goods movement
in the Klang Valley are products of the highly interrelated factors of
economic and social conditions, locational patterns, transport facilities
and transport use regulations and costa. The patterns of urban expansion
and economic activity which shape the development of regional transport
movements are examined in Section B. The principal components of
regional transport movement and their associated land use patterns are
detailed in Section C. Related transport policies and development in
the region are described in Section D.
B. Urban Development Pattern in the Region
2.        Recent location of population and economic activity in the
region has been strongly influenced by locational advantages created by
the complementary development of key transport facilities and major new
town sites strategically placed within the existing regional complex.
The expansion of Port Klang and the improvement of transport facilities
between the port and Kuala Lumpur at the focal point of the national
transport system have defined an area in between Vith the unique
advantages of ready access to West Malaysia's major foreign trade port,
its large hinterland and the nation's capital. The potential of this
major corridor of the Xlang Valley has been exploited and enhanced by the
public development of two new towns at Petaling Jaya adjacent to Kuala
Lumpur and Shah Alam near Klang. Both are astride the Federal Highway
and adjacent to the rail line connecting Kuala Lumpur and Port Slang.
3.        The new town developments have accommodated a large portion of
the region's industrial growth and a significant portion of its residential
expansion though much of the new town residential development has been
associated not with the adjacent industrial activity but with the commercial
and governmental activity which has remained in Kuala Lumpur. Other
increments of residential development associated with these cential place
activities have occurred within Kuala Lumpur itself but primarily outside
the city along other major transport corridors. Residential development
associated with the port has been relatively aelf-contained in Port Klang
and Xlang.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        In 1970 Kuala Iupur had a population of 450,000 within its
municipal boundary, abaat 40% of the region's total. Its contiguous
built-up area, including Petaling Jaya, contained another 255,000
persons and scattered settlements on its urban fringe containd a further
169,000 persns. Altogether nearly 80% Of the region' s population
resides in aWd immedately arowid Kuala Lumpar. The r.ang/Port Klang
area had a 1970 population of 113,000, 10% of the region's total and
Shah Alan, in the early stages of development, contained less than 2,000
persons.
C. Major Regical Lad Use/Transport Components
The important spatial interrelationships in the region that
give rise to transport  venmt are prosently contained within and between
the urban growth cnters of metropolitan Kuala Lumpur, Klang/Port Klang
and Shah Alan. The significant compnents are those: (a) within Kuala-
Lumpur, (b) within Petaing Jaya, (c) between Kuala Luwpur and Petaling
Jaya and (d) between  uala Lumpur and Shah Alam-Elang/Port Elang. These
components are assessed in the following paragraphs. The data m Which
the assessment is made is derived primarily from previous consultant
studies. Land use dAta is not syatematically gathered or updated.
Traffic information is available from regular Federal FWD and municipality
counts as well- as consultant surveys.  However, the periodic counts made
are not comprehensive.(the PWD does not make counts within the urban areas)
and do not include origin-destingation surveys also needed to update urban
road investment programs.
Kuala Lumpur
6.        The present urbanized area of Kuala Lumpur has extended beyond
the municipal boundary in each of the corridors served by a major road
(see Map 2). However within the municipal boundary there is sti11
considerable developable land and the gross population density is less
than 25 persons per acre (p.p.a.). Higher densities of about 60 p.p.a.
eodst to the north and southeast and localized densities in scattered
public housing estates may reach 200 p.p.a.  Gradual infillin  of
residential development has and will continue to increase overall
densities but concentrated corridors of high density residential develop-
ment have not appeared and are not anticipated.
7.        Commercial activity in Kuala Lumpur and the region has its
greatest concentration in and around the 3/4 square mile central commercial
area, a small, medium density center roughly bounded by the proposed Inner
Ring Road, Jalan Kuching and Jalan Birch. In 1970 the area had an
estimated employment of about 80,000 and somewhat lower density commercial
wedges extend outwards to the east and north. A concentration of government
administrative activities is located in adjacent areas to the west and
south of the center. Apart from this inner-city area, there are no
significant employment concentrations in Kuala Lumpur. Substantially
increased private and public office development in and around the center



ANNE 2
Page 3
is permitted in the present land use plan and is being promoted by
government development incentives. The municipality is about to
carr out a periodic review of its statutory land use plan and the
.lang Valley Study will assess these policies. In the meantime
locations well outside of central Kuala Lumpur do not appear to be
favored by developers and inner-city commercial development continues.
8.        The composition of present estimated internal transport
movement in Kuala Lumpur is summarized in Table 1 and the volume of
movement entering or leaving is summarized in Table 2. On the order
of 300,000 vehicle and 600,000 person trips per day are estimated to
be made between Kuala Lumpur locations. About 67% of vehicular
movements are estimated to be made by car, 19% by motorcycles, 3% by
bus and 11% by truck. Over one-third of passenger movements are
estimated to be made by bus. Since 1963 internal vehicle movements
are thought to have been increasing on the order of 5% per anmum,
much lower than the rate of traffic entering or leaving the city.
External movements have increased to over 230,000 vehicles per day, an
average increase of about 13% per annum over the period, though the
current rate has declined to about 10% per annum. Travel in Kuala
Lumpur is significantly influenced by these large external movements
which have grown in parallel with the city's development as the
commercial, retail and cultural center of the region and the national
capital. Within Kuala Lumpur, movementa are highly oriented towards
the central commercial area. In 1963, over 45% of internal and 25% of
external travel in Kuala Lumpur was to and from or within the area.
Subsequent development has probably maintained this pattern.
9..       The transportation pattern in Kuala Lumpur reflects the
dominance of private road transport which prevails in the region and
the policies within the city to develop and improve facilities to cater
for increased traffic aasociated with the development of the city and
through traffic movements. The details of transport policies and develop-
ment in the city are examined in paras. 34 to 38.
Petaling Jaya
10.       The present urbanized area of Petaling Jaya encompasses the new
town itself (with a population of about 90,000 persona) as well as the
developing town of Stmgei Way-Sabang directly adjacent to the northwest
(15,000) and a number of urban aettlementa to the south (30,000). Petaling
Jaya town has approached completion and gross population densities average
about 20 p.p.a. The developing areas to the northwest and south are of
somewhat higher densities. The residential areaa in Petaling Jaya contain
a wide range of houaing types though middle income housing is more heavily
represented than in Kuala Lumpur. Future lower and upper middle income
housing development around Petaling Jaya town is ezpected to continue at a
rapid pace and by 1985 population may be about 1.7 times that at present.



ANNE 2
Page 14
U1.       Apart from State and Federal Government office- buildings,
comnmercial devlopment in the area appears to be confined to that    -
required to serv  local needs.  Industrial development, however, is
significant and more than 300 factories with an estimated employment
of about 12,000 are located in Petaling Jaya town. An additional
150 acre industrial site in Sungei Way-Subang is under development.
Tbtal employment in the Petaling Jaya area is now about 44.,000.
Increased industrial and commercial dvelopment are expected and total
employmet may be about 1.7 times the present total by 1985.
12.       The composition of estimated present internal transport
movement in Petaling Jaya town and its immediately surrounding develop-
ment is summarised in Table 1. Approximately 80,000 internal vehicle
and 130,000 internal person trips are estimated to be made pe- day.
Past rates of growth are not known but the population growth of the
area from about 40,000 to 140,000 from 1957 to 1970 is indicative.
Zth the substantial completion of deelopmet within Petaling Jaya
town, the urrent growth rate of internal travel is probably about 10%
per annum. About half of existing movments cross the Federal Highway,
a total of about 50,000 vehicle movements per day. 
13.       The internal travel pattemn within the Petaling Jaya area is
greatly influenced by the high proportion of external trips to and from
Kuala Lumpur (see paras. 16 to 21). Only.about half of the resident -
labor force works in the area, the renainder commute primarily to Kuala
Lumpur. Conversely, nearly 40% of the workers employed in the area
commute from Kuala Lumpur. In total there are about 95,000 external
vehicle trips to or from the Petaling Jaya area, more than the number of
intemnal trips.
14.       By 1985 the population and employment of the Petaling Jaya area
are expected. to be about 1.7 times the present level, much of the growth
occurring outside Petaling Jaya town itself. Travel movements are still
expected to be dominated by a high proportion of external movements.
Internal and external vhicle movements were forecast by consultants
(para. 3.14) to increase by about 2.6 times with substantial growth
in private vehicle use. Internal movements across the Federal Highway
will increase accordingly while those on the Federal Highway will increase
by a much greater amount as development extends along it to the west.
15.       The transport pattern within Petaling Jaya reflects the regional
dominance of private vehicle travel in addition to the somewhat greater
affluence of somecof its residents. It also reflects the conscious
anticipation of the need for high standard road facilities to cater for
high volumes of person and goods travel. The details of road development
and transport in the Petaling Jaya area are examined in paras. 39 and 40.



ANNEX 2
Pg 5
Kuala Lumpur - Petaling Jaya
16.       Because of their physical prodimity and functional specialization,
KRala Lumpur and, Petaling Jaya are highly interdependent in terms of
exchange of persons (mostly workers end ahoppers), goods and services.
The continued growth of activities in Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya
siilar to those alrady existing indicates that future interdependence
win probably reinforce the present movement pattern between the two
urban centers.
17.   -  The large inbound commuting movemnt into Kuala Lumpur that
has developed in the Federal Highway corridor i8 also common to the other
corridors of urban expansion in the metropolitan area and is reflected
in the rapid traffic growth on all road approaches to Kuala Lumpur, (see
Table 2). It has resulted from the combined growth of new jobs in
government, commerce and finance in the inner areas of Khala Lumpur which
is being promoted by government development incentives and the concentration
of new middle income housing in areas outside the Municipality of Kuala
Lumpur where sufficiently plentiful and inexpensive residential land can be
assembled. The Municipality is about to carry out a periodic review of its
statutory land use plan and the Klang VAlley Study will assess these
policies. In the short term at least, however, the factors oontributing
to a continued concentration of commercial development in and around the
center of Kuala Lumpur and the expansion of new middle income residential
areas outside the city are not likely to be altered significantly and the
existing inbound movement pattern into and out of the city will !intensify
in all corridors of urban expansion.
18.       The outbound portion of the cross-commuting pattern in the
Federal Highway corridor has resulted in large part from the general
inability of the government and local authorities to create sufficient
new low income housing in areas of industrial expansion. The bulk of
the industrial labor force must now be drawn from areas of modest older
housing, much of which is located in Kuala Lumpur. Petaling Jaya does
have a considerable amount of low income public housing, 2,000 units, but
occupancy is not dependent on job location in the town. Obviously more
industrial worker housing could be constructed on the developing outskirts
of the town but with multiple worker households which predominate in the
region this might only aggavate the inbound comuting problem to Kuala
Lumpur. As long as the outbound conmuting volumes are less than that of
the inbound flow, transport facilities required for the inbound commuters
can be utilized with only a low marginal cost to the community. Acceptance
of such a reverse commuting pattern also allows the Government to economize
on new housing which is very capital intensive.
19.       The composition of movements to and from Kuala Lumpur and
Petaling Jaya is summarized by Table 1. The predominate flow of persons
is of Petaling Jaya residents traveling to and from Kuala Lumpur, consisting
of nearly 120,000 person trips per day; the reverse flow of Kuala Lumpur



ANNENT 2
Page 6
residents amounting to- about- 72,000 person- trips per day. About 60%
of the vehicle movemets are cars, which is equivalent to the current
norm in urban areas of the region. Motorcycles comprise nearly 25%
of vhiclular traffic, we11 above the regional norm. This results frow
the large outbound Kuala Ltuiuur to Petaling Jaya worker movement by
motorcycle, most of which in destined for the industrial: areas of
Petaling Jaya. Ban movements comprise about 2.5% of vehicle- volumes and
trucks about 12%, both near the urban norfs in the region. Despite
relatively low bus volmes, buses carry about 30% of persons traveling
between Kuala LImr and Petaling Jaya and patronage has been increasing
at about 6% per anmum. Rail movements botwen Kuala Lumpur and Petaling
Jaya are insignificant and. a total of only about 500 passengers per day
are carried to or from Kuala Lwupr on the Port glang line, less- than
half of which are boundt fbr Petaling Jaya.
20.       The relative iMportance of the Petaling Jaya movement as-
compared with other external Kuala Lumpur movements is shown in Table 2.
Total movement in the southwest corridor from Kuala Lumpur- (excluding
motorcycles) totaled 90,000 vehicles per day, nearly 40% of all external
movements fron Kuala Lupr. The Petaling Jaya-Ktiala Lumpur component
of this movemet (excludin  motorcycles) totaled 64,000 vehicles per day
or more than 25% of all external Kuala Lumr movements. It remaina the
dominant external movment to and from Kmala Lumpur. -
21.       The transport pattern between Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya
reflects the regional dominance of private vehicle travel, particularly-
the extensive use of motorcycles by industrial workers conuumting to
outer parts of the urban area. The details of related road development
and policies are examined in paras. 34 to 40.
Xhaala Lumpur - Port Rlang
22.       The regional activity patterns giving rise to through movements
between Kuala Lumpur and points beyond Petaling Jaya are associated with
the now town development of Shah Alam, Subang International Airport and
Port Rlang (see Map 2). Shah Alam is 10 miles southwest of Petaling Jaya
and is planned as the new Selangor State capital. It is to include
significant industrial development and now contains more than 10 large
scale factories. Residential development is presently insignificant.
Subang International Airport is 5 miles west of Petaling Jaya and is linked
to the Federal Highway. The airport was built in 1964 and traffic has
increased to about 1,500 passengers per day. Port Nlang is located 25 miles
southwest of Petaling Jaya and is rapidly developing. In 1970 it handled
about 2.7 million tmns of cargo.
23.      The composition of through movements in the corridor between
Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya is summarized in Table 1. Approximnately



ANNEX 2
Pae 7
12,000 vehicles and 23,000 person trips are made per day. A very
high proportion of the vehicle movements, 17% are heavy trucks, about
8% are light trucks, 58% cars and 17% motorcycles. The significant
number and high proportion of heavy trucks is associated with movements
to and from Port Klang and the developing industrial areas of Shah Alam.
Total road movement generated at Port Klang is not known but more than
5,000 persons are employed at the port and about 500 heavy trucls per
day take on or discharge cargo. At presents about 75% of import tonnage
and 60% of export tonnage at the port is carried by road and the road
proportions of both are increasing. Forecasts indicate an average
annual increase in Port Xlang throughput of about 10-15% over the
next 5 years.  The present development of port facilities to handle an
estimated 1,000 containers a week by mid-1973 has raised the possibility
of significant future container movements by road and rail between
Kuala Lwupur and Port Klang.
24.       Road traffic generated by activities at Subang International
Airport averaged about 4,000 vehicles per day in 1970, almost all of
which is destined for Kuala Lumpur and points beyond Petaling Jaya.
Provisional forecasts for passenger, air freight and air mail volumes
at Subang Airport suggest that each air traffic cooponent may approximately
double by 1975 and double again by 1980. Correspcnding increases in
road traffic to the airport can be anticipated. Continued urban expansion
in Shah Alan and other smaller developments between Khala Lumpur and
Klang will also add to future through xoveuamts of persons and light goods
in the corridor.
25.       The transport pattern between Ktiala Lumpur and Port Klang
reflects the dominance of road transport which prevails in the region
though the single track rail line carries about one-third of Port flang
tonnage as well as a significant proportion of bulk goods to industrial
plants along its right of way. The details of road and rail transport
development between Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang are examined in para. 41.
D. Transport Policies and Development in the Region
Transport in the Region
26.       The present magnitude and pattern of person and goods movement
in the region reflect economic growth and urban expansion as well as the
general absence of significant transport constraints in the form of grossly
inadequate facilities or severe restraints on the use of any available
mode. Under such circumstances transport users have demonstrated a marked
preference for road based passenger and goods transport and road movements
predominate in the region. Road transport in the region is examined in
paras. 28 to 41.



ANNE 2
Page cJ
27.       Rail in significant for Tegional as wn1 as inter-regional
bulk goods flow but its present impact on overall goods and passenger
movements in the region is quite limited. The present minor role of
rail in accmodating and influencing regional travel movements will
continue ulesa deliberate attempts to transfer goods and passengers
to rail are made. This is not likely to be the case- until such time as
lengthy camxter and other porsan movements eventually develop in the
region. Eve  in the long term, road transport will remain the dominant
means of trasport and the determinate of major travel patterns. Rail
transport in the region in eam1ined in paras. 42 to 46.e
Road Transort Developmnt
28.       The profera  oft transport users for road based travel and
the growth of populationt and economic activity has led to a rapid
increase- in the number of motor vehicles available for person and goods
movement in West Malaysia and the region (Tables 3 and 4). Taxes and
liewse fees on vehicles and tams on motor fuels are levied at
constant high rates throughout West Malaysia. on-rent estimated
combined yields of thes taxes in West Malaysia and the 1lang Valley
region are shown in Table 5. The bulk of revenues are derived from
annual,road tax fees (based on the engine size of cars, a flat rate for
motorcycles, the gross perizitted, loaded weight of trucks and permitted,
passenger capacity of buses) and the recently imposed (1970) domestic
duty levied an the ex-factory value of locally assembled vohicles (at
the rate of 25% for cars, 20% for motorcycles and 15% for trucks and
buses). Import duties are ufficiently high to eliminate significant
importation of all bat specialized motor vehicles and revenues are
correspondingly small. Present car ownership and use taxes are designed
to extract high revenue from car owners but are not intended
specifically to limit either ownership or use.  The government is
sensitive to the immediate needs of maintaining high revenue yields and
of gradually expanding the market for local car assembly plants which
have surplus capacity.
29.       Automobile registrations in the region totaled about 70,000 at
the end of 1970 and are increasing at the current rate of about 10% per
annum (Table 4). Motorcycle registrations totaled about 70,000 and are
increasing at a rate of about 15% per annum. Although current levels of
car and motorcycle ownership in the region exceed West Malaysian averages,
the rates of increase for both are comparable to those for Wbst Malaysia
and are declining. WLth a population increasing at an expected rate of
3.3% per annum, however, the number of cars and motorcycles in the region
are expected to increase to more than 160,000 f .7 % per annum) and
190,000 (6.9% per annum) respectively by 1985 unless present ownership
policies are significantly altered. At present there are about .28 cars
and .29 motorcycles per household and probably about 45% of households have
some means of motorized private transport. By 1985 there would be about
.48 cars and .57 motorcycles per household and probably about 80% of
households would have some means of motorized private transport.



AXNNEX 2
Page 9
30.       Despite the possibly high future level of private motor
vehicle ownership there will be an increasing number of households
dependent on public transport as the sole or primary transport means
available to the majority of their members. The number of households
in the region without a car or motorcycle or owning only a motorcycle
vill increase from about 150,000 to about 200,000 by 1990. Bas serrices
and patronage are increasing in the region and the number of buses in
the period 1965-1970 increased from about 800 to 1,400, an average
increase of about 11% per annum. More than 800 of the present fleet
are operated by public bus carriers and the increases in this portion
of the fleet over the period represents an investment on the order of
M$ 10 million to M$ 15 million.  The regional taxi fleet is also
increasing at a rate in excess of the Wbst Malaysian norm, about 12%
per annum. Steady expansion of bus and taxi fleets at somewhat lower
rates is expected if present transport policies continue, though revised
public transport policies could result in more rapid expansion of bus
services and fleets (see para. 3.07).
31.       Nationally, the lack of enforcement of regulations as to the
use of the only type of readily available road transport permit (that
available to vehicle owners for the exclusive haulage of their own goods)
is considered to have led to the widespread misuse and disproportionate
growth of that type of permit and of an excessive growth of the trucking
fleet as a whole. The validity of this assessment in the region had not
been examined in detail but it is clear that the need for fast and
flexible service over short distances can only be provided by truck. In
1970 there were more than 17,000 trucks registered in the region, nearly
one-third of the West Malaysian total. Their numbers are increasing at
more than 7% per annum, a rate higher than for Wbst Malaysia as a whole.
With no major changes in the operating environment of commercial road
vehicles the number of trucks could be expected to grow a slightly lower
than present rates. However, due to a 65% increase in the average size
of heavy trucks anticipated by the feasibility study consultants
(from 6i to 11 tons) this type of vehicle will increase at only about
3% per annum in the next 15 years or so. Anticipated changes in road
transport licensing procedures could also result in greater increases in
truck haulage and the vehicle fleet than would a continuation of existing
policies (see para. 50).
32.       There are more than 750 miles of public roads in the Elang Valley
region (Table 6), about half of which are federal and state roads. During
the period 1966-1970, regional road investments were curtailed and deferred
due to the Transport Development in Malaysia atudy then in progress (see
Annex 6, para. 3). Regional road development expenditures amounted to
only about M$ 30 million (Us$ 14.3 million) and maintenance about M$ 18
million (TJS$ 6.4 million) (Table 7). The bulk of road development
expenditure was made on federal and state roads, though some of this -
espenditure was made within local authority areas. Total local authority
road development expenditure is not known but the significant expenditures
were made in Kuala Lumpur (M$ 4.2 million (US$ 1.5 million) of which



ANNEX 2
M$ 3.4 million was Federal grant) and Shah Alam (M$ 4.0 million) where
25 miles of new road and two major grade separated intersections were
buiUt as a part of the new town development scheme. In the 1971-1975
period of the Second Malaysia Plan regional road development expenditures
are estimated to be about 1$ 210 million (US$ 75 million) (excluding
small amounts of local authority and private developer road investments)
and maintenance ependitures (excluding small local authority outlays)
are estimated to be about M$ 25 million (US$ 8.9 million). The large
increase in road development expenditure is associated with previously
deferred and newly planned improvements of federal roads approaching
Kuala Lusnpur, including the Federal Highway outs 2 from Kuala Lumpur
through Petaling Jaya,, Route 2 northeast, and Route 1 north and south (see Hap 3).
33.       Total motor vehicle tax revenues in the region are estimated
to have totaled about, 3,400 million over the period 1966-1970 (Table 5)
more than eight times the accountable road expenditures. Asuming no
changes in motor taxatiom rates, regional revenues might be expected to
total more than M$ 650 million (US$ 232 million) over the 1971-1975 period,
more than two and one-half times the projected road expenditure. Despite
the overall road revenue surplus in the region, the structure of existing
road user charges does not have the intent or effect of ratioming scarce
road space or causing shifts in the modal distribution of travel which
might economize on facility requirements. The need for more flexible and
responsive tranaport tas and other user charges such aa fares and parking
charges an elements of an overall policy for the region is apparent and
will be one of the major issues to be investigated in the cours of the
Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies which would be included in
the proposed project (seo paras. 3.08, 4.05-4.06).
34.       Road development in the region has been loosely related to
unofficial outline network development plans. Actual implementation
priorities within the plans depend on the availability of funds,
comparative congestion levels and the Jurisdiction of the implementing
agency. Within Kuala Lumpur, the Municipality has attempted to develop
and improve facilities consistent with the network recommended in a
1963 KuAla Lumpur Transportation Study but lack of funds have forced it
to concentrate on short term improvements to relieve current bottlenecks
which might inhibit the desired pace of investment in office and retail
space in the city. The Federal PWD has had more funds at its disposal
and has concentrated on new facilities to facilitate "through" traffic.
The actions of both agencies have served to upgrade and rationalize the
primary road pattern in Kuala Lumpur which consists of 8 major roads
radiating from the central commercial area and a partial ring road 2 miles
from the center (Map 3). Recent road improvements have not done much to
supplement or improve the few through roads that exist in the center and
circulation is achieved via circuitous routing through narrow one way
streets with closely spaced intersections. The poor road system in the
center particularly affects the operational efficiency and allowable sizes



ANNEX 2
of buses and can be ccnsidered a major obstacle to the improvement of
the quality and capacity of bus services. The infrequent crossings of
the flang and Gombak rivers are also severe traffic bottlenecks about
which little has been done.
35.       The adequacy of existing road facilities in Kuala LImpur have
not recently been measured in tem of travel speeds or delays but it is
apparent that congestion has yet to become a critical travel deterrent,
though it is beginning to pose an important operational problem for peak
period bus services. Wlthin the central commercial area, circuitous
routing and close spacing of intersections impose considerable travel time
penalties on traffic even when volumes are low and at peak periods very
considerable delays frequently occur. However, because the center is
limited in sie and the radial routes on its periphery are still not
grossly inadequate, orerall travel times to the center even in peak periods
are quite tolerable. The ability of the inner-city road system to albsorb
additional traffic resulting from increased private car use or from more
intensive devlopment is, however, limited. Present transport policies
do not adequately face this problem and elements of the proposed Urban
Transport Policy and Planring Studies are intended to remedy the situation
(see paras. 44o5-4.06).
36.       The central conmercial area contains about 6,000 parking spaces
including 2,000 on public streeta and alleys, 900 in public parking lots
and 2,300 in private parking lots. Almost all on-street spaces in the
very center have been removed as one of the few available means to increase
the capacity of the limited road system. Most private spaces are reserved
for building occupants and are used by commuters, often without direct
cost to the individual. Public spaces are available on an unlimited time
basis and hourly rates are so low (US 7 to 8 cents) that many spaces are
occupied by long teon parkers including commters and spaces are not
effectively rationed. Despite these parking supply problems in the center
it is probably still true that parking does not yet act as a significant
restraining influence on cpar use and in most cases cars are still able to
provide extremely convenient door-to-door serice. Present development
regulations require substantial  ---site parking provisions in new buildings
and seem to be intended to perpetuate the present convenient automobile
access to sources, of,trave "Iedand but developers find it difficult to
comply with the required provisions.* There is doubt as to whether the
present standards are technically, financially and environmentally feasible
for the likely pattern of new commercial development and whether the amount
of parking which could be so created would be in balance with the capacity
of the future road system. The unresolved aspects of parking provision and
use in the inner city are proposed as the subject of one phase of the
proposed Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies (para. .05).



ARM 2
37..      Ba  services within and to Kuala Lumpur are provided by- -
nim private ban companies and other services in the region are provided
by an additional five carriers.   The Sri Jaya  Transport Company wbich
operates nely afll the internal romtes of KDala Tnr and Petaling
Jaya carried about 70. million paasngers in 1970 While other companies
operating regeoal. services into Kuala Luiipr carried approximately 85
millio  pasgers. Bus travel on Sri Jaya services within Ka la Lmpur
(about two-thirds of the total) has not increased beynd 1s3 million
passegrs per annum since first reaching_that level in 1966 but there
are indcations that the volumes of Kuala Lupur passengers carried by
other companies are increasing. Baa f-rea are proportional to distance
and have remained contant at their present level of about US 1.3 cents
per mile sic  World- War II., Despite this low historic fare level all
carriers serving KuwY Lmpur have maintained profitabilitr in face of
rislng equipment, operating and-tax costs. Present termifal facilities
in Kuala Lumpu are inadequate and routing ant acesso are also in need
of considerable imprvnt.  These aspects of public transport as well
as the potentiaL role of rail public transport, are includd as one phase
of the proposed Urban. Transport Policy and Planning Studies (paras. 3.07?,
4.05-4o.06).
38.       The future development of transport in mals Lur has not
bee. recently studied and the recaondations of the 1964 Kuala- Lwmr
Transportatiom Study are. no laner fully releant. The road investment
proposals of that studyt totaled M$ 161 million (US$ 57.5 mllion) tbrough
1983. The Municipality anI Federal PWD have completed some sections of
improvement but implemntatim is well behind the recammded schedule.
However, rights-of-way reservations for the Vstem are continuing to be
protected and the pattern of improvemets envisioned by the study will
likely be the basis of future road developmnt. The Municipality does not
have an overall transport development policy related to its own land use
policies or to regional influences on the city. Neither does it have
complete control of transport developmet in the city. Considerable
emph"a   ill be given to the problems of Kuala Lumpur's transport
organization, facilities and user policies during the course of the flang
Valley Study. In the mantime it is obvious that continued concentration
of comaercial development in and around the center of Kuala Lumpur and
the expansion of new residential and industrial centers outside the city
will intensify the existing road based movement pattern-into and out of
the city. It is also clear that fuitwer traffic engineering measures and road
investments may be required and shos2A be examined along with public trans-
port and urban transport policies by detailed studies such as those proposed
in the Urban Transport Policy and Planning Studies (paras. 4.05-4.06).
39.       The road system in Petaling Jaya town is highly developed with
local roads connecting with a circular pattern of collector roads bringing
traffic to 5 intersections on the Federal Highway. The present system was
designed and implemented in conjunction with the development of the new



ANNEX 2
Page 13
town. Roads being developed in the surrounding areas to the north
connect into this system while those to the south connect with Jalan
Xlang. Apart from problems of crossing the Federal Highway, the
system in adequate for considerable increases in traffic. Similarly,
related facilities such as parking are adequate for present require-
ments and no controls presently exist. Buses operate on most of the
collector roads and some local roads and the patronage within
Petaling Jaya town is increasing. Since 1963 Sri Jaya Bus Company
has expanded its routes from 12 to 43 and the size of its bus fleet
from 86 to 185, mainly to increase its services to newly developing
areas in the Petaling Jaya area.
40.       Construction of local access and connecting roads in the
new areas outaide Petaling Jaya town will be required to accommodate
some of the future movement but facilities with the town itself are
considered generally adequate without major improvement. The Sri Jaya
Bus Company has successfully extended its services to newly developing
areas around Petaling Jaya when they are still in the early stages of
completion and the company has plans to further extend services as
development proceeds. Means are needed to develop and sustain bus
transport services to meet the demands of those without private means
of transport and to meet the requirements of an alternative transport
mode for persons who may be divertedfrom private vehicles by means of
policies and measures to be identified in the Elang Valley Study and the
proposed project studies of urban transport. Otherwise the existing
internal road system of Petaling Jaya and the improvement of the Federal
Highway should be sufficient to meet future transport requirements without
extensive transport policy revision.
41.       Continued urban expansion between Kuala Lumpur and Port Rlang
will add considerably to through person and goods movements in the
corridor. The present dual 2-lane roadway of the Federal Highway between
Petaling Jaya and Port Klang will be adequate for most of its length for
a considerable time, however, as grade separated intersections to the
airport and within Shah Alam already exist. Within Klang and Port Rlang
proposed improvements and bypass sections estimated to cost on the order
of M$ 25 million (US$ 8.9 million) have been proposed by the Federal PWD.
Aside from bulk goods movements, the parallel rail line will not be a
feasible alternative for goods and person movements for a considerable
period (see paras. 45, 46). The major concerns for transport policy in
the corridor will be development of adequate bus public transport service
and the location and design of connecting facilities to the Federal
Highway. Most of these issues will be addressed in the Klang Valley Study
and the proposed project studies.
Rail Transport Development
42.       The rail network in the region consists of the single track
western main line of the national system (extending from Singapore in the
south to Padang Besar in the north where it joins with the State railways



ANNEX 2
Page 14
of Thailand, Map 1) with short branch lines from Kuala Luur to
Port Klang (28 miles), to Apang (6 miles) (Map 2) and sub-branches
to Market Street Station, Sultan Street Station (Map 3) and to
Batic Caves (Map 2). !ich of the goods traffic in the region consists
of medium and long distance through movements to and from the ports of
Singapore and Klang. Most trains except unit trains of petroleum,
clinker, iron ore, timber and liquid chemicals are re-assembled as they
pass through Kuala Lumpur. Traffic through Kuala Lumpur is nearing
the capacity of the centrally located yard and a new outlying site on the
southern main line is under active consideration. Workings on the
Port Klang branch line are also nearing the capacity of the single track
line and scheduling is very tight. At present there are 16 daily
passenger train moaements (each train consisting of a one or two unit
diesel-electric car with a ma3mum seating of 60 or 120 persons) and
12 goods train movements along the length of the line as well as 6 limited
goods shunting movements.
43.       In the period 1966-1970, major investments in trackage of about
M$ 900,000 were made within the region (Table 8). The doubling of track
between the Port Klang and Salak South junctions (M$ 595,000) removed
an operational bottleneck for movements to and from Kuala Lumpur on the
southern mainline. The investment in sidings on the Port Klang branch
line (M$ 328,000, of which over two-thirds was at the expense of the
Selangor State Development Corporation and individual factory owners)
was to improve access to developing industrial areas and to reduce
switching bottlenecks on the line. Operations in the region have also
benefited from modernization of rolling stock and the addition of larger
capacity diesel locomotives.
44.       The present rail line between Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang
passes only on the periphery of the new towns of Petaling Jaya and
Shah Alam and the passenger stations in these urbanizing areas are not
easily accessible to residence or work locations. Only about 500
passengers per day utilize the service, many of whom are the railway's
own employees who travel to and from work at special reduced season
rates. The present frequencies of passenger trains are already viewed
as a serious operating constraint for freight movements on the single
l±ne track as they take priority in scheduling and take up much of the
practical capacity of the line. A recent Malayan Railways report has
established that the short run marginal costs of the passenger operation
on the Port Klang line are about M$ 215,000 per annum, more than four
times the annual revenue of M$ 45,000.  The management is considering a
recommendation to reduce passenger services to four peak period trips
daily and is making a similar study of the Ampang-Sultan Street passenger
service.



ANN2  2
Page 15
45.       The volume of regional freight movements by rail has tended
to decline as a reasult of the capacity limits of existing tracks, the
lack of existing sidings in industrial areas, the disinterest of new
factories locating near rail lines to camitruct sidings, the one to
two day terminal times for most movements through Kuala Lumpur and
freight rates not significantly less than those by road. Rail authorities
are concentrating their efforts to develop rail traffic In the region
on better serving the growing bulk goods and medium, to long distance
general goods movements for which they can effectively compete with road
transport. Improvement of these services on the existing line is considered
to be dependent on reduction of the passenger service frequencies. For
the near future the goods traffic appears to have a reasonable priority
for use of the Port Klang line.
46.       In the period beyond 1980 when it may become desirable to
double track the Port Klang line for goods traffic handling, the greater
use and development of the line for passenger carrying should be re-examined.
The shared use by goods and passenger traffic of any improved facility
will still be difficult but by that time the claims of passenger handling
by rail msy not be so insignificant in relation to those of goods handling.
Transport Administration in the Klang Valley
4&7.      rresent transport planning, policy making and administration
for the Klang Valley region are carried out by a number of agencies at
different administrative and government levela. Road transport is the
direct concern of the Economic Planning Unit (Epu), Ministry of Works,
Power and Telecommunications (MOW), the Ministry of Communications (MOC)
and its related regulatory body, the Road Transport Licensing Board (RTLB).
Urban and inter-urban roads and related facilities in the region are also
the concern of the Ministry of Research, Technology and Local Government
and the Executive Council of Selangor State.
48.       The EPU coordinates transport investment programs (see Annex 6).
The MOW fully controls the Roads Division of the Federal PWD which plans
and executes federal road projects. The MOC directs the Federal Road
Transport Department (which administers motor vehicle registration and
commercial licensing and provides staff support for the RLTB) and oversees
the relatively independent operations of Malayan Railways, the
Department of Civil Aviation and the Port Blang Authority. The Ministry
of Research, Technology and Local Government has ultimate control over
the administration of the Kuala Lumpur Municipality which haa its own
traffic engineering and land use planning departments. The Executive
Council of the State of Selangor exercises control over the State Pablic
Works Department (which initiates some road projects), the State
Development Corporation (which has complete development and administrative
powers in designated areas), the administration of all towns in the state
and the disposition of state lands throughout the state (see Annex 1).



ANNEX 2
49.       Following the recaomendations of the study Transport
Investment in Malaysia; planning units were established in the MOW
and MOC in order to assist in the development of a coordinated system
of transport planning end policy making. However, the units have to
date only achieved a very modest technical role as the result of
staffing and other problems and in any case the unita alone were not
seen as an effective means for coordinating the actions of the many
agencies involved in urban transport planning and policy making. The
EP iS effective in resolving major policy conflicts and project
priority differences between agencies at the implementation stage
but conmm  guidelines for policy and project initiation are often
lacking.
50.       The Governat and many of its agencies are presently
concerned about future urban transport development in the region and
are in fall support of the examination of urban transport agency
organizations and future facilities and user policies to be made
during the course of the Blang Valley Study. The Government is also
presently active in the examination of other aspects of the transport
policy which may influence transport development in the region and in
the urban areas throughout the country. In November 1970, "The Cabinet
Comuittee on Comunications" was established at the highest Cabinet
level under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister to eomine,
coordinate and control the implementation of transport and communications
policies.  The program of action includes (a) :eview of the road licensing
policy, (b) restructurtng of road user charges, and (c) measures to
encourage more participation of Malays in the road transport industry.
The Government has started implementing proposals for amending the Road
Traffic Ordinance aimed at reconstituting the Road Transport Licensing
Board, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Transport, from a purely
judiciary decision-making body to an economic and market oriented one.
Other proposed measures are simplification and reform of the route and
zonal licensing system and establishment of a national haulage corporation
and a national container road haulage company. Also, with the assistance
of two uNMO advisers, data collection systems and transport policy work
programs are being initiated within the planning units of the MDW and MOC.
51.       The separate actions of the several Federal and local agencies
influencing urban transport do not comprise a comprehensive or entirely
consistent program. The Government is rightfully concerned about future
urban transport policy in the region and considerable emphasis will be
given to urban transport agency organization as well as future facilities
and user policies during the course of the flang Valley Study and the
proposed project studies.
April 5, 1972



ANNEY 2
Page 1 r
TABLE I
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANPORT PROJECT
1AJOR COMPONENTSOF  LANG VALLE;TRANSPORT PATTERN, 1971
Kuala
Kuala       Petaling    Lumpur
Internal    Internal   Lunpur -    Jaya -        through
Kuala        Petaling    Petaeng    Kuala        Petaling
Jaya Area   Jaya=       Lumpur/    Jaya
Vehicle Trips
Car/Taxi                212,000       54U,Ooo     17,000       35,000       7,000
Mtorcycle                60,000       21,000       9,000       11U,000      2,000
10,000        1,000/      1,000       1.,000          05
Light Truck            (               3,000       3,000       3,000        1,000
Heavy Truck            ( 34,000        1000        2,000        29000       2,000
Total                316,000       80,000      32,000      $22000       12,000
Person-Trips - Total
Car/Taxi                350,000       81,000      35,000       70,000      14,000
Motorcycle               75,000       27,000      12,000/   1o00o/          3,000
Bus                     220,000       20,ooo4/    25,000-    35,000-        600
Total                64528,000        0        72, _ 021000    00       23,000
Person Trips - Work
Car/Taxi                100.000       26,000      l14,000      26,000       3,000
Motorcycle               35,000       10,000i      8,000       6,ooo/       2,000
Bus                      70,000         8,Z           ao                    3,000
Total                205,3000                  42,000  30,000            8,000
1/  1971 Kuala Lumpur traffic data estimated from 1964 transportation study data
updated by 1971 vehicle ownersbip and bus passenger data and mission estimates;
order of magnitude accuracy only.
2/  Hom  end of trip Kuala Lumpur.
5/  Home end of trip Petaling Jaya.
I/ Estimated from 1970 bus schedules and reported passenger volumes, order of
magnitude accuracy only.
5/ Less than 500.
Soumce: Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft), Freeman Fox & Partners,
September 1971; Kuala Lumpur Transportation Study, R. Crooks, Michell
& Peacock, Tippetts-Abbett-MCarthey-Stratton, 1964.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 16
TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
KUALk. LIMUR URBAN TRASPORT PROJECT
ROAD TR&UtI IN MAJOR CORRIDRS INh   KUALA LUeUR
Average Daily Traffic (Eccluding Motorcycles)
1971.
Corridor:  Road                                  Amunt    *
Northwest: Rouatw21
.r. SentiL                           47,000   39.8
Northeast.  Rou t z                              29,000    12.2
East S.    J.. axnqr/
J. Auang                             35,0O0    14.7
Southeast: Route 1                               20,000     8.4
South:     J_ Sumgoi Beni                        17,000     7.1L
Southwest: Federal. Highway/
IT Kang/
.   ansaa.                           90000    37.8
Total                                                100.0
Source: Mmicipality of Kuala Lumpur, Janmary 1972.
April 5, 1972



ANCNEX 2
Page 19
TABLE 3
MALAYSIA
KULALA LUNPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS - WEST' MALAYSIA
Year        Mbtorcycles        Cars        Taxis        Trucks      Buses       Total
1960           49,056          92,217     44,252        28,922      2,722       117,169
1961            68,296        103,P149     4,337        31,083      2,908       209,773
1962            88,207        112,843      4,671        33,645      3,125       242,491
1963           112,086        124,651      5,036        35,637      3,332       280,742
1964           142,746        139,049      5,092        38,449      3,543       328,879
1965           175,842        154.,277     5,240        41,854      3,763       380,976
1966           214.,691       169,008      5,393        44,411      3,967       437,470
1967           251,529        182,447      5,558        46,502      4,234       490,270
1968           278,836        194,712      5,685        48,301      4,636       532,170
1969           312,686        213,247      5,9557       51,375      5,347       588,610
1970           350,049        231,539      6,715        55,823      5,932       650,058
Annual Average Growth Rates, % 2er annum:
1960-65        29.1           10.8         4.3          7.7         6.9          16.5
1965-70       214.8            8.5         5.1          6.0         9.5          11.3
Source: Road Transport Department, December 1971.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 20
TABLE It
MALAYSIA
KUAL LUMMR URBAN TRNSORT PFDJECT
MDTOR V1L3E REGISTRATIONS - SELAN5OR ST 21/
Year        motorcycles        Care        Taxis        Truks       Buses       Total
1960           13,171         27,785         776         9,119        649        51,500
1961           17,360         32,059         663         9,960        703        60x745
1962           23,033         35,989         774        11,058        755        71,609
1963           29,077         409449         B88        11,655        803        83,272
1964           35.,959       46,'2           920        12,72k        834        96,979
1965          43,305          52,504         997        14p234        890       111,930
1966           52,256         58,190       1,068        15,33k        984       127,832
1967           6i,640         63,796       1s099        16,432      1.,091      14 058
1968           69,340         69,732       1,110        17,368      1,201       158,751
1969           76,78k.       .76,56        1,215        18,793      1,436       174,774
1970           86,506         82p,958      1,659        20,489      1,562       193,174
Ann&a1 Average Growth Rates-, % per annum:
1960-65        26.6           13.6         5.2          9.3         6.5           16.8
1965-70        14.8            9.6        10.7          7.6        11.9           11.5
1/ Ilang Valley Region registrations equal approximately 85% of Selangor State
registrations by Road Transport Department Survey.
Source: Road Transport Department, December 1971.
April 5, 1972



MALAYSIA
KUAIA LUfPUR URi9AN TRANSPORT PROJECT
REVENUES FROM MOTOR VEHICLE T&IATICt
(Ns WHIMogll
1967        1968        1969        1970         1971
West Malaysia
Purchase Tax                      24.6        16.9         19.8        40.9        39.3?/
Annual Registration              102.0        111.7       119.7       137.8        147.2
Other Road Fees                   11.1        11.9         13.4        21.8        22.9
Subtotal                137.7       1140.5       152.9       200.5       209.4
Gasoline-/                       104.0        109.9       113.7       317.6        142.9/
W.esel Fuel                       114.7~,     15. Y        16.52       18.0         20.03/
Total                   256.4       265.8        283.1       336.1       372.3
flang Valey Region3/              75           78          83          98          109
1/ Includes non-road use of gasoline.
2/ Treasurr estimate.
3/ Mission estimate, order of magnitude accuracy only.
Source:  Ministry of Counications, January 1972.
Treasury, December 1971.                                                                           \JlH
A-pril 5, 1972



ANNEX 2
TABLE O
NALAXSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PRJECT
I1LANOVALLEr  1DAD
Federal and State Roadsl/-                          385
Municipal and Town Roads&/
Kuala Lunwpur I4nicipality                     180
Petaling Jaya. Town                            125
Shah Alam T25
ELang Town                                     40
other urban areas                               -
Sub-Total                                   7
Total                                       5
1/ Includes short sections of federal and state roads within immicipal].
and town boaundazis not transferred to the local authority.
2/ EBccludes roads within private residential or industrial developments
not transferred to the local authority.
3/ Not availableyestimated to be small in relation to Toad mileages
accounted for.
Source:  Fedeal PWD, January 1972
Kuala Lu=pur Mmicipality, Petaling Jaya Town Board,
Selangor State Development Corporation, Klang Town
Board; November 1971.
April 5, 1972



AiREX 2
Page 23
TABLE 7
MALAYSIA
KUALA LIJMPUR UBBAW TRANPORT PsJBCT
KLANG VALLi R)AD CPBENDITURES, 1966-1970, 1971-1975
1966-1970                   1971-1975!e'
Development Maintenance-/  Development Maintenance-
Federal and State Roads           22.0           9.4           183.0        16.0
-1n cipal and Town Roads:
IKuala LuImur Municipality    4.22/        4.1            23.33/        4.3
Petaling Jaya Town             - 4/        2.9               I 4/       2.9
Shah Alan Town                4.0           .6              7.0         1.1
Klang Town                       4/                          - 4/       1.0
Other urban areas                                                        _4i
Sub-lotal                8.2                          30.3         9.3
Total                   30.2         17.9           213.3         25.3
_J' Estimated.
2/ Local authority maintenance expenditure estimated to equal federal road
maintenance grant ~i M$4i,600/mile of road; actual expenditure may not
equal the grant amount.
3/ Includes federal grant of MI 3.4 million during 1966-1970, M$ 6.6 million
1971-1975.
4/ N4ot available, estimated to be small in relation to total.
Source:  Federal PWD, January 1972
Kuala Lumpur Municipality, Petaling Jaya Town Board,
Selangor State Development Corporation, Klang Town Board;
NTovember 1971.
Ppril 5, 1972



ANNIX 2
PaVge 24
TABLE 6
MALAYSIA
KEALA- LUMUR URBAN TRANSPORT. PPOJCT
Mk.JXR RAIL TRACKs INVSTMES; IN TL MUAN  VALIE, 1966-1970
Investment    Investment
Wy          cy Others,
Malayan        Public or
Type of Tnprovement                Railways       Private          Total
Double trackcing of ia  line,
Port Klang Junction to Salak
South Junction, (3 miles
approximately)      :            595,0                          59s,000
Two Service Sidings, Port
Klang Line                        92,000        124, 000-       216,000
Three Private Sidings, Port
ilang Line    --                                12,000          112,000
Total                        687, 000                        923,000
1/ Selangor State Development Corporation.
Source: Malayan R-aPlwass, December 1971.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1FLANSPORT CEARACTERISTICS IN THE CORRIDOR
1.        In this annex, the consultant projections of travel demand
in the corridor from Kuala Lumpur through Petaling Jaya are compared
with figures from other selected cities and their method of relating
these forecasts to road capacity of alternative improvements of the
Federal Highway is explained.
2.        The following cities were selected for comparison on the
basis of population, per capita income level and data availability.
Per Capita      Population
Data Base                        Income        (In Millions
Year           city           (In US$)        of Persons)
1970        Kuala Lumpur         660              0.7
1990        Kuala Luwpur      1,1                 1.3
1970        Caracas           1,600               2.1
1969        Singapore            800              2.1'
1970        Bangkok              524              3.5
1969        Bogota              450               2.5
1970        Istanbul             429              3.0
a/  Estimated
A. Vehicle Ownership
3.        Numbers of vehicles per 1,000 persons are compared in Table 1.
Present ownership of private vehicles in Kuala Lumpur is similar to that
in Singapore and Bangkok. In particular, a high popularity of motorcycles
is conspicuous in these cities. Both Bogota and Istanbul automobile
ownership figures are consistent with their lower economic level while the
future projection of Kuala Lumpur automobile ownership approaches
present levels in Caracas at slightly lower incomn level. Higher ownership
rates of motorcycles than automobiles is a unique characteristic of Kuala
Lumpur.
B. Modal Split
4.        The present modal split in the Kuala Lumpur-Petaling Jaya corridor
is compared to other cities in Table 2.  The modal split in Kuala Lumpur
exhibits a comparatively high proportion of automobiles, a very high
percentage of motorcycle traffic and relatively low reliance on public
tranait. It must be taken into account that Kuala Lumpur figure is for a
corridor outside the central city, with a low population density (a density



ANNEX 
only about one-third the average in Singapore, for example)* Even
with this reservation, a greater predominance of private vehicle travel
is only found in Caracas where the present income level is much higher
than that of Kuala Lumpur.
5.        The composition of present traffic on the Federal Highway
between Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya has been compared with that on
Route 1, the north-south arterial through Kuala Luwpur and is shown
below:
Federal Highway - 1970                   Route 1 - 197i/
Southwestern Boundary       Southern Boundary    Northern Boundary
of Kuala Lumpur           of Kuala Lumpur       of Kuala Lumpur
Cars                 63.0%                        65.0%                6o.0%
Motorcycles          23.5                         14.5                 18.2
Buses                 2.0                          3.5                  2.8
Trucks               11.2                         17.0                 19.0
Though the composition is similar on each of the approaches to Kuala
LAumpur, the Federal Highway has a particularly high proportion of
motorcycles which appear to serve as a substitute to bus transport for a
significant number of users.
C. Future Travel Forecast
6.        In the comparison of the consultants' projection of transport
demand in the Kuala Lumpur-Petaling Jaya corridor with forecasts of other
cities, the predominance of private vehicle travel is still notable
(Table 3). The proportion of passengers traveling by bus is forecast to
decline to about 18%, while that of motorcycles increases to about 20%.
This suggests the need for encouragement of public transport in the
Kuala Lumpur-Petaling Jaya corridor (and other parts of metropolitan
Kuala Lumpur) to shift more transport demand towards mass transit as
intended in proposed project financed studies (paras. 4h05-4.06).
7.        The level of traffic forecast by the consultants in 1985 would
be 2.2 times the present level in terms of the number of persons traveling.
The study on Route 1 (north-south arterial through Kuala Lumpur) shows the
10 year growth factor of transport demand between 1970 and 1980 to be 2.8
(south of Kuala Lwnmur) and 2.0 (north of KRala Lumpur), and between 1970
and 1990, 4.9 and 3.2 respectively. The forecasts of both studies are
generally consistent given roughly equal relative growth of tributary
populations to respective roads.
1/  Malaysia Highway Feasibility Study, Route 1, Vallentine, Laurie & Davies,
August 1971



ANNEt 3
Page 3
8.       In order to make comparisons of travel growth in other
selected cities, the absolute growth in teors of number of persons
traveled is divided by population growth to obtain growth in travel
per person. The growth factors in trips per perom for the 15 year
period (1971-85) in these cities is shoui below:
Kuala Lumpur-
Petaling Jaya      Singapore   Caracas  Bogota
Total Private Vehicles       1.7              1.5        1.7
Cars                         1.6              1.6                  1.7
Motorcycles                  2.0              1.7'
Ptxblic Trasit               0.7              0.9         1.1     1.3
Total       1.3              1.1        1.1       1.4
9.        The comparison indicates a clos- similarity in each component
between the Kuala Lumpur-Petaling Jaya and Singapore forecasta. However,
the  ingapore growth factors are applied to a proset pattern with a
much heavier depedence on public transport (particularly due to a
reliance on "Jitney" taxis instead of motorcycles, Table 2) and the
resulting transport patterns in the two cities are quire different.
Caracas' forecast of per capita person travel is much lower, part of the
reason being that it has already reached a level today which Kuala
Lumpur will take 15 to 20 years to attain in terme of both per capita
income and car ownership. The Bogota growth factors for total person
travel and car person travel are similar to those forecast in Kuala Lumpur
but greater use of public transit is reflected in the relative growth of
travel by that mode.
D. Results of Comparisons
10.       The comparisons of present and future travel that are possible
between cities are necessarily incomplete in breadth and depth of treatment.
The conclusions that can be usefully drawn aret
(a) The Kuala Lumpur-Petaling Jaya corridor has
fairly distinctive characteristics of modal
aplit, with a high level of private vehicle
travel, especially by motorcycles, and,
conversely, a relatively modest proportion
of public transport travel.



Page 4
(b) Although the ccnaultants' forecast of the
transport demand in this corridor would
indicate an accentuation of these
characteriatics, their forecasts of each
oomponent of transport demand.are not
inconsi:stent with those determined in
studies of several other roughly
comparable urban are"a.
(c)  Taking-these characteristics into account,
the following special provisions are
considered appropriate and 'Justifiable
for Inclusion in the proposed projects
i)   :provion of exclusive cycle lanes
.pra. 4.04);
ii) J.ncluaion of studies on public
- transport end private vehicle us
policies (paras. h4.05-4.o6);
iii)  inclusion of a sensitivity analysis
of foecast travel (a 20% reduction
-or vehicle traffic) primarily in
anticipation of possible improvements
in public transport (paras. 3.14, 5.03).
i. 'Capacity Restraints on Forecast Demand
1.        Consultant forecasts of "basic" peak and off-peak travel
demand in 1975 and 1985 in the Duala lwmzur-Petaling Jaya corridor,
based on the initial-assumption of travel conditions remaining as at
present, were assigned to each of the alternative improvement schemes
A through D and the "without" acheme (Annex 4). For each alternative
the basic peak and off-peak demand was allowed to vary according to
resulting road capacity and congestion conditions in relation to an
assumed travel time elasticity. After separate revision of peak and
off-peak travel demand based on travel time elasticity,each was
reassigned,travel times recalculated, demand revised, etc., until a
balance between road supply and demand at representative peak and
off-peak travel cost levels were obtained. The resulting travel
characteristics for each scheme are summarized in Annex 4. The extent
of restraint in basic peak and off-peak travel demand is given in the
following paragraphs.



ANNM 3
Page 5
12.       Scheme A (dual 3-lanes with at-grade intersections): About
25% of the 1975 basic peak demand and 10% of the off-peak demand would
be restricted by capacity limitations. About 55% of 1985 basic peak
demand and 140% of off-peak demand would be sappressed. Significant
travel restraint would occur aoon after 1975 even if the level of basic
demand increases more slowly as in the sensitivity analysis considered
(20% reduction in the growth of travel demand up to 1985).
13.       Scheme B (dual 2-lanes with all the intersections grade
aeparated): No peak or off-peak reatraint of basic demand would occur
in 1975, but in 1985, about 25% of basic peak and 5% of off-peak demand
would be restrained by capacity limits. With the sensitivity analysis
assumption of reduced traffic growth, peak hour restraint would be nearly
eliminated.
14.       Scheme C (dual 3-lanes plus grade separation): Although no
significant restraint of basic peak hour demand would occur by 1985,
conditions would be just at the point where demand restraint would begin
to occur. Reduced growth of basic travel demand would extend this
sufficiency condition to beyond 1985, possibly to 1990.
15.       Scheme D (dual 4-lanes plus further substantial improvement):
No restraint of basic demand would occur even in 1985 and conditions
would not approach the point where restraint would begin. -
16.       In Schemes C and D., the roadway sections and intersections
toward the vest end of the project (opposite to Kuala Lumpur) showed more
spare capacity than other sections. Upon further detailed analysis of
Scheme C it was found that the improvements of three interaections (6, 7 and 8)
to the western end of this project could be deferr6d tor about 5 years after
initial construction. Therefore, these intersection improvements were excluded
from the final scheme adopted (see para. 4.09 and Annex 4 paras. 5, 6).  The
effect of these deferrals would be to ahorten the time at which capacity
restraint would occur on the implemented portiona of Scheme C. By the early
1980's significant capacity, restraint could occur at the grade level inter-
sections 6, 7 and 8 with expected growth in demand, by about 1985 with reduced
traffic growth.
April 5, 1972






MALAYSIA
KUAIA LUMIR lJDflA  TRASPORT PRIJECT
NUMBER OF VEHICLES PER 1,OOO PERS(IS IN SELECTED CITIES
Commercial
Tear          Cty            Pivate Car           Motorcycle          Tad           Bus         Vehicles
1971      KIMala Lumpuri/        44.0                48.0             1.0           1.0           12.6
1970      Caracas                95.2                                 7.2           o.6              Y
1969      Singapore              40.5                30.5             2.7           1.0            9.5
1970     Bangkok                143.3                22.3             2.6           1.2           114.2
1969      Bogota                 22.0                                 3.6           1.4 1s
1970      Istanbul               14.5                 2.2             5.3           1.0           11.9
1990      Kuala Lumpur           8
Projected /         88.0               110.0             2.0
1992      Singapore             126.4                30.5                                         12.8
I/  Selangor State; separate KXala Lumpur data not available.
2/ Not available.
Sources: a) Bogota - Transport and Urban Development Study, Phase I, Vol. III, Table 9.1
b) Bangkok Transportation Study, Office of Metropolitan Traffic Planning, pp. 87.
c) Feasibility Study of Istanbul-Ismit Expressway, Sauti Consulting                             e
Engineers, Tables 4-2-3-8 and 5-2-la.
d) Singapore, The UN Urban Renewal and Development Project, Part Two,
Surveys and Analyses, pp. 32; Part Three, Planning and Transport, pp. 36.
e) Demand Estimation for the Caracas Metro, Summary Report, March 1970.
f)  Kuala Lumpur - Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
-                     Freeman, Fox & Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRAI&PORT PPsOJEGT
PRESE~ff NDDAL SPLIT IN SELETED CITIES
(percent of total passengers)
Bang!rok                            Istanbul
Kuala Luupur-                              gMmorla   Nain Approaches                    -lImit
Transport Yide           Pet    g jr y      CaracJas    SinBore        Bridge    to Ontral Anixa          t      CorA
1970 1966 T - '---.w-- *Xt 1- 1                                fi                                    196F 
Private car                 46.9             45.6         26.6          22,1         29.0              16.7           -
TaxiV                        5.0             18.3           47.o                     -10               12.6            2
Sub-total                   51.9             63.9         48.3          26.1         36.0              29.3        30.8
Hotorcycle                  13.1                           8.5           5,0          5.0
Bus                          34.6            35.5         42.4          68.9         59.0              70.7        63.9
Commercial Vehicles          -                0.6          0.8-                                        -
Total                      100.0            100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0             100.0       100.0
1/  Includes "jitney" or !pirate" taxis,
2/ Separate car and taxi data unavailable.
Source: See Table 1.
April 5, 1972



ALNEX 3
Page d
TABLE 3
NALAYSIA
KUAIA LUNPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PRIDJECT
PiD=CT)D YDDAL SPLIT IN 51LECTED CITIES
(percent of total passengers)
Kuala Luwpur-
Transport Mode               Petng Ja         Caracas    Singpore    Bogota
1965          1990-        1992199
Private car                     57.h           45-50        33.6         19.2
Taxi'                            5.0           -_           25.1         13.7
Sub-total                       62.4               2        58.7         32.9
Motorcycle                      20.1             -           5.3           -
Bus                             17.5           45-50        36.0        67.1
Comarcial vehicle.                -              -            -
Total                          100.0            100        100.0       100.0
l/ Includes "jitney" or "pirate" taxis.
2/ Balances of person travel not by private car carried by public transport
consisting of buses and taxis, separate proportions unavailable.
Source: See Table 1.
April 5, 1972






ANNEX 4
Page 1
MAMYSTA
KUA  LUMR  URBAN TR&NSPORT PROJECT
ALTERNTIVE I     POVRMT SCEEME
FOR THE FEDERAL H1iOWAT
A. Feasibility StudZ of Alternatives
1.        The present highway subject to improvemnt is a dual 2-Jano,
ldted ac ceas road.  In the 5.7 mile project section from Jalan Brick-
fields to Jalan Klang (South), there are nine edisting intersections
at grade.
2.        The feasibility study of the inprovement of the Federal Highway
was carried out by Freeman, Fox & Partnorc fron March to September 1971.
In the procesa of determining the mont appropriate scheme of improvement,
the consultants examined four alternative schenes In detail. The four
alternatives considered were:
Schem  A -  a dul 3-lane roadway with nine widened intersections
At grade, (US$8 million).21
Schem  B -  a dual 2-lane roadway with each of eight remaining
intersections grade separated (two existing inter-
sections being cibined into cne new intersection),
(US$17 million).
Schme C -  a dual 3-lane roadway with dual 12 ft. cycle lanes
between intersections Noe. 3 and 8 (Map 3) with each
of eight remaining intersection. grade separated,
(US$26 million).:
Scheme D - a dual 4-lane roadway with grade separated intersections
except between intersections 3 and 8 (see Map 3) where
it would combine a dual 2-lane through traffic viaduct
with a dual 3-lane grade level roadway for local traffic,
(US$35 million). 
g/ Cost of construction, services relocation, design and supervision in-
cluding 10% contingencies plus coats cf land acquisition. Cost con-
tingencies incorporated in project coeta (para. hI.13) are 30% for
construction cost and 10% for other project works conponents.



AINNEX h
Page 2
For purposes of benefit co*putati4n, a Owith6utu situation was also
specified. The "without* dit'i&tiob, defined is not a "do nothing" alter-
native, but one which repreaenta inimiJ. necessary imtprovemnt of road
consditent with restricted travel grdtth.  The "without" scheme consists
of the existing road with widening of several at-grade intorsections in
1973/74 and widening Of the ro84vsy to dual 3 lanes in 1979/80 (as Scheme
A), total cost US$8.3 *illioft.jy
3.        Consultant forecasts Of tratel demand for 1975 and 1985 based on
the initial assumption of future travel conditions aS at present were assigned
to each of the schemes and were allowed to vary in relation to the resulting
road capacity and congestion conditions (see Annex 3). The eventual equili-
brium achieved between de.and and road supply and the resulting travel
characteristics for each scheme are summarized below:
1975                              1985.
"Without"  very, Significant capaditS restraint    (Ifcproved to Scheme A
Scheme    on forecast peak trtffic, sres          standards by 1980)
capacity rest.int oil off-peak
traffic (critical capacity at both
intersectionS and on roadway sec-
tions), long delays and lov speeds
for remaining traffic
Scheme A    significant cap$city restraint on       oxtrke capacity restraint
forecast peak traffic (likiting         on forecast peak and off-peak
capacity at intersections), long        travel (limiting capacity
delays and low speeds for remaining    at intersections), extreme
traffic                                 delays and low speeds for
remaining traffic
Scheme B    adequate capacity for forecast          significant capacity restraint
traffic, delays and speeds rela-        on forecast peak traffic
tively unaffected by congestion         (limiting capacity on roadway
sections), moderate delays
and reduced speeds for remaining
traffic
Scheme C    adequate capacity for forecast          minor capacity restraint on
traffic, delays and speeds rela-        forecast peak traffic (limiting
tively unaffected by congestion         capacity on roadway sections),
delays and speeds relatively
unaffected by congestion
Scheme D    adequate capacity for forecast          adequate capacity for forecast
traffic, delays and speeds rela-        traffic, delays and speeds rela-
tively unaffected by congestion         tively unaffected by congestion
1:/ Cost of construction, services relocation, design and supervision including
10% contingencies plus costs of land acquisition. Cost contingencies incor-
porated in project costs (para. 4.13 ) are 30* for construction cost and 10%
for other project works components.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
4.        Benefits of increased travel and reduced travel costs were
quantified on the basis of detailed analyses of the differences in
travel characteristics of each of the schemes as compared against the
%i'wthuut" scheme (Annex 7).  The differences in the econcmic costs of
investment were then snt against the net benefits of alternative improve-
ment schemes in internal economic return (IER) calculations. The IER
of Schewe B was marginanly higher than Scheme C, but the additional
benef6ts attribixtabe to Scheme C brought a mare than adequate return
on the additional I=tve3tlent required and the scheme also provided signi-
Clcant non-qnantifiable advsntages. For These reasons, Scheme C, with
minor modifications, was recamuended by the consultants at tvhe conclusion
n,f their feasibility studies.!/ The alterations to Scheme C in the recom-
r.ended scheme were8
(a) incorporation of cycle lanes ever the entire project
length;
(b) simplification of the design of intersection No. 4.
The cost of the recomend¶d modified Scheme C was the same as the original
Schome C, US$26 million.t/
P.  Schece C - Second Revision and Phasing
5.        Further rei-vton= were made in mndified Scheme ;0 to adapt it more
closely to the short term traffic needs while leaving soue flexibility for
futuire expansIn. These modifications consisted of (a) siuDlification of
interchanges 2 and 5, and (b) postponement of the construction of grade
snppareted iuterchangen 6, 7 and 8.
6.        Thoe revised first stage Scheme C waa eatimated to cost US$ 17.0
millJon.1/y  The addition of he  three interchanges at a later date would
coct another US$ 2.? mnillion.21 !' The estimated staging period would be
five years and could be longer if new transport policies were particularly
effective in reducing traffic growth.
1/  rederal High^way 2 Feasibility Study (Draft), Freeman, Fox & Partners,
September 1971.
2/  Cost of construct±an, cervices relocation, design and supervision
including 10% contingencies plus costs of land acquisition.  Cost con-
tingencies incorporated ia pro.ject costs (paLr. l .12) are 30% for
construction co3t .and 10% for other proJect works coiponents.
~/  This cost estiir.-es was based on prelimiinary engineering on a comparable
basis to the alternative schemes discussed here. Flowever, the detailed
engineering led to revised cost estimates of US$ 29 million (para. 4.ll)
which camnot. be comi.,4ed to the alternative schemea without an adjustment
factor which would require detailed engineering of the alternatives.
4V  Technical redesign of interchanges 6 and 7 has reduced their total cost
by 'US$ 03.9 mil116o. as compared with the costs based on preliminary
engineering in the ccnsultanto' z'easioility report.



:x as
7.        Scheme 1 was also exai*hed ih detail f r poesible t6difidations
which could adapt it toz*e closely 6' short tttrm needs.  The original
Sche*e B was altejtd by' the dele6±ot of, itersection No. 8, t4chnical
redesglgn of interchaftges o and 7 and addition of dual 12-foot cycle lanes
over its entire 1 ngth.  The cost of th6 revised :chs&4 was atprocimately
US$134.14 millidn.2/ It was niot donsidered feasible to eliminate inter-
changes 6 and 7 as in first stage Sch ibe C because the dap&city of grade
level intersections coupAtible with the dual 2-lane Schede b   roadway would
be reached in a very short tiA6 interval.
8.        The revisions and Vodifidatioih  of Sdheae C and 8 have altered
the bases of dothpatison between the driginal scheoes d6t out in the con-
sultants f6aBibilUty-study including quantified a?d  don'.quantified project
returns.  In both respects, the f±lrst stage Scheme C is shown to increase
its relati#6 advantages over other altAthatives.  The quantified returns
expressed in.revisod r-ites of return inheopdrating altered benefits and costs
based on revisiona Of Scheies C and B are6 duarized Tih paeabb. 5.02-5.o3.
The non-quantified returns of the fiUst stage Scheme C over other alternatives
including ihdified Scheme B are summariied in paras. 5.08-5.1O.
C .  Dqscription of.   $d Penat4ed_I4terOeetiois -
9.        the firtt stage Sche   C incot4orates a dual 34ian  roadway with
.'ive grade sparated intersietioms and thfee at-grade intersections.  Daal
12-foot cycl  lanes-*ould be indibrpoated in the section where the ±oadway
is provided Uith grade separated intersictions.  A suplementary lane in
each direction would be provided betweeh intersections 3 and 5 (Map 3).
10,       The design of the five grade deparated intersectionis is as follows:
Ihtersection No. 12  Jalan _ickf14ildS
The Ftderal Hinhwat' it- daried over a side road which west of
the Federal Highway' crosses the Llang Riv-er on a new bridge on the
site of the existing trfiss bridib and e8at of the Federil Highway
connects with an access r6ad 6b1+in  properties bn the sodth sidoe of
the Federal Highwa?. The Federal Highway ctbs5es abode the side road
because the level of the biidgt crobsing the ri*er dSteruines the level
of the side trad. Despite the fact that sdi" property de*olition east
of the Federal Highway is necessazry and that the terrain north of the
bridge crossing is undulating, a required access road is incorporated.
1/  Cost of construction, services zSlodatidh, design and supervision including
10% contingencies plmxs costS of lihd acquisition.  Cost contingencies incor-
porated in project costs (pOra. 4.13) are 30% for construction cost and 10%
for other project works coniponents.



ANNEX 4
Page5
Two curred ramps between the southbound carriageway of
the Federal Highway and the access road and two straight ramps
of diamond form on the west side of the Federal Highway cater
for turning movements between the two roads. Traffic lights are
provided on the access road to control right-turning movements.
Intersection No. 2 - Jalan Klang
The Federal Highway is carried through a wide right angle
curve to connect with Jalan Lornie. The extensions of Jalan
Lornie to Jalan Klang and the Federal Higkway to the CAter
Southern Route are carried on two bridges over the curved section
Federal Highway to a right angle junction. The Federal Highway -
Outer Southern Route extension is bridged over the Jalan Lornie - Jalan
Slang extension and connecting ramps are situated in a diamond
pattern. Traffic lights are provided to control vehicle movements
between the access rampe and the side road, Jalan Klang.
Intersection No. 3 - Jalan Pantai Bahru
This interchange is a diamond, the Federal Highway running at
low level beneath the side road. Traffic lights are provided on
the side road to control right-turning movements to and from the
access ramps.
North of the Federal Highway, Jalan Pantai Bahru turns through
a right angle on a new, improved alignment in order to connect
farther east with Jalan Bungsar. The present connection of Jalan
Bungsar and the Federal Highway in between Intersections Nos. 2 and
3 will be closed.
South of the Federal Highway, the side road is planned to
connect with a proposed road which will serve new development. Only
a short spur, a few hundred yards long, of the side road south of
the Federal Highway would be built initially.
Intersection No. 4 - Jalan University/Jalan Gaging
This is a half diamond interchange, ramps being provided only
on the east side of the crossing to cater for the major movements
(to and from Kuala Lumpur). Flows to and from the west are catered
for at the next interchange to the west. The Federal Highway runs
at low level, a single bridge carrying the side road above it. Traffic
lights are provided to control the right turns between the side road
and the access ramps.



ANNEX h
Page 6
Intersection No. 5 - Jalan Timor/Jalan Utara
This is a diamond interchange catering for all movements.
The side road ia carried on a bridge above the Federal Highway.
Traffic lights are provided to control right-turn movements
between the ramps and-the side road.
A4ril 5, 1972



ANN_ 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LIPR URBAN TRANSPCRT PROJECT
MAINTENANCE STUDY AND ROUTE 1 ENGINE:RING
1.        At the  request of the Malaysian Gove=wmt, the project
includes a study of roa4 maintenance operations and detailed engineering
for Route 1 (aee para. 4.06).
2.        The principal objectives of the study of road maintenance
operations are to:
(i)    recommend desirable aystem of route numbering and
road mileage marking on which the preparation of
a road inventory would be based;
(ii)   prepare a comprehensive inventory of the rosda
listed in the registers of the Federal and State
Public Works Departments (FWD), and to recommend
a desirable road classification system;
(iii) recomuend procedures for the continued updating
of the inventory so prepared;
(iv)   study the organizations of the Federal and State
agencies responsible for road maintenance, and to
recommend, within the framework of the Constitution,
the desirable structures of such agencies, giving
special emphasis to coordinating responsibilities
for planning and execution of maintenance operations
presently divided between the Federal and 3tat.
agencies;
(v)    assess the type, condition and age of the road
maintenance equipment at present in operation, and to
recommend a desirable inventory of equipment to
maintain the highway network; to recommend a replace-
ment and acquisition program to achieve this desirable
inventory;
(vi)   recommend how such equipment replacement and acquisition
should be financed (e.g. hire charges, sinking fund, etc.);
(vii) recommend a simple accounting procedure for the costing of
road maintenance operations; and
(viii) investigate the need for and to recommend mitable
training programs for road supervisors, technicians
and equipment operators.



ANNEX 
page 2
The study's findings as agreed betwee the Government and the Bank
would be implamnted at earliest chances in future.
3.        At the Govermentla request this project would provide
detailed engineering for now conatruction and improvement of about
137 miles of Federal Route 1 for which consultants completed
feasibility studies. Detailed engineering commenced in February 1972,
and approximately 25% will be completed by the time of loan signing.
Retroactive financing of the detailed engineering in a second highway
project would involve an inordinately long finance period, and it is
therefore recommnded that financing for detailed engineering of
Route 1 be included in the present project, of which a portion not
exceeding US$ 400,000 would be for retroactive financing.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 6
page
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
THS HIGHWAY S2CTOR
A. The Highwa Network
1.        Federal and State Public Works Departmens(PWD's) are responsible
for 10,719 miles of roads in West Malaysia of which a highproportion 83%, are paved
East Malaysia has a total of 2,238 miles of which only h07 miles are
paved. Roads are classified for administrative purposes as federal, state,
and local authority roads. About 3,000 miles are federal and 7,000 state.
Federal roads are main trunk roads linking one state to another or linking
ports to the federal network, but there is no firm definition. Details
of tyoes and mileage of Malaysian roads are presented in Table 1.
2.        Road development is concentrated on the west coast of West
Malaysia reflecting the area's high proportion, 70%, of national
population (see Map 1). East Malaysia and the east coast of West M4alaysia
have much less well developed road networks. The road network in West
Malaysia has expanded from 6,500 to 10,719 miles or by 65% in the 16 years
up to 1970.
3.        The road network of the more populous west coast regions of
West Malaysia is regarded as adequate for present needs although some
upgrading and relocation of existing roads are needed to accommodate
traffic growth.  The UNDP-funded study "Transport Development in Malaysia"
ecmpleted in 1969 by Robert R. Nathan Associates, Inc. (U.S. consultants)
came to the same conclusion. During the period of the study the Government
limited investments in the sector, but after its completion the level of
commitments increased substantially. Federal investment in roads and
bridges in West Malaysia for the Second Malaysia Flan period (1971-1975)
is programmed at a level more than three times that of the previous five
years. Details of investment in road construction and improvement appear
in Table 2.
It.       Apart from one 15 mile section of toll road on the main route
north of Kuala Lumpur (an alternative route, 12.5 miles longer is
available), the use of public roads is normally not restricted. Vehicle
weights, dimensions, and loads are controlled by the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) in accordance with 1958 Traffic Ordinances. The axle load limit
is 8 long tons and gross weight is limited to 14 long tons for 2 axles and
18 long tons for 3 axles. Trailers and semi-trailers are permitted, and
maximum.. total length is normally 30 feet. Vehicle width is limited to
7 feet 6 inches unless a special permit is granted. As container traffic
requiring 8 foot width is imminent, the Government should consider revising
this requirement.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Eaforcement of vehicle loading is also the responsibility of
the MOC, but the enforcement staff is small (only 20 people). Only
5 weigh bridges are available for the entire country, and these are
located away from the main roads. Overloading is frequent especially
in timber transport.
B. Highw  Administration
6.        Re.poftsibilit47 for h±gYa y administration is divided between
the Ministry of Communications (MOO) and the Ministry of Wrks and
Power (MOW). The MOC is responsible for licensing, registration, and
regulation. The MOW is responsible for construction and maintenance
of federal roads and for allocation of maintenance funds for state
roads. The Federal P1D ia reaponsible to the MOW for these activities.
Each of the 11 state PWD's in Nbst Malaysia is autonomous but administers
all federal road construction and maintenance work outside Kuala Lumpur
on an agency basis. Separate PWD'. in Sabah and Sarawak administer roads
in East Malaysia.
7.        The Federal PWD is organized under a Director General anrd
two deputy directors general fot development and engineering services
(see Chart l).The Deputy Director General for Development controls five
operating divisions (Roads, Armed Forces Works, Building, 'water Supply,
and Education Works), and the Deputy Director General for Engineering
Services has four supporting divisions (M4echanical, Quantity Surveying,
Electrical, and Stores).  A Design and Research Division and an Accountinrg
Division report directly to the Director General.
8.        The Roads Diviuion of the Federal PWD is administered by
a director and has five sections: Implementation, Design, Planning,
ProJect Coordination, and Federal Land Development Projects. The
Implementation Section is responsible for road improvements, minor
road projects, maintenance of all federal roads, road inventory, one
quarry and a few other minor roads.
9.        The Design Section is responsible for design of roadways but
not structures. Structures are designed by the Design and Research Division
which reports directly to the Director General. The Planning Section
(Highway Planning Unit) will be discussed below. The Project Coordination
and Federal Land Development Authorities sections deal with larger projects
to which engineers and other technical staff are seconded.
10.       Although, because of individual cooperation, the organization
appears to function satisfactorily, responsibilities are divided. The
Design Section can engineer roads but not bridges, the materials laboratory
is remote from the Roads Department, potentially.its largest customer and
control over road construction and maintenance equipment is maintained by
the Mechanical Department.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
11.       State Pablic Works Departments are organized in a similar
manner as the Federal PWID but with less specialization. A single
engineer may deal with water supply, electricity, buildings, and
maintenance as well as roada. Technical staff of the State PWD's are
paid by the State but are provided on rotating assignments by the
Federal PWD. Directors of the State PWD's hold ambiguous positions
of dual responsibility to the Federal PWD and to their respective
States, where the State WIorks Committees and State Legislatures approve
their budget. The FederalF PWD uses the State PWFD's as executing
agents for construction and maintenance of federal roads outside of
Kuala Lumpur.
12.       the Roads Division of the Federal FWD has had until recently
a shortage of staf Y. Of 68 authorized positiona for engineers and
technicians, 44 were vacant but have now been fIlled.  This probleu arose
in part from the difficulty of retaining engineers with government
salaries w.iFch were generally lower than thoae of the private sector and
in part from alleged preferential treatment given to Malays at the expense
of other ethnic groure. The Governmcnt hired a vmuber of expatriate
engineers on three-year contracts, all as technical assistance on a
bilateral basis. A new law is in preparation requiring local engineers
to undertake two-year assignments with the Goverment after graduation.
C.  Highway Plarning and Finance
13.       Responsibility for highway planning is divided among the
Ministry of Communications, the PID, and the Economic Planning Unit.
The Transport Planning Unit in the Ministry of Communications is
thinly staffed with 6 relatively new people, but they are receiving
advisory support from a Bank staff member on two year secondment to
the unit. The Transoort Planning Uhit has not been a significant force
in highway planning, but sone improvement is possible in the next two
years.
14.       The Highway Planning Unit in the Roads Division of the Federal
PID was established in 1966 to provide counterpart staff for the
Transport Development in Malaysia study. it continues to function and
is assisted by a UJNDP-sponsored advisor, but it is not a fully effective
instrument of national highway planning.  The Highway Planning Unit will
shortly be moved outside of the PUD vrto a higher advisory level within
the Ministry of Works and Power. With the proper suport, it could be
a more sipi±icant force in the future.
15.       The Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's Office has
assumed some of the responsibilituy for highway planning, but the demands
on limited staff preclude any thorough highway p'lanning effort beyond
broad budgeting considerations.



ANJErX 6
Page h1
16.       No special institutional arrangements have been made for
urban highway planning or for highway planning in metropolitan Ku,l;I
Lumpur.  The Project Coordination Section of the Roads Division
(Federal P1D) has implemented a number of road proJects in Ku.ala
Lumpur, but its focus is short rather than long range.
17.       Highways are financed from general revenues, and there are
no earmarked taxes for use on highway construction or maintenance.
Budgets are prepared arnually within the framework of the Second
Malaysia Plan.  The federal highway budget is prepared by the
Director of Roads for the Director General of the PWD. It is
reviewed and approved by the Economic Planning Unit on behalf of the
National Development Planning Council. State highway budgets are
prepared by the Directors of the State PWD's and they are subject to
approval by the respective State Works Committees and State Legislatures.
18.     'The Second Malaysia Plia  (1971-1975) allocates M$ 693.5 million
(US$ 248 nillioh) or 9.6% of the nlatiohal budget to highway and,bridge con-
struction and improvements and tost Of this amount will be Spent in West
Malaysia.  The entire transport sector will receive M$ 1,188 million (US$ 424
millior.) or 16.L% of the budget tot the five year period. Domestic and
foreign borrowing will auplement general revenues as a source of funds for
this program.
"i9. gghway.,#giA6eering
19.       Dbsigh statahidsd for f6detal roads have recently been revised
and brought up to dates and are gtnerally satisfactory.  However,
design is baded oh thd legal t&tiuh= loading of 8 long tons on a single
axle. Because of the overloading of vehicles still prevailing and the
tendency to inerease the tr'ack loading capacity, the proposed maintenance
study should eon*ider the advisability of increasing the axle load one unit
from 8 to 10 long toi* in its review of vehicle weights and dimensions (see
Annex 5).
20.       Shortages of staff have led recently to the use of local
consulting firms for feasibility studies and design of smaller projects.
Foreign consulting engineers have been engaged for larger ,obs and a few
are currently operating in the country.
21.       The Federal and State PWD's Own and operate 7 large quarries
(1 federal, 6 state)from which most of the road network can be served
within a maximum haulage distance of 100 miles.  In the absehce of natural
gravel, crushed stone is used for base and as chipping for the asphalt
carpet. Because of the high percentage of paved roads, large quantit,ies
of chips are needed for the annual resurfacing and resheeting. Each
quarry has a capacity of about 1,000 cubic yards of crushed stone per da,y.
They are properly equipped with modern equipment and are well run. Cost
accounting methoda are generally adequate, but sometimes does not include
depreciation of plant.



ANNE 6
Page 5
E. Highway Construction
22.       The Roads Division of the Federal PWD is responsible for the
construction of all federal roads.  It assumes direct responsibility
for executing federal road projects within Kuala Lumpur and for some
other particularly important projects as the department's implementation
capacity permits. Construction of other federal roads is done by the
State PD's. About 90% of all roadworks excluding structures are done
by force account using the Federal and State PD's own equipment and
permanent work force. The Federal and State PWD's have about 1,600
pieces of heavy construction equipment and a tenured labor force of about
40,000 full-time workers; about 1% of the national work force.  With
these resources the total departmental capacity for road construction is
about M$ 100 million a year (US$ 35.7 mdllion). Although the utilization
of the Federal and State ND's permanent labor force, its equipment and
experience are strong reasons for continuation of force-account work, the
Government recognizes the need to foster a road construction industry to
carry out an increasing volume of new conatruction and to eventually be
capable of competing for international contracts.
23.       Competent local contractors build about 95% of all concrete
structure work, and local earth moving firms are being encouraged to
ecuip themselves better for compaction operations. The Bank's Second
Fighway Project should provide opportunities for this new industry to
be awarded contracts of a size suited to their financing and capabilities.
About 40 local contractors are prequalified for highway structures and
about 10 for minor roadworks.
F. Highway Maintenance
2h.       Federeal roads are maintained by the State PWD's using funds
provided by the Federal Government. Actual work is carried out by 49
district offices within the State PWD's, and the total road maintenance
la-bor force is about 7,500. There is no special maintenance division
within the Federal PTD, and maintenance issues are handled by the Imple-
mentation Section along with its many other activities.  Similarly the
Sta.ate P.D's have no special maintenance units, and the work of each
engineer is a mix of different tasks determined largely by current workload
Pnd immediate needs.
251.      Funds for maintenance of state roads come from the Federal
Government and are allocated among the States according to an arbitrary
and inflexible mileage basis, regardless of actual maintenance costs.
According to constitutional provisions, the National Finance Council
deterinines the rate at which such funds are allocated.  In 1970 this
r:n.te was raised to M$ hl,600 (US$ 1,640) per mile from M$ &,500 (US$ 1,600)
per mile which has been in effect for over 10 years. These funds are
chonrv-lled through the Federal PWD, but it has little direct influence on
itetU:Il use of the money. Control of the funds is limited to auditors of
tht respective Stctes.



ANtJEX 6
Page 
26.       Funds for maintenance of federal roads are budgeted separately
and are not subject to control by the National Finance Council. As such
they can be changed more easily, and the current level of expenditure
is M$ 5,f600 (US$ 2,000) per mile of federal road. These funds are
transferred td the State PWD's which perform. road maintenance for the
Federal PWD.
27.       Costing of road maintenance operations is not recorded. Records
of total expenditures by State are maintained, but not in detail.
Thus, there is no firm basis to substantiate budgetary requests for
maintenance allocations.
28.       The central repair shop in Kuali Lumpur has am annual turnover
of about M$ 8 million (US$ 9.9 million) and 600 menx on its payroll. It
is capable of complete overhaul of 120 pieces of heavy equipment and
200 rehicles a year.  Cost accounting of the central shop (and of most
State shops) is based upon direct costs of each job with overhead allocated
among jobs at 60% of direct labor. No attempt is made to include
depreciation of plant and equipment in maintenance costs.
29.       There is no firm programming of road maintenance by the State
-P''s. Repairs are done when 7isual inspection shows that it is necessary,
and resurfacing is done whemthe cracking begins (every 4 or 5 years
depending upon traffic).  Maintenance of shoulders and ditches is often
neglected, and on some stretches there is no drainage provision. In
general, maintenance has kept the road surface in satisfactory condition,
but maintenance does not appear commensurate with the level of expenditures.
A road inventory which should be the basis for effective road maintenance
planning was first taken in 1S67 as part of the Transport Development for
Malaysia study.
30.       In order to identify accurately the deficiencies outlined above
in the ei4sting organization for road aaintenance, and to recommend
improvementa3 the oervices of a maintenance study by consultants is
included in the prcj.ct.  Dfltails of the study objectives are outlined in
Annex ,.   he atudy's f.ndings as agreed between the Government and the
Bank would be implmeented at earliest chances in future.
G. EcuiDment Maintenance
31.       Equipment for both ccnstruction and road maintenance is maintained
by the Mechanical Division of the Federal ?4D at the central workshop in
Kuala Lumpur (complets overhaul), by the repair shops of each of the State
.,'Ds (replacement, of major assemblies and some overhaul), and by 40 district
shops (routine maintenance).  The repair shops, especially the central shorp
in Kuala Lumpur, are well organized, properly laid out, and well stocked
with tools and equipment.
April 5, 1972



ANNEx 6
Page 7
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MALAYSIAN ROAD SYSTEM 1970
(length in miales)
Subtotal                    Subtotal
Local      West                        East
Federal  State  Authority  Malaysia  Sabah  Sarawak  Malaysia  Total
Concrete surface               6      -         -            6 
Bituminous surface        2,636      4,490      622      7,748       -        -         _         _
Surface dressing             204     1,049      -       1,253        -        _         _        _
Total pa.ved      2,846      5,539     622      9,007        131    276       4C7      9,4i
Waterbound macadam
(gravel)                    b        131     -          135        -        -        -         135
Laterite surface            178        981      -       1,159        536    759    1,295       2,!Z5L
Earth roads                   62       356      -                             918  !, 12  536     0CJ
Grend Total       3,090      7,007     622    10,719         711  1,527    2,235    12,c57
Source: Federal FWfD, January 1972.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 6
TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT IN WEST MALAYSIA, 1966-75
(M$ 0003,000)
Federal      State       Municipal       Total
First Malaysia Plan
(1966-70)                    70.0        48.3          5.7          123.0
Second Malaysia Plan
(1971-75)                   600.o        27.7         11.6          638.3
Source: Federal P'.D, January 1972
Note:  First Malaysia Plan figures are actual.  Second malaysia Plan
figures are those budgeted and planned, but the Govermment may
have difficulty spending the full Federal allocation during the
plan period. State and Municipal figures are for Federal grants.
In some cases these grants are supplemented by locsi funds.
April 5, 1972



Page 1
MLL&YSIA
KUALA LlPUR   BII TRANFSPORT ROJECT
C0NONMC A,M&IS
A. Benefit ComPutation for Alternative Improvements
Initroduction
1. *The benefit quantified for each alternative road improvemnt
scheme is a measure of the change in consumers' surplus between it and
an unimproved or minimally improved road. In each case, consumers'
surplus is altered as a reault of both "coat reducing" and 'toutpult
increasing" effects of the imProvement which together allow a larger
nunber of road users to travel at lesser personal and real reaource costs
than would the unimproved or minimally improved facility.  Cost reduction
benefits conist of net gains in casumrs' surplus of road users common
to both schemes compared and are computed at a rate equal to the full
difference in travel cost8 between the two. Benefits from increased travel
consist of (a) net gains in consumers' gorplus of users choosing to travel
in only one of the alternatives compard (computed according to the accepted
convention at the rate of one-half the difference in travel costs between
the two alternatives) and (b) net gains in consumers' surplus of non-users
resulting from the voluntary release of resource claims in the form of
increased tax payaents made by users choosing to travel in only one of the
alternatives compared (computed as equal to the net increase in tax revenues
resulting from increased travel). The rates required to convert changes
in travel patterns between schemes into these benefit categories are:
(a) unit costs of vehicle operation, (b) personal travel ti-me valuation
rates and (c) motor taxation rates.
Unit Costs of Vehicle Operation
2.        Vehicle operating costs are considered to consist of three
components:  (1) running costs,  (2) depreciation and interest, and  (3) direct
labor costs (of hired drivers and crew). Running cost rates are based on an
adaption to Kuala Iumur conditions of unit costs of vehicle operation in
urban areas at various average rates of speed observed in the U.K. The
approach adopted was to assess typical costs for each vehicle type operating
at its normal average urban operating speed (20 m.p.h. for buses and heavy
trucks, 25 m.p.h. for all other vehicles) and to consider that these costs
would vary with changes in average rates of speed as observed in urban areas
in Britain by the Road Fesearch Laboratory. j The resulting running cost
rates, net of taxes, for various vehicle types at different average operating
speeds is shown in Table 1. They are acceptable.
&./ "The Economic Assessment of Road Improvement Schemes", Road Research
Technical Paper No. 75, Road Research Laboratory, Ministry of Transport,
London, HMO., 1968.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        Depreciation and interest costs of comnercial vehicle operation
have been used to estimate the benefits of extended vehicle life and greater
vehicle utilization made possible by reduced distance and time of travel.
Cnly a small proportion of total depreciation and interest costs of commercial
vehicles were estimated to affect such benefits and the resulting distance
and time dependent rates for depreciation and the time dependent rate for
interest are conservative (Table 2).?/
4.        Labor costs of drivers and crew of commercial vehicles were derived
from official and commercial sources. It is assumed that time savings of
drivers and crew can be productively utilized and therefore full hourly wage
costs are used (Table 3). Real income levels are assumed to remain constant
through 1975 and then increase at a rate of 3% per annum. These labor cost
rates are considered reasonable.
Personal Travel Time
5.        The rates of personal travel time val-uation are based on proportions
of average wage rates observed in the U.K. / applied to average wage rates
for occupanta of rarious types of vehicles in KuaJla Lmpur (drivers and crew
of commercial vehicles excluded as these are assessed as operating cost'
elements, para. 4). The resulting valuation of personal travel time is
consistent with conservative current practice in other countries.  Travel-
time savings during non-working time are assumed to be valued at 25% of the--
wage rate of the principal wage earner of a household. This value applies
to travel time of all adult members of a household; that of children is
valued at one-third of this rate. Travel time savings during working time
are valued at the full average wage rate of the worker. Different rates for
occupants of cars, taxis, motorcycles and buses are used to reflect the
different wage levels of these different user groups (Table 4). Each rate
is assumed to remain constant through 1975 and then to increase relative to
an increase in real incoe levels of 3% per annum thereafter.  These rates
of personal travel time value are considered reasonable.
Motor Taxation Rates
6.        Increased tax yields from greater expenditure on fuel, oil, tires,
maintenance, etc., have been used to estimate the net gain in non-users consumers'
surplus resulting from increased travel. Instead of a simple offsetting
transfer payment, a net gain in consumers' surplus is considered to occur
because users choosing increased travel over alternative expenditures with
2/  The assumed proportions of depreciation and interest costs which
contribute to measurable benefits are less than those outlined in
"Quantification of Road User Savings", Jan De Weille, World Bank Staff
Occasional Papers No. 2, IBRD, 1966.
3/  "The Value of Time Savings9in Transport Investment Appraisal", EDD
Technical Note No. 3 (unpublished), Ministry of Transport, 1970.



AN1NEX 7
Page 3
lGsser tax costs are assumed to act rationally and by so doing maintain
or increase their own consumers' surplus while releasing resource
claims in the form of greater tax payments which will increase the
consumers' surplus of non-user beneficiaries qf public disbursementsJV
In analyses where increases in the volume of travel attributable to
road improvements are small and taxes on road users are low, this benefit
element can generally be ignored. In this case, however, the increases
i3 travel volumes and the level of road taxes are relatively high and
benefits of this type, though. small, are hignificapt. The increased
motor tax yields are compute4 by means of operating cost rates inclusive
of tax derived from the addition of current rates of taxation to the
vehicle operating costs exclusive of tax (Table 1). These gross tax
yield increases from transport are converted to net increases by
allowance for reduced tax yielda from decreased expenditures on other
goods and services which include tax. A factor of 0.8 is applied to
motor tax receipts to estimate net tax receipts. The applied rates of
valuation are acceptable.
B. Cost Computation for '"Without" Scheme
7.        In addition to the economic costs of construction estimated for
the alternative improvement schemes, certain construction costs for the
"without" scheme representing the minimal necessary improvement of the
Federal Highway were estimated and ±nclwded iz the return computations
as deductions to the cost streams of each alternative. The construction
costs for the "without" scheme, including a 10% coat contingency allowance
(as compared with the 20% contingency allowance contained in the costs
of the alternative improvements), were M$ 2.3 milliQn (us$ 0.8 million)
in 1973/1974 for widening of several intersections and $ 21.0 million
(US$ 7.5 million) in 1979/1980 for widening of the roadway to 2 x 3 lanes.
14/ See: McIntosh and Quarmby, "Generalised Costs,and the Estimation of
Movement Costs and Benefits in Transport Planning", MAU Note 179,
Mathematical Advisory Unit, Department of the ELvironment, U.K., 1970,
and van der Tak and Ray, "The Economic Benefits of Road Transport
Projects," pp. 27-29, World Bank Staff Occasional Papers No. 13, IBRD,
April 5, 1972






ANTNEX 7
Page 4L
TABLE 1
M_AAYSIA
KUALA LDMPUR UREBAN TrANSPORT PROJECT
tUz BmJi;nG C0C.1/ NEr OF TLAX
-(M cents per mile)
Averge Operating Speed
(m.p.h.)
Vehicle 2vpe              10       15        20       25        30       35        40
Motorcycle               2.h5     2.03      1.88     1.70      1.62     1.56      IJhl
Car                    10.24      8.h41     7.50     6.95      6.59     6.33      6.13
Taxi (diesei)           6.76      5.55     4.94      4.58     3.93      L.16     h.03
Light Truck              8.49     7.27      6.66     6.29      6.oh     5.87      5.7h
-Hes w -ruck           2l7.88    22.27    20.96    20.18    19.65         -         -
Rus                    -A'16.73    1476    13.77    13.18    12.78       -         -
L/  Operating costs exclusive of depreciation, interest and labor costs of
drJver and crew computed separately, see Tables 4 and 3, Annex 7.
Sonrce:   Federal F=iahway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
Freeman, Fox and Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



AmEX 7
page 5-
TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
KUAA.ALUNPUR  ROAN MASPORT PROJECT
VEHICLE DEB;EAIQf a          MITEST CO6TST.   NET 0? TAX
(M cents)
Depreciation                Interest
Vehicle Type               per mile .    per hour            per hour-
Motorcycle
Car                           -
Taxi (diesel)                2.85          27.60              28.00.
Light Truck                  4.41          10.70              13.30
Heavy Truck                  4.12          16.30              30.00
Bus                          3-07          24.00              41.60
1/ Portion of depreciation and interest costs estimated to reflect
real costs of vehicle life and utilization.
Source:    Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
Freeman, Fox and Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



AdNEX 7
Page 6
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMP   URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
VEICLE LABaR C06TSIv
(M cents per hour)
Labor Components
Vshicle Type                   Driver          Crew            Total
Motorcycle                   .  e
car
Taxd                           100.0            -               100.0
Light Truck                     95.0            -                95.0
?Heavy Truck                    98.6           37.l-C/          135.7
Dws                   ~~~~~~117.9      59.0o1           176.9
,/  Full wage costs of paid drivers and crew
2/   Average of .45 crew members per heavy truck
3/   Average of .50 conductors per bus
Source:   Federal Highwpy 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
Freeman, Fox and Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



-AtIEX 7
Page 7
TABLE 4
MALAYSIA
,KUALA LMeU 'URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PERSONAL  RAVEL TIHE COSTS
(M cents per-hour)
Working
. Time        -    Non-Working Time
Adult   -   - Adult                   - -
Driver or      Driver or           Child
Vehicle Type                   Passenger-    Passengerz/        PassengerY
Motorcycle                       160.0           40.0              13.3
Car                              448.5          112.1              37.4
Taxi-                            300.0           75.0              25.0
Light Truck-
Heavy Truck4/
BushY                           139.0            34.7              11.6
1/ Full wage rate of principal wage earner of household.
2/ Non-worklng time v 1/4 of wage rate of principal wage earner of household.
3/ Non-working time @ 1/12 of wage rate of principal wage earner of household.
I/ Working time costs of driver and crew included in Vehicle Labor costs,
Table3, Annex 7.
Source: Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
Freeman, Fox and Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



TABLE .
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRAAPORT PROJECT
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION IN THE ELANG VALLEYI 1957, 1970, 1980, 1985
(00's of persons)
1957      1970      L98OL"       19851/
Kuala Lunmur Metropolitan Area           402/     707                    1 X,150
Municipality of Kuala Luawur        316       452          6002/       680?/
Petaling Jaya Area                   403Y     143          205         245
Petaling Jaya Town                 17        93           95          95
Contiguous Built-up Areas          2          o 50       11 a        1503'
Balance of Metropolitan Area         44       112          195         225
Balance of Klang Valley                  227       402          640         760
Total Klang Valley                       627     1,109        1,64o       1,910
1/  Consultant estimate.
2/ Mission estimate based on partial census data or consultant forecast.
3/ 40,000 additional persons anticipated on the basis of latest development
program of Selangor State Development Corporation.
Source: 1957 and 1970 - Department of Statistics, 1957 and 1970 Census.
-   -    19BO and 1990 - Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft),
Freeman, Fox & Partners, September 1971.
April 5, 1972



TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TJANSPORT PROJECT
ROAD TRAFFIC GROWTH CH MAJOR APPROACHES TO KUALA- LUMPUR
(Average Daily Traffic (Excluding Motorcycles))
1963                      1971                   Ratio.         Qrowth, %
Direction:  Route,            Amount   -                  Amount  -     ...L          1971/1963        Per Annum
Northwest:  Route 1/                                      ,
Ji  Ipoh/''
J. Sentul         19,000        721.6O O7,00                19.8             2.-5           1.0
Northeast: Route 2            14,000        15tF9        29,000        12.2              .1i
East,       J. Gurney/,
J. Ampang          6,000         94           35,00Q4       1Ip78            4.4
Southeast:  Route l,           7, 000        80 o           OOO 8'                       2.9             4 q2
South:      J. SungeLiBesi6    6,000          6,8         17.'00                         2.6            13.9
Southwest:  Federal Highway/
Jo Klang/     t
J. Damansara      34,000        38,6          90,000        3t.8(            2.6            a2.9
Total      88,000       100.0        238,000        100,0            2.7             23.2
Source:  T!unicipility of' Ku41a  luipur, January:1972
April 5, 1972



TABLE 3
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF TRAVEL ON FEDERAL HIGHWAY2/
I (Average Dally Trips)
1971.                                       1980                                       1985
Consultant Forecast                          1971_                                        9__          __                    _985
Travel Mode                   Vehicles      P.C.U.'s  /   Persons         Vehicles      P.C.U.'s.Y   Persons          Vehicles      P:. U.B s./    Persons
Motorcycle                  15,000          7,500        20,000         38,000        19,000         51,000         52,000        26,000          70,000
Car/Taxi                    47,ooo         47,000        94,ooo        103,000       103,000        206,000        139,000       139,000         278,000
Bus                          1,700          5,100        51,000          2,000         6,000         55,000           2,000        6,000          55OOO
Light Truck                  4,300          4,300          -             7,000          7,000          -              8,000        8,000            -
Heavy Truck                  4,500         11,500          -             7,000         1,000           -              8,000       22,000            -
Total         72,500         75,400      165,000         157,000       154,000        312,000        209,000       201,000        403,000
Sensitivity Forecast3/
Total         72,500                                     125,000                                     170,000
1/ Volumes between intersections No. 3 and 4, see Map 3.
2/ Passenger car units (motorcycles @ 0.50, cars, taxis and light trucks @ 1.00, heavy trucks 0 2.75 and buses 0 3.00).
3/ 1980 and 1985 vehicles 0 80% of consultant forecast.
Source: Consultant Forecast Mission Estimates - Federal Highway 2 Feasibility Study (Draft), Freeman, Fox and Partners, September 1971.



TABLE 4i
MAAYSIA
KUALA LTJMPUR UlRBA  TRANSPORT PROJECT
DETAIL OF CCNsTUCTIcf CosT zsTAT
Total in M:
1;  Coneral                                   3,482,8Qo
2.  Site Clearance                              634,800
3.  fencing                                   1,045,100
4.  Esrthyorks                                5,65i,3oo
5.  Drainage                                  3,933,700
6.  paving                                    8,017,600
7.  Road Markings                               195,600
B.  Signs                                       474,300
9.  Electrical Installation                   2,024,000
10.  Signals                                     314,700
11.   Bridges                                 12,532,400
12.  other Structures                           2,829,500
13.  Services (Contract)                         796,500
Total                  41,932,300
Source: Freeman, Fox & Partners, May 1972
May 26, 1972



UBLE 5
MALAYSU
KUALA LUMPtR MURBA  TENSPORT PfJCT
ESTlT$MAD SCHEDUhZ OF DISBURSE3BTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Cumlmative Disbursement
and Quarter                                  at Md of Q er
1972/73
December 31, 1972                                   1,400
March 31, 1973                                      1,400
June 30, 1973                                       1,800
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                  2,750
December 31, 1973                                   3,&)O
March 31, 1974                                      5,100
June 30, 1974                                       6,400
197V/75
September 30, 1974                                  7,800
December 31, 1974                                   9,300
March 31, 1975                                     10s700
June 30, 1975                                      12,100
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                 13,200
December 31, 1975                                  14k300
March 31, 1976                                     14, 800
June 30, 1976                                      15,200
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                 15,200
December 31, 1976                                  16,000
May 26, 1972






NhASIA
KUALA LUWMUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PUBLIC WOBX9 DEPAITIENT
(West Malaysia)
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERA1                                                                           DEPUTY DIRLTR aNUNRAL
(DEVELOPMENT)                                                                              m(UoINERNG SERVICeS)
ARMED FORCES           ROADS            BUILDING         WATER SUPPLIES    EDUCATION WORKS                           HHCHANICAL                              ELEcrTRlICAL
WORKS DIVISION        DIVISION            DIVISION            DIVISION           DIVISION                               DIVrSrON                               DIVISION
I~ RJC   FEEA LAD1 ~1t~- -1                                                                                                                                       I
HIOHWAY        PROJECT        FEDERAL LAND        DESION    IMPLENENTATION            PROJECT MANAGER                          STORIS                          QUANTITY SURVEYrNG
PLANNING     COORDINATION       DEVELOPMENT       SECTION       SECTION                                                        DIVISION                              DIMVSION
UNIT          SECTION       PROJECT SECTION
MAIN CIVIL WORKS UNIT
ACCOUNTINa                  DESIr  AND
LAND ACQUISITION UNIT         DIVISION                 RESEARCH DIVISION
SERVICE RELOCATION UNIT
AUDrT AND ACCOUNTNOI
UNIT                                        DESION          SOIL RSSEARCH






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT IHPISMENTATION SCHIDCWLE
1972                        1973                         197 4                       1975                        1976
J F H A H J J AS O N D    J F M AN J J A S O N D         J F M A M J J A S O N D    JrNAMJJASOND    J F N A M J J A S O N D
I.   Construction
1. Detailed Engineering
of Project Works
2. Land Acquisition               *
3. Service Relocation                      gsu.amaaamaug,aa,a,a* 
h. Hain Construction                               asum.aam  s,.aaau,
II. Studies
1. Kuala Luspur Urban
Transport Policy and
Planning Studies                      ,,.aaea   uua   _
2. Study of Road Maintenance
Organiz ati on                             .. a.mmsa.     _ 
3.  Detailed Engineering of
Route 1
,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,, - preparation
- Execution






a0 ,
L                      e                          Q                          6                          ,.                        ,.                          X>
0~~~~~~~-






MAP 2
.~~~~r reoD 4   0 500                                                                                                    , o wo 1oxu, rakX                                  
1'0}o06,  30'                                                                                                                                                                 102°00'
3o30-
\   5XKuala Selangor                                                                         /
KLANG VALLEY REGION
FBderallighway                                                                           \S          /t
_K Vaffey Fqion- Bunft  y
........... .S"nai  ....    iKAALMUNl9 
I     Inte utmiwnl Arport
P-oposed Urbea Federal H4wv U wnff                                       INTERNATIONAL 4 RPORT
- ADiminictmt1ve OiettPioundariing Jay
:~~~~~~~~~~ :L., A  N  Gy>  
BufIt-up.Areew
--  IE=E5   C  Cu  tf    -~~~~~~~~~~~~wht41a~~~m                                               K      L As\ /   
MAILES
S TRZA I-T                                                                 ang 49<3                          a,tT2 pr;r  
~OF
MALA.CLCA                                                                                                                                                   Kaj g
\ - - rrs . . U L U  L AlT1., N 6 A 1TS US
Thez Eondrio oNee no *e eo= to ,tnt0
::RRIIORv 1972IBD30






MALAYSIA                         101 40'
KUALA LUMPUR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
URBAN FEDERAL HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT
Existing Main Roads
Other Proposed Roads
-3' 1 '    Railways                                         - 
-. River 
Proposed Urban Federal Highway Improvement
®   Intersection Numbers
Municipal or Toen Boundary                                                                    A
Built-up Areas
o_ .________                                          KUALA LUMPUR        -
I ALA                                       /                                                               ______
m@-bt' Ak' ;PET 
/- I  -ia XvJ!/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,d IfX
.Al  -92                                                                                                                          IRE3708R






S                                                    0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
..  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
1"  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
zJ.
Z                                 A   4/V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I- 
C4,'. z                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z0 



