The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4307-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF USt7O MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
December 1985 (average)
US$1.00 = Rs 15.98
Rs 1.00 = -US$0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CBU     -    completely built up
DFI     -    Development Finance Institution
GOP     -    Government of Pakistan
IDBP    -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IPS     -    Industrial Policy Statement
LC      -    Letter of Credit
NDFC    -    Nacional Development Finance Corporation
PICIC   -    Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation
PIDE    -    Pakistan Institute of Development Economics
POL     -    Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
SAL     -    Structural Adjustment Lending
WAPDA   -    Water and Power Development Authority
/a Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been
managed with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.



FOR OFFICA  USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                 US$70 million
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:        U/A
Project                 The loan would support the Government's reform program
Description:          in the industrial sector, especially the promotion
of exports, as outlined in the attached develop-
ment policy letter from the Government to the Bank
(Annex IV). The reform program is directed toward
improving exports and industrial efficiency
through increased exposure to international com-
petition and increased ease of entry and reliance
on market forces in domestic markets. The
Government' s action program emphasizes improvement
in incentives and financing for exports; further
liberalization of imports (especially in areas
which have potential for export); reductions in
the use of price controls and cost-plus pricing;
and the disinvestment of government holdings in a
number of public manufacturing enterprises and
improvements in the remaining ones through the
introduction of medium-term investment and finan-
cial planning.
In addition to export promotion, the loan supports
future trade reform through institutionalization
of the analysis of trade incentives by the newly
created Industrial Incentives Reform Cell in the
Ministry of Finance and through an "Industrial
Efficiency Study" which would prepare structural
reform programs in key industrial subsectors (i.e.
textiles, engineering, and chemicals) which would
lead to substantial long-term improvements in
industrial efficiency and export performance. The
study would assess the impact of such reform
programs on production, imports and tax revenues;
Thedoumntha a restiteddiotibution and may be used by ripents only in th perfonnance
| of their ofBcdutesIts contents may not othenrwe be disclosed without Wodd Bank authoriution.



and design financial and technical assistance
packages to aid the restructuring process.  It is
expected that the introduction of a-medium-term
trade reform-program would be supported by future
Bank industrial sector lending.
The loan would finance high priority imported
inputs for industry and hence for manufactured
exports. The principal risks in this loan are
that the pace of recovery in the world economy and
protectionism in the developed countries may delay
the realization of benefits from reforms supported
by this loan or that political circumstances may
force the Government to alter its economic
policies. These risks appear-minimal because of
the recent improvement in the outlook for the
world economy and because of the present
Government's commitment to maintain the direction
of economic policy.
Estimated Cost:         Loan expected to disburse completely within FY1987.
Disbursements:
Appraisal Report:       NIA
map:                    IBRD 16248R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE-PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A-PROPOSED EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.      I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
Ezport Development Loan of US$70 million to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan. The loan would-have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable-interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in
the previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural
sector, real CDP increased by 8.4Z, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added
in agriculture grew by 9.9Z and -a manufacturing by 8.6Z. Both fixed
investment and private investment rose by about 12Z. Improved
availability of agricultural comodities helped to reduce the rate of
inflation to 7.5% from 8.4Z in FY84. On the other hand, the budget
deteriorated markedly, national savings decreased, and the balance of
payments came under pressure. Covernment current revenues fell short of
the budgeted amount while expenditures substantially exceeded the budgeted
amounts. As a result, government borrowing from the domestic banking
system increased from 1.9Z of CDP in FY84 to 3.9% of GDP. Reflecting
largely the sharp drop in public savings, national savings fell from 12.8Z
to 11.2Z of CNP. Although the immediate growth prospects are good,
budgetary and balance of payments developments will need to be carefully
watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports
declined by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered
the effects of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore,
remittances declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in
FY85. According to recent projections, net migration is expected to
decline and thus remittances will be lower over the medium term. As a
result of the higher current deficit and low net capital flows, the
reserve drawdown reached US$960 million. Gross official gold and foreign
exchange reserves were US$1.2 billion at the end of FY85, which was equiv-
alent to 2 months of imports of goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the
economy, initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions



-2-
are now based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles.
Existing interest-based comitments have been honored and transactions
with foreign governments and financial institutions are not affected. It
is too early to determine with any certainty the potential costs of
Islamization. Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially
involve some costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will
depend on how the system is applied. To date, the Government has
proceeded cautiously, and new financing modes have been applied flexibly
and developments monitored closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consis-
tent with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2Z), manufac-
turing (10.4%), exports (11%), and private investment (6.7%), though below
Sixth Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and
very respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing
courntries. Growth during this period-coupled with increased remittances-
-benefited large segments of the population. Performance improved despite
a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30Z decline in
the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant expenditures for increased defense and refugee
assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan.  The overall budget defici; and
Government bank borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP
respectively, fell to 6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government
borrowing from banks dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained,
the growth of the money supply slowed down and inflationary pressures
lessened; inflation dropped from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period.
The improved fiscal performance was largely the result of expenditure
restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expansion in
current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace with
population growth, and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP, and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of GNP to 2% by the end
of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports oi goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures tO improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for



-3-
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private
sector were widened, most agricultural processing units were
denationalized, and sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange
rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured
exports, while import liberalization increased the availability of raw
materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate
the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve
policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural
and long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must
be introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need
to encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If
Pakistan is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major
infrastructure investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen
its neglected social base. The last has fared badly as a result of
resource constraints, as is reflected in Pakistan's social indicators,
which lag seriously behind those of other developing countries at com
parable levels of development. It will not be possible to increase public
investment and recurrent allocations without a major domestic resource
mobilization effort. Although Pakistan should give priority to reforming
indirect taxation through a broad-based sales tax, it should also rely
more on user charges, should curtail subsidies, and increase self-
financing by public enterprises. Given the continuing constrained outlook
for official assistance and the likelihood of lower remittance flows,
sustained improvements in both export expansion and efficient import
substitution will be necessary to support high growth with sustainable
external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be improved,
structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key sec-
tors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry
have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of
efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by
those of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification can be increased, institutional support must be
strengthened, appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the
core investment program identified and implemented. More effective
institutional support should be sought through improvements in the quality
and quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the
seed program requires more efficient seed multiplication and



-4-
dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants, and a greater
role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit also
needs to be improved to ensure that it actually reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs
need to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened.
Agricultural pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop approaches to pricing
should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently
used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is
needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorit-es.
Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the
supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by
rapid expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a
number of issues the Government must address if this performance is to
be sustained. High levels of protection have led to high cost, low
quality domestic production both by raising input prices and by reducing
the demand for new technology to raise productivity and improve product
quality. If Pakistan is to increase and diversify its manufactured export
base and encourage efficient import substitution, industrial incentives
must be rationalized to reduce both the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. The objective here is to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector by exposing protected producers to greater foreign
competition and to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the present
incentives. In addition, the Government should reform the regulations
affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing in order to improve
competition among domestic firms. It should limit sanctioning to a few
cases of strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the
private sector, which is better able to assess investment opportunities.
Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of key private and public
manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient incentives to mini-
mize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be replaced by market-
oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand conditions and
provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy
sector pertain to three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b)
pricing; (c) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the
Government has formulated a least-cost development plan for the period
1986-2005 and has outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion
consisting of high priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to
FY88. Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints and persist-
ent power shortages, the Government is also undertaking a number of
measures including tariff increases to ensure that a large portion of this



-5-
investment program would be financed from WAPDA's self-generated
resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries has been
adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private sector
exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low to
encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government
policy has been to progressively increase consumer prices of gas in order
to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased
the average gas price by over 50Z. Assisted by domestic price increases
and lower international prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has
been realized. The Government should continue the policy of gradually
adjusting gas prices with a view to reaching full parity as early as
possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the long-run
marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure
the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but
also to mobilize tne substantial additional funds required by the power
investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue to strengthen energy planning and policy
coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development
expenditurps, and increased allocations for energy, agriculture,
irrigation, and the social sectors. Although the size and composition of
the Plan are appropriate, development expenditures during the first two
years of the Plan have been 8.5Z lower than the amounts projected because
of insufficient domestic resources. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health, and agriculture have
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a predefined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; thus too many projects have been initiated, and projects
that should receive priority are underfunded. To address this issue, the
Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority Investment Program
(FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adoption of a rolling
medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and priorities are
being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable. The program
will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be given
priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have
improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing
and commercial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public



-6-
debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of
which US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan
consortium, US$1.2 billion to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral
agencies, and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. At the
same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external public indebted-
ness was 16.2%, and in external debt service it was 8.0%. According to
Bank projections, if recent policy improvements are sustained and struc-
tural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service will remain about 20%
during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher levels of
commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA comnit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately
US$3.7 billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II
contains a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of
total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and
irrigation; 28Z for industry, including import program credits; 18Z For
transport, telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for
energy, including power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social
programs in education, population, and urban development; and 5% for
structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors-energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full
range of traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly
deployed-from sector work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and
project-based lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The
Bank Group's lending program comprises two components, the larger of which
supports specific high-priority investments in productive sectors and
physical and social infrastructure. The smaller but nonetheless strategic
component focuses on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-quality economic and
sector work. The program includes a series of technical assistance
credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for policy



-7-
reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,
the Bank Croup tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of the Government's structural adjustment program and
aid requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and
help attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional
sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that the main objective of the
agricultural strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be
to increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the
efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.
Among the issues being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation
projects and projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input
and output prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance,
cost recovery, and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the
sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs,
research, and extension and have included institution-building components.
Overall, progress in agriculture has been satisfactory.
19.     The Bank's strategy in industry is discussed in Part III, C.  As
a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in
1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, the Bank's lending program in
energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to expand the
domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and
other methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts
to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has
helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and
Power Development Authority to finance their power generation and trans-
mission programs. The construction of the Nangla and Tarbela dams under
the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership
role, has also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector
strategy. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and
development program and has assisted in developing the extensive gas
transmission system. Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering
studies and technical assistance, have been undertaken to support coal
exploration, energy audits, and oil refining. Despite much progress,
however, the Bank wilL need to continue participating in institution
building and help the Ccvernment mobilize adequate funds for energy
investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private sector
participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions



-8-
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure
is now considered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large
measure because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance
between new investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of
existipg investments needs greater attention.
21.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth
rate of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally
formidable development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has sup-
ported the Government's programs in education through five credits
designed to upgrade primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and
agricultural education as well as middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has been and will
continue to be on the lower end of the education spectrum (primary,
technical, and nonformal education). A first population project designed
to expand the demand for population control services was approved in FY83.
Furthermore, the Bank has financed four projects in the urban and water
supply sector. Besides providing urban services, these operations are
designed to improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery; plan-
ning and efficiency of resource utilization; and urban management, espe-
cially at the provincial and municipal levels.
22.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Government reform program for the energy sector and assists
in the implementation of a core investment program for the sector.
Continuing support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned
under other sector loans in the next few years.
23.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects
have experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures
for project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid rurnover of managerial and
technical staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to
budgetary constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
24.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and
conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector, and for
industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway con-
struction and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban develop-



ment and water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural
adjustment in industry and agriculture are being discussed with the
Government. Where successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella
for projects in those sectors. To help the Government finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects having low foreign exchange
component, the Bank Group is financing some local expenditures on a case-
by-case basis.
25.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on develop-
ment strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and
the coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment
in the three key sectors, and the development of the physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Recent Industrial and Manufactured Exports Performance
26.     Since 1978, Pakistan's industrial sector has performed quite well.
Industrial value added grew at a average of about 10% p.a. and rapid
growth was achieved across a wide spectrum of subsectors, covering both
large-and small-scale industry. Over the same period, private investment
in manufacturing grew at aoout 16Z p.a.; at first, such growth was not
sufficient to offset the continued decline in public sector investment in
manufacturing but since FY1981-82 there has been a sharp upward trend in
total manufacturing investment. Pakistan has now developed a more diver-
sified industrial sector as compared with a decade ago. The share of
consumer goods in manufacturing value added has been consistently falling
while those of intermediate and capital goods have been rising. The share
of manufacturing value added emanating from textiles has been halved from
over 30% to just over 15Z while that of other subsectors relying heavily
on agricultural inputs rose from a quarter to a third. The structural
changes in the remaining industrial subsectors were less pronounced, but
other sectors showing above average growth rates were petroleum products,
industrial and other chemicals, iron and steel, and non-metallic mineral
products.
27.     Manufactured exports performed quite well from FY1977-78 to
FY1982-83, growing at 13% p.a. in real terms. They expanded their share
in total merchandise exports from 50% to 57% while the share of primary
commodities and semi-manufactured products have been falling. The cem-
modity composition of manufactured exports, however, continues to show a
high level of concentration.   Textiles and clothing and leather products
together (which are based an local cotton and hides and skins inputs)
still account for more than four fifths of aLl manufactured exports. It
is non-traditional exports (e.g. surgical instruments, cutlery, sporting
goods, and some engineering goods) which have displayed the most rapid



-10-
growth rates in recent years. Past experience has shown that Pakistan's
exports are very responsive to incentives. Studies by the IMF and World
Bank staff show a response of unit elasticity (an equal proportional
response) between export volume and the real effective exchange rate with
a lag of about six months. Other studies have demonstrated a strong
positive response to other incentives (e.g. rebates, tax relief) in addi-
tion to the exchange rate. The rapid export expansion between FY1977-78
and FY1982-83 coincided with improvements in the export regime, first in
the form of rebates of duties/taxes on inputs and the compensatory rebate
and later (January 1982) in the form of delinkage of the rupee from the US
dollar and subsequent devaluation.
28.     During FY1983-84 and FY1984-85, manufactured exports have declined
in volume terms. There are a number of factors linked to this decline: a
decline in the 1984 cotton crop, a large drop in demand from Middle
Eastern markets, a substantial reduction in domestic surpluses in pig iron
and POL by-products coupled with an appreciation of the rupee through
mid-FY1984-85 which reduced Pakistan's external competitiveness. The
Government has responded to the fall off in export performance mainly
through adjustments in exchange rate but also with increases in the rates
and coverage of export rebates and a large countertrade agreement with
Iran, and exports grew by 282 during the first half of FY1985-86 as com-
pared with a similar period the previous year.
B. Recent Industrial Policies
Reforms During the Fifth Plan (FY1978179-1982/83)
29.    Changes in government policies since 1977 have contributed to
improved long-term industrial performance. Earlier policies of
nationalization, tight restrictions on private investment and rapid expan-
sion of public manufacturing were reversed and virtually all industrial
subsectors opened to the private sector. Most agricultural processing
units and some industrial units were denationalized, while legal
safeguards were provided to protect private industry against arbitrary
government acquisition. A wide range of incentives (including tax
holidays, concessionary export credit, and partial import duty drawbacks
and tax relief for exporters) were introduced or improved.
30.     Significant progress in trade and exchange rate policies were also
made within the context of the Extended Fund Facility (November 1980-Novem-
ber 1983). A program of phased import liberalization substantially
reduced the share of industry protected by import prohibitions. The most
important changes were a shift from a positive (permitted imports) to a
negative (banned imports) list and the liberalization of a large number of
items. Prohibitions on a large number of raw materials and capital goods
imports were removed, as were a number of other restrictions (e.g.
restricting imports to government agencies, purchases from specified
countries). This liberalization reduced the proportion of value added in



-11-
industry protected by prohibitions from 442 to about 28X and the share of
industrial value added protected by major non-tariff barriers from over
652 to about 402. After a decade of having been fixed with respect to the
US dollar, the rupee was delinked in January 1982 and managed against a
basket of currencies of Pakistan's major trading partners with a view
toward maintaining international competitiveness. The real depreciation
of about 202 over the following 18 months played an important role in the
solid performance of manufactured exports through FY1982-83.
Early Sixth Plan Experience
31.     During the first two years of the Sixth Plan (1983/84-1987/88),
the pace of industrial reform has accelerated. In FY1984/85, a start was
made on tariff reforms, a new institution for analyzing industrial reforms
created, and a new Industrial Policy Statement issued. The Government's
first step toward trade incentive rationalization based upon the findings
of the PIDE studyl/ was the introduction of tariff/indirect tax changes in
more than two dozen industrial subsectors. The most significant effects
were to raise the effective protective levels in three important and
relatively underprotected industrial subsectors-cement, pharmaceuticals,
and mechanical engineering-by raising tariffs on outputs and/or lowering
tariffs on inputs. In the 1984-85 Import Policy Order, ten relatively
minor items were removed from the negative list, reductions were made in
the restricted lists and the ceilings for those items still subject to
quantitative limitations were modestly increased.
32.     The FY1984-85 Budget speech also announced the establishment of
the Industrial Incentives Reform Cell (IIRC) in the Ministry of Finance
as a permanent institution responsible for analyzing and preparing trade
incentives reform. The Cell would (a) investigate fiscal anomalies raised
by industrialists and recommend suitable corrections; (b) undertake cost
studies of industrial subsectors to assist in recomendations for
rationalizing incentives; and (c) carry out studies/surveys regarding
protection for various industrial subsectors in order to provide
appropriate analytical support for changes in tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The creation of the Cell represents an important step
forward in providing for improved coordination in industrial sector
analysis and policy formulation.
33.    The June 1984 Industrial Policy Statement (IPS), the first since
1959, reaffirmed the Government's commitment to a mixed economy in which
the private sector is the leading engine of growth, introduced some impor-
tant changes in industrial sanctioning guidelines, and expressed the
Government's intention to introduce an incentive system which encourages
l/ Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE), The Structure of
Protection in Pakistan (IslamAbad, 1984).



-12-
increased private investment and private and public sector efficiency.
Public industrial investment would be generally limited to selective
balancing and modernization in those subsectors where it is already
present and would not preclude private sector involvement in these areas.
The public sector would act as investor of last resort and would consider
large capital intensive projects where the private sector is reluctant to
invest but mainly on a joint venture basis. The IPS significantly raised
the investment sanctioning limits from Rs 60 million to Rs 300 million in
terms of project size and from Rs 30 million to Rs 50 million in terms of
foreign exchange requirements.l/ Projects below these limits will no
longer require a sanction unless they fall under the category of
"specified industries"2/ in which case, sanctions are required regardless
of the size of the investment. The IPS also confirmed the Government's
comitment to a rationaLization of the tariff structure and the continua-
tion of a realistic exchange rate policy. Other fiscal incentives (mainly
tax holidays and duty free imports to encourage investments in specified
subsectors or locations) would be continued and reviewed periodically.
34.     The first two years of the Sixth Plan also built upon improvements
in public manufacturing-enterprise performance which had been obtained
through increased delegation of decision-making authority to the
enterprise level on personnel matters, investments, and the use of credit
as well as the introduction of a more flexible and competitive salary
structure. In FY1983-84, the Government introduced the "public sector
signalling system", which is being implemented by the Export Advisory Cell
under the Ministry of Production, and consists of a management information
system, a set of annual performance evaluation criteria, and a bonus
system for the compensation of managers according to actual performance.
The introduction of the system is a major step forward in public sector
management siLnce it establishes the principle that the performance of
public sector enterprises can be evaluated and that managers should be
rewarded according to performance. In FY1983-84, 41 out of 65 enterprises
under the Ministry of Production participated and in FY1984-85, 56 units
out of 69.
35.     Followirg elections and the formation of a new government in the
spring of 1985, the pace and potentiaL for industrial reform has picked up
1/   The announcement in the IPS was the latest in a series of steps
which have raised the sanctioning limits from Rs 20 million in terms
of total project size and Rs 10 million in terms of foreign exchange
content since 1981.
2/ For example, cases with religious or defense considerations, and
industries of national importance and those involving second-hand
machinery, high import content, cost-plus pricing arrangements, dele-
tion programs, or foreign participation.



-13-
further. The overall thrust of these reforms continues to be to encourage
industry to become more efficient and outward looking through greater
deregulation, improved incentives for exports and liberalization of
imported inputs, and tax incentives to encourage equity finance. A number
of actions have already been taken and the promise of more within the next
few months is indicated by the appointment of Commissions to investigate
the scope for deregulation (para. 64), and tax and tariff reform
(para. 57) and the setting up of an interministerial committee to guide
disinvestment in public enterprises (para. 67). Among the industrial
reforms taken since April 1985, the following are the most important: (a)
cement: a significant modification of cost plus pricing arrangements on
sale of cement; (b) textiles: (i) elimination of bans on imports of
textile machinery and reduction of the tariff from 85Z to 5OZ; (ii) duty
free imports of shuttleless and widewidth looms; and (iii) reductions of
duties on man-made fibers from the equivalent of about 140% to 120%; (c)
steel: a decision to limit the effects of high cost domestic steel on
users by pricing various steel products at less than landed cost (i.e.
c.i.f. plus tariff) and by giving exporters of products using steel
directly a rebate of the difference between the domestic price and the
c.i.f. price; (d) export incentives: the rates and coverage of the com-
pensatory rebate system have been expanded, affecting such exports as
textiles, leather goods and fresh and canned fruits. The concessional
rate for export credit was raised from 2.5Z to 6% (thus reducing the
subsidy on such credit) and rates established for credit on export of
domestically produced machinery at 6% pre-shipment and 7% post-shipment
with 12.5 years maturity; (e) tariffs and import bans:  tariffs have been
reduced on a number of important intermediate and capital goods such as
tinplate, locks, computers and software, electronic components, and com-
ponents and raw materials for electrical appliances; tariff reductions
from 160% to 60% were also introduced on a number of domestic appliances
(e.g. toasters, mincers, grinders, juicers, and ovens). In addition to
textile machinery (noted above), import prohibitions were eliminated for
CBU tractors of 7-15 HP and component parts for trailers over 20 tons
(public sector assembly only). These movements toward liberalization were
at least in part offset by a 5% import surcharge, the proceeds of which
would be used for education projects. (f) taxation incentives: for
companies listed on the stock exchange, the corporate tax rate has been
reduced from 50% to 40% and receipts of their dividend payments by
shareholders has been exempted from the personal income tax.
36.     In summary, in recent years there have been consistent improve-
ments in industrial policy: e.g. better incentives for manufactured
exports and more flexible exchange rate management; progress in liberaliz-
ing imports; some denationalization coupled with an improved environment
and incentives for private sector participation; a loosening of investment
sanctioning and elimination of cost-plus pricing arrangements in a couple
of key subsectors; and improved management of public manufacturing
enterprises. Nonetheless progress has been uneven and more remains to be
done. For example, export incentives policy has relied too heavily on ad



-14-
hoc adjustments in the exchange rate or tax relief whenever exports ran
into difficulty. Import barriers remain very high and uneven, providing
little incentive for the adoption of new technology to reduce costs or
improve product quality and creating widely differential incentives for
the production of various products. Reform of tariffs and import restric-
tions have tended to concentrate on intermediate and capital goods thus
increasing effective protection levels in final goods sectors; reliance on
import surcharges for revenue purposes shelter domestic industry from
competition. Regulation of entry and prices in a number of industrial
subsectors remains excessive. Thus, there are several areas of concern in
industrial policy that the Government must address if the momentum of
industrial development is to be maintained and industrial competitiveness
increased. These have been and will remain central in our dialogue with
Government in the course of our economic and sector work and the prepara-
tion of policy based lending operations in industry. The key areas
comprise:
-  a system of trade incentives that (even with partial drawbacks
and concessional financing for exports) still leaves production
for the domestic market considerably more profitable than
exports;
-  an external trade incentives system that has a widely differen-
tiated protective impact across subsectors and encourages the
expansion of inefficient industries;
-  an investment sanctioning system for domestic and foreign
investment which, despite the liberalization in recent years,
maintains unneeded and cumbersome government controls which
discourage entry, investments and increased competition;
-  the existence of cost-plus/fixed rate of return pricing arran-
gements in a number of key subsectors (e.g. fertilizers,
vegetable ghee) which are a disincentive to efficient produc-
tion and location and to capital accumulation; and
- the need to encourage further improvements in the efficiency of
public manufacturing enterprises through the continued applica-
tion of the "signalling system", the introduction of medium-
term corporate planning, and the further extension of
managerial autonomy.
C. Role of the Bank in the Industrial Sector
37.     The Bank's strategy in industry is essentially two-pronged.
Policy-based lending supports: (a) reform of the trade incentive system
with emphasis on putting manufactured exports on a free-trade basis and
import liberalization; (b) deregulation of government controls, including
the relaxation of investment controls and use of cost-plus pricing



-15-
arrangements; and (c) continued improvements in the efficiency of public
manufacturing enterprises. Project-based lending features industrial
finance to support GOP's efforts to revitalize the private sector as well
as improve the efficiency of provision of financial services and a series
of rehabilitation projects focussing on public sector enterprises in heavy
industry.
38.     Until 1984, the Bank's policy was to deal with the three DFIs
(i.e. IDBP, NDFC, and PICIC) separately because of their clearly defined
sales and market segmentation. As a result of institutional changes,
constraints on IDBP and PICIC, the creation of new DFIs, and GOP instruc-
tions to the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) to increase their
industrial term lending, the client base of all financial institutions
began to overlap considerably and subsequent Bank lending has focussed on
the entire financial system. The first Industrial Investment Credit (Loan
2380/Credit 1439-PAK; February 27, 1984), and the recently approved Second
Industrial Investment Credit (Loan 2648/Credit 1646-PAK; February 12,
1986) have provided industrial financing through both DFIs and NCBs, and
have been accompanied by measures to increase efficiency and competition
and, with help from IFC, to improve non-bank capital markets. A similar
approach has been followed in the Small Scale Industries Project (Credit
1499-PAK of July 10, 1984) where IDBP acts as a refinancing agent for
funds channelled through commercial banks. Our lending program for public
enterprise heavy industry projects is focussed in areas such as
fertilizers, cement and engineering where there are good prospects for
improvement in efficiency through the restructuring of investment and
through pricing and management reforms.
39.     Under the industry component of the Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit (Loan 2166/Credit 1255-PAK of June 23, 1982), GOP agreed to
(a) review regulatory constraints on industry with a view toward eliminat-
ing all unnecessary regulations; (b) implement a system for monitoring and
evaluating the performance of public enterprises and providing management
with incentives for improved performance; and (c) complete a study of
industrial trade incentives. While progress in the first two areas was
quite satisfactory, that in the last one was less so. The incentives
study generated reasonable estimates of the relative incentives given to
export production versus import substitution and to various industrial
subsectors, but GOP was disappointed that the study provided no explicit
guidelines on how tariffs, indirect taxes and import prohibitions ought to
be changed and no indications of how such changes might effect production,
employment, tax revenues and imports. The proposed Export Development
Loan would further the three industrial sector policy themes of the SAL,
with increased emphasis on appropriate incentives and institutions to
support exports.



-16-
PART IV - THE ACTION PROGRAM TO BE SUPPORTED BY
THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
40.    As a matter of strategy and policy, Pakistan's industrial develop-
ment has been built mainly around the domestic market and this is expected
to continue. Nonetheless, manufactured exports (which amount to about 60%
of total exports) have played a significant role in the dynamism of the
industrial sector in recent years; appropriate attention to the relative
incentives for exports versus import substitution will be crucial to
maintaining and increasing that dynamism in the future. Growth in
manufactured exports is crucial if the heavy dependence of the balance of
payments on remittances is to be reduced. Such growth would also improve
industrial efficiency through the introduction of new product designs and
new production techniques, thus complementing the increase in industrial
efficiency sought from reduced protection and increased domestic
competition.
41.     The Government's strategy for improving the efficiency of the
industrial sector has short- and medium-term dimensions. In the short
term, the strategy would capitalize on the proven responsiveness of
Pakistani exporters to improvements in the export regime by focussing on
export incentives, procedures, and institutions. An appropriate exchange
rate, access to imported inputs, and coverage of export credit and credit
guarantees would all be emphasized. Actions on trade liberalization would
be limited mainly to those that are directly supportive of efforts to
improve export performance. The competitiveness of domestic industry
would also be enhanced by modifications in cost-plus pricing,
privatization, and improvements in the management of public manufacturing
enterprises. Actions in these areas would form part of the short-term
program. The Government also recognizes that, in the medium term, actions
to reform prohibitions, restrictions and tariffs on imports will be
equally important for increased industrial efficiency through exposure to
foreign competition. The reforms in protection, in some cases, would need
to be accompanied by rehabilitation programs designed to assist industries
to adjust to the shock of increased foreign and domestic competition.
Preparation of such a medium-term reform and rehabilitation program would
be carried out during the next 12-18 months.
42.     The thrust of the Government's recent policy reform efforts, its
intentions for FY1986-87, and the overall policy framework within which
they are being undertaken is provided in the Finance Minister's Letter of
Development Policy in Annex IV and is summarized in matrix form in
Annex V. The program presented below covers steps taken and anticipated
in this fiscal year leading to the FY1986-87 budget. It also covers those
measures intended to position Government to continue the reform program in
FY1987-88 and beyond. The program will enable the Government to maintain
the momentum of policy reform while the work of the Deregulation and Tax
Commissions is being completed and recommendations considered for
implementation. It is our expectation that the next policy based lending



-17-
operation, an Industrial Sector Loan, will focus upon the reform of trade
incentives, tariffs, and import prohibitions.
43.     The presentation of the Government's program in the next two
sections is divided into: (a) externally-oriented industrial policies
which emphasize support for manufactured exports through exchange rate
policy, liberalization of imported inputs into exports and access by
exporters to duty/tax free inputs, expanded coverage of export credit, and
improvements in support institutions; and (b) domestically oriented
industrial policies which emphasize improvements in efficiency through
increased competition (eased entry and elimination of price
regulation/controls), disinvestment, and improved management in
(remaining) public manufacturing enterprises.
Externally-oriented Industrial Policies
44.     Exchange Rate.  Since delinkage from the US dollar in January
1982, it has been the policy of the Government to manage the rupee against
a basket of Pakistan's major trading partners in such a way as to maintain
international competitiveness. Following the 13% real effective deprecia-
tion between January 1982 and June 1983, the rupee tended to appreciate
somewhat mainly against the currencies of Pakistan's European trading
partners, in part because of the Government's continued use of a basket
too heavily weighted in dollars and sharp movements of the European cur-
rencies against the dollar. This real appreciation accounts in part for
the stagnation in manufactured exports during FY1983-84 and FY1984-85.
However, the Government has decided upon a more appropriate weighted
basket of currencies and has moved firmly to devalue the currency 211
between February and December 1985 bringing the exchange to a level some
29% below the December 1981 rate (in real effective terms). During the
course of preparing and negotiating this loan, Government autherities have
reaffirmed their strong commitment to keeping the exchange rate
compeLitive, to monitoring performance, and to making further adjustments
as necessary if export volumes and net foreign exchange reserves do not
continue to expand appropriately.
45.     Compensatory Rebates.  Pakistan offers "compensatory rebates" at
rates ranging from 5Z to 12.5% of export f.o.b. value on some 22 (mostly
semi-manufactured and manufactured) products, with higher rates intended
for products with higher value added. Ostensibly, such rebates are to
compensate exporters for a number of other indirect taxes, fees, and
charges not covered by the "standard rebate" (see para. 46), but in prac-
tice the rates are not related to such costs and have been used as a
direct encouragement to exports. Introduced in 1978, the compensatory
rebates have played an important role in the good performance of manufac-
tured exports in the ensuring years. However, the system has the disad-
vantage of providing substantially differentiated incentives for different
types of exports, of being viewed as an export subsidy by a number of
importing countries, and of encouraging the over-invoicing of exports.



-18-
GOP has stated its intention of phasing out the compensatory rebate system
as exporters' access is improved to imported inputs at duty/tax free
prices and would aupport this process by appropriate adjustments in the
exchange rate to ensure that appropriate incentives for exports are
maintained. The elimination of the incentives provided by compensatory
rebates makes it all the more important that various schemes to provide
imported inputs at duty free prices are functioning properly if exports
are not to be disadvantaged.
46.     Duty/Tax Free Regime for Manufactured Exports.  Pakistan offers a
number of other incentives for manufactured exports. All suffer from
defects which limit Pakistani exporters' access to imported inputs (and
domestically made inputs) at world prices and hence limit their ability to
compete in international markets. Drawbacks (called "standard rebates")
of tariffs, excises and sales taxes are given on inputs into exports
whether imported or purchased domestically. The standard rebate system
now covers some 216 listed export items but more than double that number
are covered through rates applicable to specific exporters. While the
standard rebate system originally served its purpose well, rates have been
changed very infrequently and have drifted increasingly out of line due to
changes in prices, input-output coefficients, and tariff and indizect tax
laws. Changes in old rates, and the establishment of new rates on new
products, take too long. Moreover, exporters complain of long delays in
payment of standard rebates by government after goods have been shipped
because payments are made only after complete customs verification.
47.     Only two schemes presently exist that allow for duty-free imported
inputs: a "Temporary Import Scheme" which allows the importation of parts
and accessories which are clearly identifiable in the final exported
products and a bonded manufacturing system for manufacturers producing
wholly or primarily for export. Neither scheme is widely used, the former
because the concept of identifiability is very narrowly defined to items
that can easily be seen and counted by customs officials, and the latter
because of elaborate and costly control procedures at the manufacturing
premises and government requirements for bonds that are needlessly large
relative to the possible amounts of duty and taxes at risk. All of the
above schemes also suffer from an additional defect: they apply only to
final or direct exporters and not to indirect exporters (i.e. those
producing inputs into exports). This puts domestic producers of inputs at
a disadvantage relative to imported inputs and constrains the backward
linkages generated by exports.
48.     As a part of this loan, it has been agreed that the Government
would pursue its objective of putting direct and indirect exporters on a
free trade basis mainly through an improvement in the standard rebate
system and the introduction of an open bonded manufacturing system. There
are three key elements in the Government's program for these two schemes:
(a) the establishment of an effective system for regularly estimating and
revising physical input-output coefficients for export products (for both



-19-
domestic and foreign inputs); (b) the identification and introduction of
appropriate instruments for extending incentives to indirect exporters;
and (c) the creation of appropriate institutional mechanisms to achieve
these purposes.
49.     Under the Export Development Loan, the Government would undertake
a systematic updating of the standard rebate rates taking account of the
changes in input-output relationships, tariff/tax rates, and input and
output prices that have taken place since the rates were established; and
the rate fixation and claims checking process would be computerized. An
assurance has been obtained that this process would be completed by
March 31, 1987 and that, thereafter, standard rebates would be updated on
a continuous basis. The proposed "open bonded manufacturing system" would
lift controls from physical procedures and checks at the manufacturing
level (as is the case with the present "bonded manufacturing" system) to a
Central Control office within the Customs Department. Direct and indirect
exporters would have access to duty/tax free inputs and control would be
maintained through standard physical input-output coefficients and records
concerning each exporter's imports of inputs and product exported main-
tained at the Central Control office. An assurance has been obtained that
this new system would be initiated in the existing 70-80 bonded manufac-
turing warehouses by March 31, 1987, and extended to other exporters
the-eafter. A work group consisting of Customs and Central Board of
Revenue staff, assisted by consultants, would guide the implementation of
revisions in the standard rebate system and the introduction of an open
bonded uunufacturing system. A work program for this group and terms of
reference for the consultants were discussed and agreed with GOP during
negotiations. An informal work group has already been organized and a
formal group would be established following the approval of this loan.
Appropriate consultants have been identified and their appointment is
expected shortly. It is envisaged that both the standard rebate program
and the open bonded manufacturing system will be necessary partly because
the extension of the latter to cover a significant proportion of
Pakistan's manufacturing export industries will take time but more impor-
tantly because it would not be feasible to extend the open bonded manufac-
turing system to commercial exporters or to small exporters with too few
exports to warrant inclusion. It is also expected that the system to be
implemented in Pakistan will be relatively simple with a standard input-
output coefficient applied to all firms producing the same or similar
products in contrast to the administratively more complex system of firm-
specific coefficients that is used in some other countries.
50.     In order to provide better incentives for manufactured exports,
the Government has announced that domestic manufacturers/assemblers of air
conditioners, refrigerators, deep freezers, and washing machines would be
allowed to export to duty free shops in Pakistan where returning overseas
Pakistanis are allowed to purchase products using foreign exchange; such
sales will be treated as exports and hence subject to the same
concessions/duty drawbacks as sales abroad. In the context of the work



-20-
programs for standard rebate revision and the introduction of open bonded
manufacturing, the Government is considering a number of further changes
to encourage exports: (a) payment of standard rebates upon presentation
of satisfactory evidence of shipment (i.e. before the completion of
Customs verification procedures as is presently the case) in order to
minimize delays in payment; (b) broadening the scope of the Temporary
Import Scheme by loosening the concept of identifiability to include
inputs which are less readily visible but which could be located and
measured/counted by customs if necessary for verification; and (c) reduc-
tions in the costs of bonding imported inputs through elimination of
redundant bonds, reductions in bond requirements and the introduction of
a charge free lien on the goods to the benefit of the Customs Department
(i.e. in the event of non-payment of duties/taxes Customs would have the
right to seize goods in the amount owed plus a penalty).
51.     Export Financing.  Pakistan's system of export credit has expanded
rapidly and the percentage of eligible exports financed has increased
significantly. In June 1985, the Government introduced a number of
changes. The maximum loan period under various schemes was placed at a
uniform 150 days and the maximum rate of interest was raised from 2.5% to
6% (with the State Bank of Pakistan sharing in 50Z of the returns in the
case of refinancing). These changes have created a loan maturity which
appears appropriate in view of typical export production/marketing cycles,
and the rise in interest rates has reduced the possibilities for abuses
inherent in inexpensive credit. Nonetheless, the present export credit
system suffers from two defects: it does not provide support for indirect
exporters and its coverage of large exporters and traditional exports is
decidedly better than for smaller exporters or exporters of non-
traditional products. To assist indirect exporters, the Government would
study the possibility of providing export credit loans in three parts:
(a) a domestic letter of credit issued by the exporter's bank for domesti-
cally supplied inputs; (b) a letter of credit issued by the same bank for
imported inputs; and (c) a working capital loan corresponding to the
manufacturer/exporter's value added. The proposed system would improve
control over export credit, further limiting the possibilities for abuse,
and the domestic LC would be used to identify indirect exporters who would
become eligible for export credit. In conjunction with the revised rebate
system based on physical coefficients, the domestic LC system would also
enable the Government to make other export incentives available to
indirect exporters as well. The Government would also review the col-
lateral requirements demanded by commercial banks and the functioning of
the export credit guarantee systems to see whether improvements are pos-
sible which would expand the coverage of smaller exporters and non-
traditional exports. During negotiations it was agreed that the review of
the domestic LC system, collateral requirements practices of commercial
banks' and the coverage of export credit would be conducted by the State
Bank of Pakistan and completed by March 31, 1987; upon completion, the
reviews would be discussed by the Government and the Bank and a timetable
established for implementing measures to extend credit (and other



-21-
incentives) to indirect exporters and for expanding coverage of the export
credit system to small and non-traditional exporters.
52.     Institutions to Support Exports.  To support the establishment of
a duty free regime for direct and indirect exporters, the Government has
given assurances that it would create and adequately staff a technical
unit by December 31, 1986 (including engineers, economists, financial
analysts and others familiar with customs procedures) to review, estimate
and continuously update physical input-output coefficients for all
manufactured exports. The work of this unit would provide essential
information for the administration of standard rebates, open bonded
manufacturing and the raw materials replenishment scheme (a scheme whereby
banned inputs are allowed for use in producing exports). Since the work
of the unit cuts across that presently performed by several government
ministries or agencies (e.g. the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, the
Customs Department), its location would need to be decided.
53.     The Government has set up an Export Action Group (chaired by the
Minister of Commerce) to review performance in leather goods, carpets,
garments, and fruits and vegetables, identify constraints and make recom-
mendations that would lead to sizeable increases in exports. On the
recommendations of this Group, a tax holiday has already been granted to
leather garments and the maturity for export credit for carpets extended.
The Government plans to expand the coverage of the Group to other products
and to institute quarterly meetings with relevant export associations..
The Government recognizes the importance of appropriate statistical infor-
mation to future decisionmaking on export policy and intends to set up
an "'export information system" in the State Bank of Pakistan where much of
the relevant data is already collected. During negotiations it was agreed
that the State Bank of Pakistan, assisted by consultants, would com-
puterize its data base thus increasing the availability of information on
the number of exporters, size of export orders, methods of financing, etc.
and complementing data on value, volume and country of destination which
is already available.
54.     GOP recognizes the need for further progress in the area of export
quality control. Pakistan's manufactured exports have, in general, a
reputation for poor quality and are sold at low prices compared to similar
exports by competing countries. Private sector industry associations have
not yet begun to take actions to improve standards in their industrial
subsectors. The Pakistan Standards Institute, established in 1958, has
responsibility for compulsory certification of 42 export items and has
laid down about 1,700 national standards. Attention to standards,
however, is not widespread in part because adherence is voluntary apart
from the export items for which certification is required. There is,
therefore, a need to enlist greater private sector efforts in improving
quality control, and to increase the coordination between the government
and private sector on setting and enforcing standards. Experience in
other countries has shown that, as an alternative to mandatory government



-22-
pre-shipment inspection, encouraging firms to improve quality during
manufacturing and thus become eligible for using internationally recog-
nized quality marks is a more effective means for establishing a reputa-
tion for producing quality products and alleviating foreign buyers'
doubts. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government,
assisted by consultants, would examine policies in the area of export
quality control, in order to put forward a plan of action, by March 31,
1987 for improving the quality of manufactured products. This plan would
be discussed with the Bank and implemented according to an agreed
timetable.
55.     Prohibitions, Restrictions and Tariffs on Imports.  Many of
PakistanTs industries are already mature but need to be exposed to inter-
national competition to improve their capabilities and performance. The
PIDE study, which analyzed the protective environment in 1981, shows a
wide range of effective protection with a number of important highly
protected industries (e.g. several textiles subsectors, paper and
paperboard, sporting goods), other industries with negative value added
(e.g. cotton weaving, leather products, madeup textiles and sewing
machines), and a small but important group of industries with low or even
negative protection (e.g. cement, several engineering products, and surgi-
cal instruments). While changes in tariffs and prohibitions since the
period covered by the study have undoubtedly changed the numbers (see
paras. 30 and 35), the broad picture remains the same. Pakistan continues
to have a great many prohibitions and high tariffs on imports, especially
on consumer goods, but also on producer goods competitive with goods made
domestically. Other restrictions exist as well; for example, many goods
(most of them producer goods) can only be imported from a specified source
under a bilateral agreement, some goods only by the public sector, and
others only by specified industries.
56.     The high degree of protection is an obstacle to improvements in
efficiency and in product quality in man-/ existing industries. In
addition, the relatively higher incentives given to sales in the domestic
market versus sales abroad favors import substitution over exports. Most
of Pakistan's mature industries would benefit from exposure to increased
international competition which would encourage reductions in cost and
improvements in product quality. There is thus a need for a broad-based
incentives reform involving a further substantial reduction in the number
of import prohibitions and in tariff rates so as to reduce the average
level of effective protection, narrow its range and alter relative incen-
tives between exports and the domestic market. Reforming prohibitions and
high tariffs simultaneously may not be possible, however, since most of
the prohibited goods also carry high tariffs, typically 120% to 200% for
consumer goods and 85% to 150% or more for producer goods. Under these
circumstances, it would be better to remove prohibitions first, then
reduce the tariffs in stages.



-23-
57.     COP has adopted a two-pronged approach to reforms to liberalize
imports: to implement such measures as are feasible in the short run
while undertaking the preparation of more major reform programs to be
implemented in the long run. The National Taxation Commission has been
instructed by the Government to formulate programs for improving public
sector resource mobilization and the elasticity of the tax system and
providing a comprehensive tariff reform program with due consideration for
possible effects on efficiency and equity. The results of its delibera-
tions are expected to be completed in time for the outlines of a reform
program based on the proposals to be considered for inclusion in the
FY1986-87 budget. Meanwhile, to reduce the role of import prohibitions
and prepare for their eventual elimination, during negotiations it was
agreed that the Government (a) would not make any additions to the list of
banned imports for protective or balance of payments purposes; (b) would
measure annually the nominal protection rates on some 150 important
products subject to import restrictions (including 100 items on the nega-
tive list and 50 items on the restricted list) and discuss the results
with the Bank; and (c) would practice restraint in its approval procedures
for medium- and large-scale private and public manufacturing investment by
refusing to sanction projects which would depend upon bans or high tariffs
for their finanLial viability. In addition, the Government has agreed to
undertake a review of existing import bans on products where there is
export potential or where protection has become redundant and, after
consultation with the Bank, introduce a reduction in the number of such
bans beginning in the Import Policy Order for FY1987-88. A list of banned
items for possible elimination from the negative list was also discussed
and agreed. Consultations with the Bank would take place not later than
September 30, 1986 and January 31, 1987.
58.    Liberalization will require underlying adjustments in the
industrial structure to support the necessary evolution toward a more
efficient system. For the medium-term reform program, the Government has
chosen to emphasize a number of key subsectors: textiles and allied
activities; engineering products; and chemicals and allied products
(including man-made fibres, plastics and plastic products). These subsec-
tors have been chosen because they constitute a significant proportion of
total value added in manufacturing (more than 40X), because they lie at
very high or very Low levels in the overall range of effective protection
and because they contain a number of products which have strong export
potential. The adjustment costs of a reduction of protection in these
sectors are expected to be substantial, particularly in textiles. It is
expected that a reduction of protection would eliminate a number of the
smaller and older units and lead to a restructuring of the industry
towards larger, more efficient and more export-oriented firms. To assist
in developing a medium-term reform program, an "Industrial Efficiency
Improvement and Development Strategy Study" would be carried out under the
Export Development Loan. For each subsector, studies would be prepared
which would identify the major constraints to improvements in efficiency;
propose medium-term policy reform programs including substantial reduc-



-24-
tions in tariffs/import prohibitions and show the likely impacts on
production, employment, revenues and imports; and prepare financial and
technical assistance packages to aid the restructuring process. The terms
of reference for the study were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Letters inviting proposals have been sent to a short list of consultants
and proposals would be reviewed by GOP in May 1986. It is expected that
the study would begin during July/August 1986.
59.     The study would guide and provide an analytical input into a
phased, multi-year trade reform which the Governmeuit has given assurances
that it would introduce, after consultation with the Bank, beginning in
FY1987-88. This program would include reforms of import prohibitions and
tariffs and industrial restructuring in key industrial subsectors includ-
ing those listed in para. 58. Tne Government intends that during the
process (expected to last 4-5 years) bans/quantitative restrictions would
be substantially eliminated and that the structure of tariffs on outputs
and inputs would, in most instances, be significantly reduced, thus lower-
ing effective rates of protection.  (In some subsectors--mainly in
engineering--where effective protection is currently low or even negative,
some upward adjustments in tariffs may be justified). It is understood
that the trade reforms for any subsector may be accompanied by rehabilita-
tion programs designed to provide the technical and financial assistance
required to ease the process of adjustment. Such assistance may be
provided by Bank sector adjustment lending or possibly by specific Bank
loans for the rehabilitation of industry.
60.     Institutionalization of Policy making on Trade Reform.  To analyze
and prepare recommendations on trade incentives reform, the Government
will use the Industrial Incentives Reform Cell (see para. 32). The IIRC
would be responsible for supervising, as well as participating in, the
"Industrial Efficiency Improvement and Development Strategy Study"
referred to in para. 58. During negotiations, its work program was dis-
cussed and agreed, and its staffing would be suitably increased to take on
this task. Thereafter, the IIRC's work program and staffing would be
discussed annually with the Bank. As yet, however, IIRC is not headed by
a person of requisite experience in industrial and international economic
policy or of appropriate official rank. The appointment of a director for
the IIRC, with the appropriate qualifications and at a rank acceptable
to the Bank, would be an additional condition of effectiveness of this
loan.
Domestically-oriented Industrial Policies
61.     Deregulation.  There is a large range of licensing and regulatory
requirements that impinge on business investment and operations in
Pakistan. The regulations are imposed by Federal and Provincial
Goverments and affect primarily private industries while public units are
regulated through their own internal control mechanisms. While the objec-
tives of the regulatory system are to secure a pattern of industrial



-25-
development in line with national objectives, investment regulations
frequently act as barriers to entry and restrict competition, particularly
for smaller industrialists unable to influence the process in their own
interests. These restrictions tend to reduce the number of competing
firms, resulting in higher consumer and producer prices except for
industries subject to economies of scale. The entire regulatory system is
complex and as a practical matter any attempt at simplification must
necessarily be a slow process.
62.     With respect to procedures, the Government has announced that
sanctions will now be granted for six months and can be renewed only once.
Progress in implementation of all sanctions granted by Government will be
closely monitored and each sanction will expire after one year if no
progress can be demonstrated. Together, with the substantial increase in
sanction limits over the past four years (para. 33), these are welcome
advances. However, more needs to be done to reduce the substantial number
of cases of "specified industries" where sanctioning is still required
regardless of the size of the investment.
63.     Pricing regulations affect a number of important industries (e.g.
fertilizers, refinery products, vegetable ghee, and motor vehicles) in
both the private and public sectors. With few exceptions, the Government
uses a cost-plus system for setting the prices it administers. The objec-
tive of pricing regulation is to prevent excessive profits while guaran-
teeing producers a minimum rate of return. Although arrangements vary,
they generally attempt to generate a 15-202 financial rate of return on
assets employed for a given capacity utilization rate and in some cases
utilize a system of taxes/subsidies which tax low cost producers and
subsidize high cost producers in order to equalizE rates of return and
ex-factory prices. Cost-plus pricing arrangements offer insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or accumulate capital as cash accumulation
or new investment does not enter into the formula on which returns are
calculated. In addition, in many cases, these pricing arrangements are a
drain on the Government's budget since subsidies are needed to meet agreed
rates of return. Since the new Industrial Policy Statement of 1984-85, it
has been government policy to avoid entering into any new cost-plus con-
tracts and to explore the possibility for eliminating/phasing out old
agreements to the fullest extent possible. During negotiations of this
loan the Government confirmed that this policy will continue. Under
recent Government decisions, the systems of cement pricing and gas
producer pricing have been substantially altered from previous cost-plus
arrangements. Fixed rate of return arrangements with public sector cement
plants have been eliminated and plant managers and dealers have been given
more freedom to set prices. Cost-plus pricing will not apply to new
private sector cement plants which will have to sell at free market
prices. As for gas producer pricing, cost-plus pricing has been discarded
for all new concessions in favor of a formula in which, in advance of
exploration, a gas price would be negotiated at a discount from the inter-
national fuel price; the discount would vary from conces3ion to



-26-
concession, taking into account such factors as geological risk, location,
and expected costs of exploration end development.
64.     The Deregulation Commission (para. 35) has as its terms of
reference the examination of the usefulness of all existing regulations
and controls and the presentation of recommendations for the speedy dis-
mantling of those that are unnecessary. Specifically, the Commission
would consider the following: (a) further reductions in the investment
sanctioning system; (b) gradual elimination of cost-plus pricing;
(c) dismantling of rationing/price controls on wheat; (d) introduction of
the private sector into the domestic trade and export of cotton; (e)
decontroL of vegetable ghee and chemical fertilizer; (f) establishment of
private commercial banks; (g) privatization of power distribution; (h)
establishment of an autonomous telephone and telegraph corporation. The
Commission has already submitted reports on: fertilizer pricing, entry
and pricing in edible oils, wheat pricing and rationing and autonomy in
telecommunications. In April 1986, the Government announced a deregula-
tion package for edible oils, the main eLements of which were: (a)
decontrol of prices; (b) freedom to import edible oils in bulk by the
private sector; (c) a variable rate tariff which would be adjusted peri-
odically to smooth out price fluctuations; and (d) authorization for the
sanctioning of additional capacity. These measures constitute a major
opening up of the edible oil sector to market forces and the government
action would reduce subsidies by about US$140 million (equivalent to 0.4%
of GDP). During negotiations, the Government agreed to discuss the recom-
mendations of the Deregulation Commission and progress in the implementa-
tion thereof annually with the Bank.
65.     Public Manufacturing Enterprise Management.  The public manufac-
turing sector in Pakistan is important, not so much because of its size-
it only accounts for about 152 of manufacturing value added-but because
of the dominant role it plays in a number of key sectors, such as cement,
fertilizer, basic chemicals, petroleum refining, steel, motor vehicles,
and heavy engineering, and its strong forward linkages with the private
sector. GOP is presently implementing a strict policy of limiting the
access of the public manufacturing sector to budgetary resources. Public
units are expected to act more like private sector firms and their invest-
ments are to be financed through retained earnings and commercial
borrowings. With the winding down of investment in the Pakistan Steel
Mill, budget allocations for investment in manufacturing have been falling
steadily, and with the Steel Mill's completion would be limited to rela-
tively minor amounts for plants in backward areas.
66.     Performance of public manufacturing units has improved because of
a number of measures taken by the Government, to delegate decision-making
authority from the ministerial level to the holding company level and to
introduce a "signalling system" which establishes performance evaluation
criteria and rewards managers according to actual performance. This year
(FY1985-86) 52 out of 68 enterprises are participating in the "signalling



-27-
system", representing over 90X of the sales of all public manufacturing
enterprises. The system has contributed to increased efficiency and
profitability in public manufacturing. However, further increases in its
coverage are unlikely, either because the remaining units are very small
or because they are less suited to performance monitoring (e.g. consulting
or marketing companies). The next step forward in the "signalling system"
will be the introduction of medium-term corporate investment and financial
planning. Such planning would give managers a longer term context about
product lines, investments, financing requirements and personnel and hence
complement the target setting process of the "signalling system", which
presently only defines evaluation criteria within a one-year planning
horizon. An international consulting firm has been appointed to begin
preparation of the corporate planning component. The initial phase,
expected to last 6-8 months, involves the development of a corporate plan
prototype and its application to five enterprises representing different
sectors and corporate structure. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that, after testing and refining the planning methodology, it
would be extended to all other public manufacturing units in FY1986-87.
67.     In addition to measures aimed at improving the profitability of
public manufacturing enterprises, the Government has announced that it
would denationalize a number of firms and sell a part of its shares in a
number of others to the general public, with a total of about Rs 2 billion
worth of public holdings scheduled to be sold within the next several
months. A Disinvestnent Comittee, consisting of the Ministers of
Finance, Industry and Production, has been set up to guide this process
and National Development Finance Corporation, Investment Corporation of
Pakistan, and Bankers' Equity Ltd. have been appointed underwriters. The
underwriters are developing plans to sell shares in the following six
companies: Pakistan International Airways, Pakistan State Oil, Sui Gas
Transmission Corporation, Sui Northern Gas Pipeline, Pak-Saudi Fertilizer,
and Dandot Cement. In addition, a list of firms for outright sale has
been drawn up, a number have been offered for sale, and bids are under
evaluation. IFC has been invited by GOP to provide technical assistance
in support of the divestiture process.
PART V - THE PROJECT
History
68.     The Loan has been under preparation since January 1984 and was
appraised in October 1985. Technical discussions and negotiations took
place in Washington from April 21 to April 25, 1986. The Pakistan delega-
tion was led by Mr. Qazi M. Alimullah, Additional Secretary, Ministry of
Finance. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
The appointment of a person with appropriate experience and rank to head
the Industrial Incentives Reform Cell would be an additional condition of
effectiveness.



-28-
Proiect Obiectives and Description
69.     The key objectives of the loan are to increase exports and to
improve industrial efficiency. With respect to exports, the project would
support (i) improved access by direct and indirect exporters to
duty/tax-free imported inputs through improvements in the standard rebate
system and the introduction of open bonded manufacturing (para. 49 ); (ii)
improvements in coverage of export incentives by use of domestic letter of
credit as means of identifying indirect exporters (para. 51); (iii)
improvements in the export credit guarantee scheme and collateral prac-
tices of banks regarding small exporters and exporters of non-traditional
exports (para. 51); (iv) strengthening of institutions to support exports
(paras. 52-54). Understandings regarding the maintenance of a competitive
exchange rate would also be part of the loan (para. 44).
70.     The loan would also support actions to improve industrial
efficiency through increased exposure to international competition and
through increased ease of entry and reliance on market forces in domestic
markets. In the area of trade policy, the loan would support ti) studies
of the impacts of liberalization programs in key industries on production,
government revenues, together vith the preparation of subsector adjustment
programs (paras. 58-59); (ii) the institutionalization of policymaking on
trade reform (para. 60); and (iii) commitments not to expand coverage of
import bans, to monitor protection implicit in existing bans on about 150
key products on an annual basis, and to eliminate import bans on products
which have export potential or where smuggling has already reduced protec-
tion (para. 57). In the area of domestic industrial policy, the loan
would support (iv) deregulation of the edible oils industry (para. 64);
(v) divestiture of a portion of government holdings in a number of public
enterprises (para. 67); and (vi) introduction of corporate medium-term
investment and financial planning in public manufacturing enterprises
(para. 66).
Loan Amount. Disbursements and Procurement
71.     The loan would amount to US$70 million and is expected to be fully
disbursed within 12 months of effectiveness. The funds provided under the
loan would be used to help finance essential inputs into the industrial
sector and hence into manufactured exports. Eligible imports would
include raw materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and spare parts
for both the private and public industrial sectors. The Government
program supported by this loan calls for a number of studies involving the
use of consultants and other supporting goods and services; all such
studies would be funded from the First Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.
1256-PAK; June 23, 1982), the Second Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.
1480-PAK; June 13, 1984), or, if necessary, from technical assistance
funds provided under the Second Industrial Investment Credit Project (Lu.
2648-PAK, Cr. 1646-PAK February 26, 1986) and not from the proceeds of



-29-
this loan. The proposed loan would finance only about 2% of the value of
all eligible imports during the expected one year disbursement period.
Imports directly financed from other sources would not be eligible for
Bank financing and there would be no displacement of alternative financing
on acceptable terms available to Pakistan, for commodities eligible for
financing from this Loan. Not more than 25% of the proceeds of the Loan
would be used to finance the imports of any commodity or group of com-
modities falling within a single group or subgroup of the Standard
International Trade Classification (SITC), Revision 2.
72.     Procurement would be limited to goods from countries eligible
under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Both private and public
sector imports would be eligible for financing. All contracts exceeding
$2 million in size would be awarded through international competitive
bidding. These contracts would be subject to ex-post review; that is, a
brief report containing evidence that each was let in accordance with Bank
Guidelines and conformed copies of the contract would be submitted to the
Bank before the making of the first payment out of the Special Account-in
respect of such contract. For contracts under $2 million, procurement by
private firms would follow normal commercial practices; and procurement by
the public sector would be in accordance with the Government's standard
procurement practices.
73.     The proposed Loan would finance 100% of the c.i.f. costs of
eligible imports. The State Bank of Pakistan would be responsible for
collecting appropriate supporting documentation, the preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications, and the maintenance of necessary
accounts for the loan funds. In order to facilitate disbursement, a
Special Account would be established at the National Bank of Pakistan on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The initial deposit would
be $14 million. Reimbursements for expenditures to be funded from the
Special Account would be accompanied by a Statement of Transactions on the
Special Account since the previous application with the balance certified
by the National Bank of Pakistan. Payments under contracts above $2
million would be fully documented. Disbursements from the proposed loan
for items below $2 million would be made on the basis of modified state-
ments of expenditure from the State Bank of Pakistan detailing individual
transactions in a given period by SITC group and source, in respect of
eligible imports, together with a certification of the amounts involved.
Documentation would be forwarded by concerned commercial banks to the
State Bank of Pakistan and would be available for review by Bank supervi-
sion missions. The documentation supporting withdrawal applications would
consist of a copy of the invoice from the supplier, evidence of shipment,
and evidence of payment. The project account, including the Special
Account, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the annual audit report would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit report would include a
statement verifying that amounts disbursed against statements of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose they were intended.



-30-
Project Benefits
74.     The proposed loan forms an important part of the structural
adjustment process, first supported by the Bank under SAL I and continued
under the Energy Sector Loan (Ln. 4056-PAK; May 6, 1985). To support
continued rapid growth with sustainable external financing requirements,
the Government must continue to implement policies which improve domestic
resource mobilization to finance rising investment requirements for
private sector recovery and economic and social infrastructure and which
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution t'arough
rationalized incentives and restructured investment program in the key
energy, industry, and agriculture sectors. The details of the required
program were provided above in paras. 9-12.  The program of reforms sup-
ported by the proposed Export Development Loan would directly contribute
to improved balance of payments performance through better export incen-
tives and finance and further progress toward trade liberalizaticon, and to
making the economy more efficient through the extension of mark.c-based
pricing systems. Provided a reasonable pace of structural reform in key
sectors is maintained, the benefits of the Export Development Loan would
be sustained into the medium term and Bank staff projections show that a
scenario with real GDP growth of 5.8Z p.a., fixed investment rising by
two percentage points as a share of GNP, and the maintenance of a debt
service ratio in the range of 15-20X is feasible over the next decade
(Annex VI, Tables 1 and 2.)l/
Project Risks
75.     Given the efforts of many developing countries to increase exports
simultaneously, the difficulties in opening up new markets and rising
protectionist sentiments in the developed countries, the improvements in
export performance could be slower to materialize than expected. While
these constraints are plausible, Pakistani exporters, especially in
manufactured goods, have shown themselves to be highly responsive to
appropriate incentives in the past and the thrust of the program is in the
right direction even if results come with a lag.
76.     Performance under the project would depend importantly on the
Government's ability to carry out an appropriate stabilization program.
In particular, export performance--as well as other efforts to improve
economic efficiency--will depend importantly on the maintenance of an
appropriate exchange rate and an appropriate fiscal/monetary poli:y stance
1/ For a more complete discussion of this scenario and alternative
scenarios, see the latest economic report: Pakistan - Economic and
Social Development Prospects (Report No. 5962-PAK; February 18, 1986),
Chapter III.



-31-
which keeps domestic demand and inflationary pressures under control.
Without such policies, the balance of payments is likely to deteriorate
and the pressures for import controls would grow, thus raising the pos-
sibility that several years of progress in liberalization could be
reversed. The measures taken by the authorities in the past few months to
devalue the rupee and the Government's demonstrated commitment to finan-
cial prudence limit the risks involved. The monitoring of performance in
these areas during this loan would help to keep the risks within accept-
able limits.
77.     There is also a risk that political events either inside Pakistan
or in the region may impede the implementation of any reform program.
However, GOP has been able to compile an impressive record of policy
improvement despite adverse developments in the region and in the world
economy in recent years. The Government has demonstrated a commitment to
a gradual rationalization of the economy through the implementation of
measures which have, in many cases, involved politically difficult
decisions. This comitment appears to have intensified under the new,
more representative regime. For a number of the less controversial
measures under this loan, political support appears certain; in a number
of other cases where there are likely to be temporary costs (e.g. import
liberalization, some deregulation measures under consideration), achieving
reforms in the present political environment may be difficult and the
Government is attempting to build a consensus through the use of national
comissions. The gradualist approach being followed in this loan is
therefore appropriate.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 5, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-32-
Anue 1
,LLL L                                           Page 1 of 6
~~~~LOW InONSu  row
194!!      197d     u uiutuo 434   awic                  824  ;acZ
A3JUlST1  UUL2U  RATUIO
PmAirn   TOTAL                   30.0       40.0        44.0              92.4                    100.7
NlKU                  48.0        57.0       57.0             105.5                    104.4
VoUAL                  13.0       22.0       31.0              79.3                     97.2
IUCUND&1T# TOTAL                 11.0       13.0        14.0              31.3                     47.8
1ALS                   18O.       20.0       *0.0              40.4                     s0.6
PnALI.                  3.0        5.0      . 6.0              21.9                     4&.1
voGnAUia(zOlICO UT)                 1.0        1.5         1.7               3.2                    16.4
3DUW                             39.0       41.0        36.0             32.0                     30.4
80CMAR                           24.0       20.0        11.0              17.4                     22.2
cmm-
_ASO     AIAOSMP               1.3        2.6        3.4               0.2                     10.1
RADIO 3a3111U0Ih111  *O             4.0       17.1        74.6             129.8                    172.9
TV I        3flI aI Mr              ..         1.4        11.               19.1                     58.5
OWWA    ('32. C3UBA
zuzunun) CECLATEOU
IUU10         POUULAZOE           13.2        ..         19.4              25.7                     65.3
Cl&  *L A?*NU/C*IZT&               1.7        2.0  ,      2.2 /            *.0                      3A
TOZAL I A110 r0o  (TIM)         1"44.0    17324.0    23223.0
FINALK  {CM)                      1.6        9.3        10.6              33.2                    33.6
AMWLU   C1ZIIT)                  61.0       59.0    5 7.0                 69.6                    52.2
IUDpS5  (Jumm)                   18.0       19.0        20.0              15.8                     17.9
PAE!CPATZO AT*1  CIUCCDI)
TOL                              31.5       28.7        26.2              41.9                     36.9
KALB                             5!.2       30.4        48.3              53.6                     50.3
1361                              5.7        5.5         6.3              29.1                     26.8
ZODUOIC  D     _  13ATZ0            1.5        1.7         1.7               1.0                     1.1
PESI OF PRIVATES INCD
31033s5 50or _US01               20.3 /k    17.J
11203t5 20Z 0OF 1I00lO31S        45.3 7     41J          ..                ..                     4.0
LUOVST 2070? IIOUSEROtDS          6.4 71     8.0         ..                ..                      6.4
LOUST 409 OFZOPOSI               17. S7     20.2         ..                ..                      15.5
-oxn  TA31      -
ZSTIMZ ABSOLU  POVERT! IN&CE
LonE CUSS PIE CAPITA)
5R3                               ..        68.0 /S   176.0 /c           133.9
RURAL                             ..        47.o 7i   122.0 7            111.6                   151.9
ESTDKATD  RELATIV PCVERY ICOME
LEL (UM  PER CAPrTA)
Ulm                               ..        34.0 /S    88.0 /c             ..                     177.9
WRDLX                             ..        22.0 7      5 sx.O 7;;        61.7                   164.7
ESTnKA3 POP. BLOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTT INCOME LEVEL (2)
UR                                ..        42.0 /I    32.0 /c           43.8                     23.5
RURAL                             ..        43.0 7i    29.0 -7            51.7                    37.6
MO AVAILABLE
NOT APPI.C*ILE
N 02 T S 
/a  The Scoup average for each indLcetor are populatioom-eigheed arithmetc  _au. Cowerag of countri-s
mong tho lndcaeora depends on availability of date and Is not uniform.
/b  Unleag otebaris noted, 'Deta for 1960" rotfr to any yar between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwean
1969 ad 1971; and dar.a for 'e t lacent Eatlete" betmen 1961 and 1913.
/c  1979; /d 1968; / 1977; /f If registered. not *lI practising IL the countrey; /1960; /h 1973;
/S 1972i.7 19164.
JUNE, 1915



-33-
Anus 1
TALE Is                                                    Pag  2 of 6
PAAISTS               - SOCIAL INoICATOM DCA 3IKR?
PAISTAN                             RZVRUUNC lU  (4 1   4             ) L4.
wloT                     LTH   WuM  15MV20  1
196&  1971/       T   _          LOA  ttrNs ust
tgw_                                                             VA TjT St FLC  I 6   CFL.
a  (      _imua t. a)
TOSL                              aA          6*3.9      m03.V
SRICULUJAL                        227.5       243.3      253.0
Gw        CWIU (US)                    0. ..                 11D.0             27u.3          lull.l
ow  qmnrnc  aCPITA
CKnwcmnr OF OUI. WVA3.rr)          90.0       139.0      179.0              265.7                    5.o
_ - AL   WIlE
POflLMAlFOU.N3-UAA (CHNUSASS)  45851.0    60449.0    89729.0
U0B1 PPULAtON 2 SC OrTAL)          22.1        24.9       29.1               22.3                     3.9
POPULATICS 1R021C110u
POAZN  iN  AR 20  (MLL)                                 133.1
STATICUA   OULaI   (KILL)                              330.0
Oears. amJEs                                              1.9
Po SO. mm.                     .5.0          75.2       111.4             173.8                    386.9
FM S0. DI. *1. LAND             201.5       248.4       344.'             353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION SR SKUICIURK CZ)
0-14 US                          43.6       *6.2        *3.7              30.3           Jb.2
15-04 Y8                         51.6        50.5       53.2               59.4                     57.7
65 AM A39                         4.3         3.1         2.9               4.3                      3.5
L^POUATXON G0MW tATE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.h         3.0               2.U                     L.
13AM                              4.6        4*.0         4.4               *.1                      4.1
r  iKER MATE (PER UOUS)            '8.6        46.6       42.0               27.5                     30.1
M-M iUA RmATE (PM TMoS)            23.5        19.4       14.9               10.2                      9.4
GROSS   ROOUCIOU  RATE              3           3.4        2.8                1.7                      1.9
ACCEPORS. ANUAL (tOos)             ..      3906.1     1244.0 Ic
USERS CZ OF 11*1 VaN)             ..          6.0 Id    14.3               49.4                     56.S
INCDEX OF FOD MIMo. FM CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      59.0       102.0      107.0              110.                     124.4
PER CAPiTa Soif OF
CALORIES CZ OF UZOIADZEST)       77.0        95.0      tU'.0       I U 6.3                         115.7
PiOTEUS (CLS PER DAY)            53.0        56.0       41.0               60.1                     60.3
OF laW1 ANIMAL AM  PULSE        23.0        22.0       20.0 la            14.&                     14.1
C1TL  (AM  GS  11-) nECK RATE      2'.9        21.1       16.0                7.3                      7.2
LIFE ERPECI. ALT 3RT1 CYEARS)       3.1        46.0       50.2               .0.1                     60.6
IYF37r OR. RATE (PER mhOM)        161.5       143.0      119.0              69.2                     04.9
ACCESS TO SAF lAER (itOP)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0       34.t               4'.2                     4o.u
URBAN                                        77.0       72.0               77.2                     57.0
RURAL                             ..          *.0       20.0               3.6                     317.1
ACCESS T  EACRETA DISPOSAL
(I Or OPULATON)
TOrAL                             ..          3.0       13.1                7.S                     I.1
URll                              ..         12.0       *2.0               26.6                     52.9
RUAL                              ..          ..         2.0                5.3                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5400.0     4300.0 if  340.0               3318.0                  7751.7
POP. PMR NIIRSMIIC PERSON       38110.0    10560.0 77  5820.o             ' *69O.7                 2464.B
POP. PM HOSPITAL n
TOTAL                           1790.0     1860.0     15bO.O IC          1039.1                   1112.1
'RBA                            510.0       650.0      710.0 77           299.1                   651.
RURAL                         22650.0    12460 0      1kbU.O 77          6026.2                   2594.9
AD'tISSIOS PER HOSPITAL  El0        ..          ..         ..               52.3                     41.1
-sC
AVERAGE SIZE or aSUSEHOLD
^TAL                              5.'         1.3        .1 Ic
URA                               5.6         5.5        '.. /c
RURAL                             5.4         5.2         .  T.                    
AVERSE W0. Of PRSUHSIJROU
TOTAL                             3.1         2.6 Im
UORB                              3.1         2.7 7K     ..
URL                               3.1         2.6 Itb
PERCCWTAE OF OIELLISE WITH ELEWT.
TOTAL                             ..         17.9/b
URBAN                             ..         5.4         ..7
RURAL                             ..         *&.9 r      .



-34-                                                ANNEX I
pase 3  of 6
~~aih  fh      Im Ed    u muinaumWdW=           M  by puMMM  OW  i la etihba doa lb D  dMi aM~ mmadmhl, adM 
lb .~~ u~    (I) ek     am  d B          de           ai     dismic unio slbr adb NIm~ar ad~ mmiiw  ea*n th  um
~~~~~~~~~ bu~~~~~~~~~~~~deAntteiMsestamdw i.
d baimby auln1minagPOW
AREA (dhomerd, aqhm.)                                        O.m .A         r     wjak )-Numberorbive birth dtheyear
TwAr-Toed mufmf  amo.pe In d WMe and nlrAd wam               pw thommd of.id.ymr populabo  1960.1970. and, 1963 data.
l960.1970 and 1IM defta                                      Omt  mdAMw 'pm1les)-Number of deaamb  theo year
U~   I5l~Ia~of ageimtu   ama- mad ump.Otanly or        PW dwm  o(miaW pOPoPdatu  1960.1970 and 1963 dnta
p~~~aa ptmmn y  rrp.ptu w, nratad kinhsgrdam  oro         Qe~r Airaft bw-A%wra    numuber of daughuri a wonan
Mm bs, 1960.1970 and 1912 daLa                              %4N bumhr  mammal re producti  period if she eauune
I     m  saIap-spmib hfetlt raw usaully Ivsyear   coreveding
GNIP PU CAMFA (LS*-GN   par apis ustmas at                   inmal  1960.1970. and 193
market prim. calculad by same coiw,is mewhPd -  IhM.                         "ACO      Am j f 1 EP-Annmu  *sm-
Bas MAd  (196143 b*b) 196 daa.                              ~dvo                                              .*On
Emu       rr.... pM   CANTA-Anuanmapal                   ftk pbom porm
comnuiptiom of oommuia pnm-my SNOW  (coal and swlgie         -mm   FbmdU4W, (pwm faiii               ~)-lbe pa0.
sm*    aami a an d hydro-. ander and geothermal dhs     top o @mtarid womn eo  dild.hmuinage whvo are practicing or
nimit) in kilogram of adoieqaival  par capkta 19601970. and  whoseshumboband       - prcicn anay formofooatraceptiou..Ibme.
1962dea&                                                     ofchild-beerng apgant gmsrfly women aged 15.49. ahhough for
som  crntum  conutamaptve MP am nommud for cdiv age
VOFUAtOI 4 AND VrfAL SETZIWN                                 gecUPa.
j0dopumh, N-Iber (rhmwu)-Aa4 of n3y1; 3960.17M               FOOD AN Np      I 3
_d 1963 d_A_
Urine Pip I     (pwre   of muslk-4Ratio of .h..to toa        hmkZfFd&bstdm?Crb (1917-71'.MI)-lodex of per
popdado.diffomddakkmfurbmwsmayaffcompw-       capita, anual prodcto  of all food ooumoffdite  PNodwcton
ab-k of da  among coumuis 196  IM  ,   1963 dai              embncue anial feed and ud ror MFakrcutue Food cmmmodities
indlude priary commodities (e.g. sugnucne insted of sugr)
Pi   d       Pi uJe I'which an edfible and contain nurient (ecg coffee and tea are
Populdmr    a yew 2XD-Tbe projecti onf popWulao  for 2000    excludo*d)tey comprise ceonlk root crops, pubes, oil seeds
made for each ecanosy separately. Stwrtin with information on  v'egtabim fmiut. nuts. nsugarn aid inwp beets livstock, and
total popultonw by age ad sex rfrtilt rates. umoalit raes and  bvsock products. Aggegat productiona of each country is based
inteesadonl O"gration in the bas ywar 1960. these poamete    an national average producer price weghts 196145. 1970. and
w       _re iproi fivoie-y interva onthebasisofenerala d     1962 data.
assaumptions unti the populaion become statonry.             P.. C. g Sap* of Cdmrhs (POWu.lfrqnw*r)-Compur-
Stadimuy pqpladom-Is one in which n-and sex-specilicnmor-    ad l1rom calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabl in country
udlity razes haLve mat chnged ovra lonmg period, whileaeseii  per capita per day. Available supples compris domestic produc-
fertilty rae hav simultaneously ruEmaie at replacanen level    tion. inmpot les exports, and change in stock. Net supplies
(nct reproduction ratel) In such a populton, the birth raze is    eclmde animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constat and equal to the death raze. the age structure is Wls  food pPr Pislng. and losse in distrbution. Requirments were
constant, anod dhe growth raze is wo. The statonar populatio  estimated by FAO based on physiologcal needs for normal activity
size Was estimatd on the basis of the projected p characteristics of  and health counsdermns environmental temperature body weigts.
the populaion in the year 2000. and the rafte of deadin of fertility  age and sem distribution or populaton and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement leveL                                    waste at household leveLh 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pop.lari. Afonmoma-Is the tendenc ror populatio gowth to     Pli. Capita SW&pl of 'putiw (srmu per dayJ-Protrin content of
continue beyond the tume that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of rood per day. Nct supply of rood is defined
achievd. that is. eve after the ane reproduction rat has rewched  as above Requirments for all countrie established by USDA~
unity. The momenum of a population in the year t is measud as  prove for minimum alloances of 60 grms of tot  protien per
a ratio of the Wultmate stationar populaio to the population in  day and! 20 grams of animtal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year S. even the assmnption that ferd*tiltemain az replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat level from year i onward. 1985 dati.                    75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
RiUNL*  Dmatiy                                               averag for the workld proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn-Mi-year popuation per sque klometer (100 e         Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tame) of total area 1960.1970. and 1983 data.                Pl.. Cap" ita Pwr  SWp*l Frm  A imulmd P&e--Protein supply
Per sqkmLagr. crauara Lurd-Computed as above for agmcultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 1961.65.
Ind only. 1960. 1970. an  1962 data.                         1970 and 1977 dat
Rpnhrba Age Suuegwe (pwesra)--Chllrn(0-14y3vin). work-       CNdU('qez 1-4) Death Rota (p.. uhusmad)-Number of deaths of
ingagp(15-B yea). and retired(65 yeats and over) as ecnts    chilre aged 1.4 year per thousand children in the same age
ofmid-ya pou          1960.1970. and 1963 data.              um  i a pven year. For most developing c tntres data denved
MpAd - Go   Rote           P -ural-.leAnld growth rates of   from  f tabls 196. 1970 and 1983 data.
tota midye   p eltio for 195.40 190-70 an  1970.
PI         Go-i -A1w  ( ; -zz '-"A'n growth rawe        Lo~ Expecrne mv - h     (yem.a)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195.6M160M0 and 1970-33 data.        infan would liv if prevailin pattern of mortalty for all people



-35-                                                 AN=  I
ps 4 of 6
at the m orof in birt -'to MY th same dhrOugon ait            pM-luee*waaRu.p           ad            T adma as-
1960.1970 and 1933 dam                                       row  _inmp rie  idmdbyy kwb                    nmbn  O
4a    we Jat         . (VWN            r of ifnwo die         ubI  nu ceepoda bamb
befor reachng oue ymr of ape par dhond lIve brfth In a ivan
yar; 1960,970 aOd I9  dMa                                     :u..mrn
Almt So  3&   f(            f         )_iM   uIm  ad         A.q_ Cm ew (' i )cars corn
rind-Numbe of peopl (to11. ura,anual) withsonomh               -  .er e,- maveating I..stianight pursenl acludessambul
aocn to  fe_ wae apl ( ledui  m d  -ies wan or               man, hsairs aid mnlit   v i  .
uetetd but                 _ Uneontinamd  lwee sck a dthai Ike. poet                            f A   (Pr fm d*- AU   typAM  of smdiw
boremin,   m d ma Pnand smrtfmo w*)t puap ofhdmr   a           r               ti -           p     vno        u
tive popuations Ia a urbn amm a pubic roveaha or standporn     aval  aw  od           m.'  in coalaa and In yars wam,
located not awe than 213 ma Ike. a horn~ may be coStdu                   o             in dram dam for mwt y. mrii  y
as being witinW mobuoa        or doat house. In rul  aa  be co_mpmb shm mmo man  abodud bommi&
reaaon6abhaonrnoul dwipythaot  owmanfeor- m Iu of th
hombold do not hae to upend m _iapopoiu   pa of dh day       Tradwv_b-                             m     fro r broudma
a et1s fadlyfswar-                                           to _mn1  puWc prt          pop o: itembalm. u_ad TV
A  b buena mqeri p.    ~           .'~,       remon  In isnmunur aid in years wham mulattlo of TV mu s m
Accs o  ur    D_pw  0 *                     -_1_  n= h_     in WF_
ad ue14-Nusmber of pople (toaL ubn ad   ma            by      'b 
eweS- dlspoaa M PRo_taP  of their rmpwve populationa. _                C i     (pa d)-Ih.w                   a   aver-
ExacLe dipoal mIly iclde dto colleiond disposal. with or     aP amlatii of '_l ma           e"I    dud   a
withowt truattit of ban   macm  ad waa ater by watar          psocl Ip M.mt deod p imari to s               wnd mm
bone nystm or the 1m or pt pvivmand milw G tpstnoL.          It i odind.   to be'dd  Wit appers a lM foux tim  a wasL
I pdI bnpw pi    i_k-p       _t   dt idI by numbr of pne-    C       A _ A        _   w C_ F. l-4ad  so the
tigphya iquaied fom a mdil schoolat tutlsity rl   Oribw o   t    sd dig the y   im buing Edmunm to
lpilask. pw Narq P         ftulatiol dit    b aby WAer of    dussin cias. and moiol it..
practicig male and female graduat mus, asebtan muam.           ,.
practa nurse d wusing azdliauiar.                            LTU     aORCE
__ -        _eqbd hd* -tpn nLA rs                                            _Eo_cl U
(total urba.emS ndur  dtivied by their    _ speci  _    of   dialg amed fo_   an  _nemployed bAt ea hudg housewives.
Imospal badas avaiable  putic =An pivafte pogema ad specinied  studets eitc. covewn  populatio  or al aps. Defintion. in
bospitals asal enumo   aser  Hoq*mhpi   are     c     _      vaious ooutri. a not _mparabb 1960 1970 and 1983 dat
permanently saied by at hat on p     Atabli.lments prov-     F        m ,) F_ ra) labor fome n pexcentae of total lbor
aida pncipaly antodin caream not in       Rauded. tura hosptal,  fofCae
howeve. inlde health and medic cent not permanently staffed  Agvme (pwri r-Labo force in faing. fonry. hun
by a physician (but by a medica aussstant. nus, midwife, ec.)  and fid*shn  perctae of total lbor form  1960. 1970 ad 190
whic offer inptt accomxoatin and provide a imited ne         data.
Of Medical failiticsL                                        faera fjecue-Labor force i =min  constrctoo          n
Adudsd4   pfr 0f.piu Bed-Total number of admision to or      fao driog nd  ctricity. wner   d  s a pacent   of tol lbor
disasrofm  ospas divided by te number of beds.               force; 1960. 1970 nd 190 data.
HOUSING                                                      or avity rae ar compud a totL mal, an femle
.Ar qe SW of fl.wh    (pauses pr h. a_                       a p      _enuts of tol, mal ad  male populto  of all as
mdrii-A household consiss ofa rXp of indidals who sha         especvey. 196 1970. ad 1963 dat. Th are based on 10s
lvmg quares and tbir man meal. A boarder or loder may or     para     r   r                 s      of t pop       
may not be included in the household for staiic  pwpous.     ln twe trend. A few  stimat e from natonal sos.
.ue  Nmbr of Persm per Rooi-.al, wb&a, ad rilf-              Ecwi_c Dep&wbsar  d&--Ratio of populaion under 15. and
Avge number of persons per room in all urban, and roul       65 and over. to tde working age population (dtos agd 15-64).
occupied conventonal dwdlingp. respety. Dwellings exclude
non-prmanent struau  and unoccupid pars                      INCOME DISTRUTION
Pecnag of DweEng -u&                    Wk. old _MILD-       hrqe of Trd Dirpe  kcuon (bad i cah ad kl_d)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in lving quarts as pm-  Acruing to pctle groups of households ranked by total houe-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwegs rspectively.            hold inome.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4aei Emar Reg                                               The following etimes am very approximae measu  of poverty
ftimy school - total. male and fenMe-Gw.s    totaj mak and   lvels, and should be interpreted with considerble caution.
female nroUment of al ages at the prmwy levd as pemrnges of  Eited Abs aeh_w te famw Leawd (USSper e_u-wh..
rspective primay school  populaions. While ny countries      ad rW-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prmary school age to be 6-11 year. othets do n. The  below which a mini  nutntionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country praxces in the ages and duation of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
ar rdected in the ratios given. For some countries with univrsal  Esiiawd Rlade Pri hker Lawd (USS per cwa)-J-whw
educatimn, gross enrolhment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rw.I-Rural relative povertv income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pimary-school  avrage per cai personal income of the country. Urban klvd is
ager                                                         denved from the rural kvel with adjustment for higher cost of
S&canday whoo - total. mak and femal-Computed as above.    living in urban a
secondary ducaton requi  at last four yes of approved pi-    Estlsed hpdIuu Beay Ahsae hbewey Larn Lawd (p'-
mary            provides eneraL voconal or tencher tra                  mad nra- tret of population (urban and rral
instuions for pupil usualy of 12 to 17 yea of agc correspond-  wbo are -abolute poor.'
nce counes are eneally cuded-
Vocatina Eavfeibeni rc,n of xwndauy)-Vocadond iostt-                   Cmptive Anayss and Data Divso
fioos indude tchncal industaL or odtr pronams whch opemae            Economi Anaysi ad Projections Depurtent
indepndenly or a depatmis of seondary inetiou.                                      Iune 1965



-36-
Pfte 5 of 6
on~ Mu CAPxu IN 1983t 08390 ID
@011 N&?TOU*1. ftflROCT in 1904183 L                                             oAL  rs5 or    (1. e tae     )
ULS *ill         XL     196Z170-1974Z75  197I176-190L1  181I2   IMZ/3 IMl/    1mi1u5
or at maket prices              33.49       100.0           3.5             7.1           4.3    7.4       4.2      7.6
bos. domestic Lavesetent         5.41        16.2         -5.5              4.1          10.5    9.G       3.4     10.2
ceeo   ustioenl  aying          3.74         11.2         -2.1              6.7           6.9   24.9    4.5         4.9
urrent _account blamee         -1.65         -4.9           .                .             .
ert o  goods. _  o              3.24          9.7         -3.5              7.3          -5.6    27.5    -3.2    -1.2
Iv.rtm of goods. 3              7.76         23.2         -7.1              5.5           0.7     1.1    22.0       7.1
=uM. LAMrn acz APO
PXODUCWMI  XI 1982183
~~Ja1u..MdaL.        .JNLihiur-L.                    Al    J a Wre
Agricel                         6.606    24               14.1      51                    469    47
Iuntgry A                      7.969     29                5.2      19                  1,536    153
swice                       jL3,8    A7                 _U       -0                   1,576   ME
Totul/Average                27,678   100               27.6    100                   1,003   1i
tr G 1       Cor_ t I.                         F         1 _    t
(Rs bil in).7 of Cll_tX   billion)                                  ofC
,iggt85 I    198U85  l80/1B-196!U88 5        5 If 115        1980181-196/85
Curren receipts                      77.3        16.2         16.5                61.0        12.8         12.6
Correct expendLtue.         oI                     9     1.8  JILI                ZL&         A
Curent surplus                      -14.6        -3.0         -1.2               -10.0        -2.1         -0.6
Capital expenditres I                39.2         8.2          8.9                33.5         7.0          7.6
External amuijtance (nat)            14.8         3.1          3.5                14.6         3.1          3.5
NI_G C2DIT AIID PRICS
1975176  1276177   1977178  ,19N7879  1979/6   1980/81   1981/82   19827U3   198316    198u185
(Vs billian)
-oney and quasi money L                 41.6      51.7      63.7      78.6      92.4    104.8    116.5    146.0    163.3    182.6
Bank credit to public aector            2S.1      36.6      43.5      54.9      61.8      70.9      79.7      95.5    105.6    128.6
Bank credit to privete sector           17.8      23.0      26.5      30.5      36.2      42.8      51.8      6: I      78.3      92.2
(percentageS  or inex n_brws)
Moey And quasi money ea 1 of CDP        31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7     38.2
Cosmer price index (1969/70-100)       229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1    462.0    479.3
hnnual percentae changes in:
Consumer price index                     8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3      13.1       7.6       3 S      10.5       3.7
Bank credit to public sector            32.5      30.2      18.8      26.2      12.6      14.7      12.4      19,'      10.6      21.8
ank credit to private sector            11.2      29.2      15.2      15.1      18.7      18.2      21.0      21.2      24.7      17.8
&    amed on World Sank Atlas nethodology and calculated at an average of 1980-82 prices and exchange rates.  All
other connersions to dollar, in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Lb  Provisional.
Ic  Projection for 1983/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
I   Include manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
LI  Consolidated revenue. and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Goverments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Govar_et transfers)
LI Revised budet data.
A  Excluding principal rapaymnts of foreign loans. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain curret expenditures alco.
Not applicable.
Not available.
January 1986



-37-
Pass 6 of S
annex er mna                                                                     xm mUlmona UlmAumci  ieImI-oh
aU Sn a s  s
cmU snIn
Imports af ago"., E              5,42    2,65    3,41     34z9      3,261         am  _ette                   29.1        11.5
Impot. of soode  "a             J9M    44l   J           J7J      7J02f           Costa  rm                   22. a.
Nuane  sp (deficit - -)        -3,05  -3,27  -2,172  -3,619    -3,737            Gatte cltb                  2.          11.3
U3e                        377.8        14.6
naterat   Ita                    -357      .453    -4U1    -old    -462           All tbs  amu3t Ls         1AIL!        .2
Vaten' rittae                    2,037    2,224   2,67    1,J37     2,660           Tut                     2,5.4        103.6
Otbe factor paymt. (ae)           274      31       19 3m             196
Net trsafer                                        - _ -    ..  .      ..
Balsa. - entrant uCCnmt          -1   -1,35    -551  -1,00         -1,6sn
Direct foedig  inave   t           ..       ..ment
net U.? borrowing                                                                                                     M  million
Disbursements                   95    1,102   1,31   1,241    1,219
isatia                          -5    .4"   __:MU  -mg   ..4S                   PahI  deft.  acUdgt Wnzetcd          9,52.9
n-total                         44       610      913     679       561          _-smte  Private debt im.
Tremmectiouc with DWf             315      356      413      '1       -S            Teta outstanding ad diebered        9,.9
Otcbr itemn vm.i.t /j1            51       30       M5      142        69
7.crse  in reserves (-)          -316      269  4,102       1i    -1,.05               351 SYCl          PME _10113 
Oame reeerv"e (ad 7yer)La        1.053     mg   1.911   1,731         66                                                   I
Petrolen Ipate LI                1,35    1,710   1.610   1,1       4.41          Public debt, inluding snarted          19.7
Petroleu aprat f          1        13      196      77       40        34         tu-gmemteed paivate debt               _.A.
Tote!                              19.7
RATE OF 950M*0                                                                       isWTM m Iftic 3ee   03116mti
Thr May Uk 11, 1972              P        1         e        13                                                                 s
luS1 - Re 4.7619                       1U3  - an 11.03                                    ad dibweed              357.4   1.256.2
Rs I - 13S0.21                          as I - 1366.09                         Undioereed                        1*2.9   .17IZ
tetmdiug i_rludiug mdinhese  160.3   1.614.0
re. Fib. 16. 1973-Ja. 7. 192 Irma July 196-ime 16 IjL rma July 196-Ju, 196  IL Fra  July 19-Je 1964 IL Fre July 1934-Jma 16
S I - 1h  9.90                VB61 - Rs 10.55            V361 - Ra 12.75             M31 - a 13.50              1361 - ae 15.27
Rs I - 133010                 S 1 -     .9               R  1-95VAI - 0366.07       We 1 - 136L.74             lA 1 - l0165
La Proviaiscnl.
!1    utay etatLetic t    Pf atia. he bes filly adjusted for dimntimd notes. de talmtlee ad revalutietn of the rupee. aetc. as
fram Jone 30, 1975. leta for 1974M  frm State Ba_ mewce  -r sot strictly campable with lW etistec for ealie  pine.
is ncluding trt YOd.
14Inluding met cabrt-team bterrans ad errar ad emissione.
ft scluding gold reaerwi of abet 1.6  iUi  trw         c
cr ade s  dsriyetiyme.
Nee-saeteed poivete debt serviva ia maeligible.
Lk Ratio af actual debt eeic  to   steat geaf d_, u_e-foetar Canoe c_e ad _w r' runittsucee; debt cevice dae nt include
hart-ter  *r W  berge.
fL  effective Jeery S. 1OU. The rp  iee to           4 with ref erence te ta weigd baet af curmcies. Th sewa
esbmasg rate chi Ic  c-e-wi  VI6 Sr thd  perW  chan.



-38-
Page 1
ITTJ OFr URl GMa   OUATIOUS IN PAKISTAN
A.       IDA CREDITS C  gf Narch 21. 1966) La   A ^
CUSS cilliou)
Credit    fiscal lnim-
Buksz   ..Iu       huiia                                                   burud
104 loans ad credits fully disbursed                 513.4    1,145.15
1366T     1977  Pmnjab Livestock Delopme_t            -          -            2.1
754       1978   Saluinty Control A Seclmation        -          70.0        66.1
877       1979   Balinity Control 6 Reel. (Mardau.    -          60.0        47.2
968       1930   Third  UPPA tower                    -          45.0         2.3
974       1960   Third Niabway                        -          50.0        10.4
11091I    1961   Vocatioeel Training                 -          25.0         7.0
11571L    1981   grain Storase                        -          32.0        14.5
1155.L  1981   Agricultural Research                  -          24.0        14.7
11631g.   1951   Oe-Farc Water Managieent             -          41.0        11.7
1186L/    1952  Industrial Developm_t CtDIP II)       -          30.0         2.8
2122      1982  Fourtb TS eleunication                40.0       -            9.3
2172 -   1982  Fertiliser Industry Rehabilitation   3L85         -           17.1
2247      1933   Rbservoir Mainteme Facilities        10.2       -           10.0
2305      1963  Agricultural Dew. (ADDP V)            10.0       -            5.4
2324      1983   fifth Sui Northrn  ase Pipelins      43.0       -           32.7
1239kL   1962   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitatian    -           40.0        19.8
1243L    1982   Baluchistan  inaor Xrrig. & Agr.      -          14.0        11.4
1256      19B2   Tchnical Assistance                  -           7.0         2.5
1278k    1982   Eleveth Railway Project               -          50.0        35.2
134c    1983   Lbore  rban Developent                 -          16.0        15.5
13501c    1983   Population                           -          11.0        13.2
13551e    1983   Coal Enginring                       -           7.0         5.9
1374/c   1983   Krachi Vater Supply                   -          25.0        19.4
13751e    1983   Pourtb Drainage                      -          65.0        66.3
13SOLI    1983  Agriultural Duvelouet CADDP V)    -              47.8         5.1
2218      1983   Rafi:ary  ginering Project           12.0       -            8.4
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                51.5       -           36.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Cs Delopment 30.0           -           18.3
2380      1934  Industrial Invest mt Credit           50.0       -           41.7
1439k    1984  IndustriAl Investment Credit           -          50.0        36.0
14611c    1984  Integrated Mlill F7|; et Developmnt -            21.0        22.4
1460/e   1984   Second Technical As!u i.ance          -           7.0         7.0
1487k    1984   Command Water Managnent               -          46.5        47.1
14991e    1984   Second Small Industries              -          50.0        39.5
1532ke   1985  Left Sank Outfall Brain - State 1    -           150.0       168.0
15333/    1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Exension   -            5.3         8.6
2499      1985  Fourth VAPDA Poer                    100.0       -          100.0
1602    1985   Second Primary Education              -          52.5        56.8
1603k    1985   Second On-Fars Water Nanagamet        -          34.5        39.6
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                  178.0       -          177.9
2553      1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Ventura   55.0        -           39.4
2556      1985   Fifth  DDA Power                    100.0       -          100.0
264814    1986   IAdustrial Investment Credit        148.0                  148.0
16461d    1986  IndustriAl Investment Credit                      2.0         2.0
1652ld    1986  Karachi Special Development                      70 .0       70.0
Total                                              1,679.6    2,303.8     1,615.1
of which has been repaid                           519.7       49.3
Total now outstanding                              1,159.9    2,254.5
Amount sold                 30.0
of which bas been repaid    23.                                 -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA:                   1J[,1       2.Z5435
Total undicbure d                                  ..746.8      868.3     1,615 1
C  The status of tha projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Excutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Zxclude  the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for pro-
jects in the formr East Pacistan which hae now been taken over by Bangladesh.
k  IDA Credits under the 6tb and 7th Replenishents are denominted in SEs. The
principal and n_n-effective Credits are shown in US$ equivalent at the time of
negotiation. Dibursed smounte are computed at the exchange rte applicble
an the transctio dates.  Undisbksed aounts ae valud at the exchange rate
applicabl on the date of this  tten
not yet effective.



-39-
Page 2
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1986)
Fiscal                                             Amount  In US$   Million
Year    ObliAor              Tvie of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of        Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products              0.63     -         0.63
1959     Adaujee Industries
Ltd.                 Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Iadustries Ltd.      Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                Development
1969-                         Financing              -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products             Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.        Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.            Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.         Food and Food
Processing           2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation     Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78      -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.           Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady         Food and Food
Processing           3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos             Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals      102.16    1.56    103.72
1985     National Dev.        Money and                _-
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market.       4.64    0.37       5.01
1986     Mari Gas             Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      44.63      -       44.63
Total Gross Commitments                  228.58   11.32    239.90
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              165.09    0.38    165.47
Total Commitments Nov Held by IFC         63.49   10.94      74.43
Undisbursed (including participants)      49.88    0.51      50.39



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
EXPORT DEVEWPMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
Tvo years
(b) Agency vhich prepared the project
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Planning
(X) Date of first mission to consider the project
January 1984
{d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 25, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 10, 1986
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) undertake systematic update of all standard rebate
rates and computerization of claims checking process
by March 31, 1987 (para. 49);
(b) initiate a program of "open bonded manufacturing" in
70-80 existing bonded manufacturing warehouses by
March 31, 1987 (para. 49);



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) creation of technical unit by December 31, 1986 to
review, estimate, and update physical input-output
coefficients for all manufactured exports (para. 52);
(d) State Bank of Pakistan to complete investigation of
possibility of using domestic letters of credit to
identify indirect exports and provide them with export
incentives by March 31, 1987 and discuss results with
Bank (para. 51);
(e) State Bank of Pakistan to complete investigation of
practices of comiercial banks with respect collateral
and export credit guarantee scheme and recommend
program of action for increasing access of small- and
non-traditional exporters to export credit by
March 31, 1987 (para. 51); and
The following would be an additional condition of effectiveness:
(i) appointment of person with appropriate experience and
rank to head the Industrial Incentives Reform Cell
(para. 60).



-42-                        ANNtE IV
Th  Wbrid Bnk                                   IllS H Sl.K N.W.    P22  e 4a12o4
ITENIATIONAL BAN FOR IeCONSTRLCTl AM EVELOPMENT  Wuun, OC. 2042  Cabl Addr.: HWTAFRAD
NTERNATOINAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            USA.             Coble AddreN: EVAS
Draft
April 25, 1986
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.V.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Letter of Policy
Export Develowsent Loan
In recent years, industry has made a significant contribution to
growth and balance of payments performuce. Industrial grovth has
sveraged over 9Z p.a., and semi-manufactured and mnufactured exports have
grown rapidly, now comprising about two-thirds of total uerchandise
exports. Improvments ir the policy envirozment bave made an important
contribution to this performance: e.g. encouragement and incentives for
the private sector, better incentives for exports, a more competitive
exchange rate, the liberalization of imports of raw materials and capital
goods, and a relaxation of investment sanctioning requirements.
The Government attaches high priority to the expansion of manufac-
tured exports to compensate for the slowdown in migrant vorkers remittan-
ces and to contribute foreign exchange resources for a growing private and
public sector investment program. To support more rapid export growth,
increased attention needs to be devoted to relative incentives for
exports, improvements in industrial efficiency, and greater reliance on
market forces. Therefore, the Government intends to implement an action
program comprising the following elements:
-       improved export incentives and policy framework;
-       further import liberalization;
-       greater deregulation of entry and pricing; and
-       enhanced public enterprise performance.
Export Incentives
The Government's policy is to strengthen and continuously monitor
the overall incentive framework for exports. The maintenance of an
appropriate exchange rate is crucial to stimulating exports, complementing
the role of tariffs and other incentives in providing appropriate protec-
tion for domestic industry. Exported products would be free of duty on
ITT 440W8 RCA 2482 WU6145                             Y-7040



-43-                       MNNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
imported inputs and domestic indirect tazes, and this principle would be
extended to domestic suppliers of inputs used for exports (indirect
exports) as well. In addition, exporters would be granted liberal access
to credit facilities. Measures already taken or to be taken shortly in
pursuit of these objectives are as follows:
The Exchange Rate. Since January 1982, the rupee has been
delinked from the dollar and managed with respect to a basket of curren-
cies of Pakistan's major trading partners. During the past year, the
rupee has been devalued by 212 in real effective terms against this basket
and now stands some 29X below the December 1981 rate. This, the
Government feels, has played an important role in the recovery of exports-
-particularly, non-traditional exports--which grew by 29Z in the first
half of FY1985-86 as compared with a year earlier. The Government will
continue to monitor the exchange rate with a view towards maintaining
external competitiveness, compensating for any changes in the incentive
regime, and continuing progress towards trade liberalization. In the
monitoring process, the performance of exports is one of the key
indicators of the appropriateness of the exchange rate.
Duty Free Status for Export Sector. The Government intends to
pursue the objective of putting exporters (including indirect exporters)
on a duty and indirect tax free basis through improvements in the Standard
Rebate System and existing import schemes for exporters and the introduc-
tion of an open bonded manufacturing system. To bring this about,
Government intends to: (1) establish an effective system for regularly
estimating and revising physical input-output coefficients for export
products (and domestic inputs used for exports) which will provide the
cornerstone for an effective duty/tax free regime; (2) identify
appropriate instruments for extending export incentives to indirect
exports; and (3) set up the institutional mechanisms to achieve these
purposes.
The standard rebate system was introduced in 1976 to compensate
exporters for customs duty, sales tax, and excise duties paid on the raw
material and components in manufactured exports. While the system ini-
tially served its purpose well, the rebate rates have gotten increasingly
out of line through changes in prices and input-output relationships. We
intend to undertake a systematic updating of the standard rebate rates and
the computerization of the rate fixation and claims checking process.
This process would be completed by March 31, 1987. Thereafter, rebate
rates would be updated on a continuous basis. The Government would also
review mechanisms for extending the standard rebate system to indirect
exporters and make appropriate extensions.
The Government also intends to introduce and promote an open
bonded manufacturing system whereby direct and indirect exporters have
access to tax free, imported and domestic inputs into exports, and control
is maintained at a Central Warehouse Control established in each Customs



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
Collectorate (and not at the factory level) through the establishment of
physical coefficients between inputs and outputs and independent informa-
tion from Customs at import and export. This centralized control system
would be supplemented by periodic unannounced factory visits by customs
staff. The Government intends to introduce this system to the existing
bonded man-facturing warehouses by March 31, 1987 and to extend the system
to other exporters thereafter. The open bonded manufacturing system and
standard rebate system would operate side by side because it is not
feasible to extend the former to commercial exporters and small manufac-
turers with too few exports to warrant the administrative costs.
In addition, in the context of improving the duty-free regime for
exporters, the Government is considering a number of changes to existing
systems and procedures to stimulate exports: (1) to minimize delays,
standard rebates would be paid to exporters upon satisfactory evidence of
shipment (and before the customs verification procedure); (2) the inter-
pretation of the Temporary Import Scheme (whereby inputs which may sub-
sequently be identified in exports may be imported duty free) would be
substantially broadened; and (3) the cost of bonding imported inputs and
bonded manufacturing operations would be substantially reduced and an
alternative system of a charge free lien on the goods to the benefit of
customs with a provision for distraint put in place. Further, domestic
producers of a number of consumer durable items have been allowed to
export to local duty free slops where returning overseas Pakistanis are
allowed to buy foreign products using foreign exchange; such sales are to
be treated as exports and the producers are subject to the same incentive
measures as other exporters.
To establish an effective duty/tax free regime for exporters, the
Government has developed a w-ork program in consultation with the Bank for
which necessary technical assistance is being provided.
Export Financing. Pakistan's system of export credit has expanded
rapidly, and the percentage of eligible exports financed has steadily
increased. In June 1985, a number of modifications were introduced. The
maximum loan period under various schemes was put at 150 days, and the
maximum rate of interest was raised from 2.5% to 6% (with the State Bank
of Pakistan sharing 50Z of the profit in the case of refinancing). This
provided an appropriate term of financing for working capital loans while
reducing the possibilities of abuses induced by inexpensive credit.
Nonetheless, there are further opportunities for improvement. To provide
improved incentives for indirect exporters, the Government is examining
the possibility of granting export credit loans in three parts: (i)
domestic letters of credit issued by the exporter's bank for domestically
supplied inputs (i.e. an inland back-to-back LC); (ii) a letter of credit
issued by the same bank for imported inputs; and (iii) a working capital
loan corresponding to the manufacturer/exporter's value added. This
system is intended to improve the control over the use of export credit,
and the domestic LC may help to identify indirect exporters who will



-45-                     ANNEX TV
Page 4 of 7
become eligible for export credit. The domestic LC system, in conjunction
with the revised rebate system based on physical coefficients, will enable
us to provide other export incentives to indirect exporters as well.
While the coverage of export credit has expanded over time, the Government
is concerned that most of the credit is being extended to large, more
established exporters and to Pakistan's traditional exports. The State
Bank of Pakistan would prepare procedures for the establishment of an
effective domestic LC system and by March 31, 1987 recommend such steps as
are necessary to put it in place. To get at the problem of poor coverage
of smaller and non-traditional exporters, the State Bank of Pakistan would
also examine the practices of commercial banks regarding collateral
requirements and the functioning of the pre- and post-shipment export
guarantee schemes and make recommendations for improving coverage.  This
process would also be completed by March 31, 1987.
Export Quality. Increased attention to the quality of Pakistan's
products is necessary both to improve markets and increase the value
received. While the Pakistan Standard Institution (est. 1958) has estab-
lished over 1,700 industrial standards and has responsibility for the
compulsory certification of some 42 export items, attention to standards
is not widespread outside areas where it is compulsory. The Government
is, therefore, reviewing the policies to improve the quality of exports
and would put forward a plan of action by March 31, 1987 which would be
implemented in the months thereafter.
Institutional Support for Exports. Recognizing the importance of
strong and efficient institutional support for promotion of exports, the
Government has set up an Export Action Group (chaired by the Minister of
Conmmerce) to review the production and export performance of leather
goods, carpets, garments, and fruits and vegetables; assess the con-
straints to realizing a sizeable expansion of these exports within one
year; and make appropriate recommendations. On the recommendation of this
group, a tax holiday has been given to leather garments and the maturity
for export credit loans for carpets extended. We intend to further
strengthen and institutionalize the wurkings of the Export Action Group
by extending product coverage and introducing quarterly meetings between
the Group and relevant export associations.
Improvements in the data base on exports would be helpful to
future policymaking. Data on values, volume and country of destination
by commodity is already readily available. In order to improve the
availability of information on other key variables such as the number of
exporters, size of export orders, methods of financing or payment, and
size of export-related imports, the Government, assisted by local
consultants, intends to establish a computerized "Export Information
System" at the State Bank of Pakistan where much of the relevant informa-
tion is already collected.



-46-                  ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
In addition, to support implementation of the duty free regime
for direct and indirect exporters, Government would establish an ade-
quately staffed technical unit (including engineers, economists, financial
analysts and customs staff). This unit would be responsible for reviewing
and estimating physical input and output coefficients for all direct and
indirect exports, setting RMR and rebate rates and continuously updating
them. The administrative location of this unit would be decided shortly
and the unit would be fully func,ional by December 31, 1986.
Import Restrictions and Tariffs
The Government recognizes that import liberalization is vital to
improving the efficiency of industry as well as altering the relative
incentives between producing for the home market and producing for
exports. Over the past five years, import prohibitions on a. large nuimber
of raw materials and capital goods were removed, reducing the proportion
of industry protected by bans from 44% to well under 30%; at the ssme
time, other import restrictions were removed lowering the proportion of
industry protected by major non-tariff barriers from over 65% to under
4OZ. The import regime was changed from a positive list (permitted
imports) to a negative list (banned imports). In addition, under the Raw
Material Replenishment Scheme, imports of banned or restricted raw
materials and components are allowed for the production of exports; this
policy will continue in force and be extended to indirect exporters.
'While the present foreign exchange difficulties will constrain the
pace of further liberalization, the Government is committed to reducing
the influence of import restrictions on economic decisions and to taking
steps toward their eventual elimination. In its sanctioning process for
medium- and large-scale private and public investments, the Government
will deny approval of projects which rely on high protection for their
financial viability. The Government will also (a) refrain from introduc-
ing new import bans for protective or balance of payments purposes; (b)
measure the nominal protection rate on 150 banned and restricted items on
an annual basis and discuss the findings with the Bank, and (c) undertake
a review of existing import bans on products where there is export poten-
tial or where protection has become redundant and, after consultation with
the Bank, introduce a reduction in the number of these bans starting with
the Import Policy Order of FY1987-88. In addition, a National Taxation
Commission has been created to formulate programs for improving public
sector resource mobilization and the elasticity of the tax system and for
providing for a comprehensive reform of the tariff system. Its recommen-
dations will influence the tariff revisions to be introduced in the
FY1986-87 budget.
The Government has created an Industrial Incentives Reform Cell
(IIC) in the Ministry of Finance with the responsibility of analyzing
and preparing recommendations for trade incentives reform. The Cell: (a)
investigates fiscal anomalies; and (b) carries out studies/surveys of the



-47-                        ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
cost structure and protection in the industrial subsectors to provide
analytical support for changes in tariffs and quantitative restrictions.
The Government intends to introduce a phased multi-year program of trade
reform beginning in FY1987-88. The Government will commission a study of
textiles, engineering, and the chemical (and allied) subsectors which
would identify products with promising prospects for import substitution
or for export; identify major constraints to improvements in efficiency;
propose medium-term reform programs for tariffs/import prohibitions and
show the likely impact on production, employment, revenues and imports;
and propose financial and technical assistance packages to aid the
restructuring process. Based on the findings of the study, the Government
would begin a phased, multi-year reform of tariffs and import restrictions
in key subsectors beginning in FY1987-88. The IIRC would supervise and
participate in the study which would be carried out by consultants. The
IIRC's work program has been discussed with the World Bank and its staff-
ing would be appropriately increased to take or- this exercise.
Deregulation
To assist in improving the efficiency of the industrial sector
in Pakistan, the substitution of private decisions and market signals for
administrative decisions and controlled prices in a number of key areas
is vital. In recent years, considerable progress had been made.
Sanctioning limits for most industrial subsectors have been raised to Rs
300 million in total project size and Rs 50 million in foreign exchange
content. Nonetheless, further progress needs to be made: price controls
remain in a few key areas, the scope of sanctioning requirements is still
too wide, and there are sectors where private participation is
circumscribed. For this reason, the Government has established a National
Deregulation Commission composed of a number of prominent members of the
national assembly, civil servants, and private businessmen, and chaired
by the Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan. Its terms of reference
are to review the necessity of existing controls and regulations and to
make recommendations for the elimination of all unnecessary controls.
Specifically, the Commissi-in is examining: (a) further reductions in
investment sanctioning requirements; (b) removal of price/distribution
controls and termination of cost-plus contracts in wheat, atta, ghee,
chemical fertilizers, and petroleum products; (c) privatization of the
domestic and export trade in cotton and rice; (d) privatization of power
distribution; (e) establishment of an autonomous telephones and telecom-
munication corporation; and (f) the removal of restrictions on the estab-
lishmert of private commercial banks. The Commission has been instructed
to make periodic reports with recommendations. Reports on vegetable
ghee/edible oil, fertilizers, wheat, and telecommunications have been
completed. The Government has acted on the edible oils subsector by
(i) decontrolling consumer prices; (ii) allowing unrestricted bulk imports
by the private sector; (iii) introducing a variable tariff to stabilize
domestic prices; and (iv) authorizing the sanctioning of additional
capacity. Actions in the other subsectors are expected shortly.



-48-
Page 7 of 7
Public Manufacturing Enterprises
The Government's development strategy ascigns a key role to the
private sector as the engine of growth and industrialization.
Nonetheless, public manufacturing enterprises play an important role in
several key subsectors and a number of reforms have been introduced to
increase their autonomy and efficiency. Such reforms include increased
delegation of decisionmaking authority to the holding company level, the
introduction of a more flexible, competitive salary structure, and the
elimination of budget allocations for these enterprises making them
dependent on their own retained earnings and comercial borrowings to
finance investment.  More recently, with World Bank assistance, a "public
enterprises signalling system" was established consisting of a management
information system which enables the Government to establish and monitor
performance targets and reward managers according to results. In 1985/86,
52 out of 68 public manufacturing units would participate, representing
over 9OZ of sales and virtually full coverage as most of the remaining
enterprises are very small, chronic loss makers, or unsuited to perfor-
mance monitoring (e.g. consulting or marketing companies). In addition,
this year the Government has undertaken two further initiatives. First,
medium-term corporate planning would be introduced giving managers a
longer perspective about product lines, investments and financing, man-
power planning, research and development, and hence providing a longer-
term context in which the annual performance targeting and monitoring
would be set. The system would be introduced on a pilot basis in about
five enterprises in 1985-86, and based on the results, would be introduced
in all enterprises in 1986-87. Secondly, the Government has decided to
sell Rs 2 billion in shares of public enterprises; and a Disinvestment
Committee (consisting of Ministers of Production, Industry, and Finance)
has been set up to guide this process. NDFC, ICP, and BEL have been
appointed underwriters. In the first phase, they are developing plans to
offer shares for the following six companies: Pakistan State Oil, Sui Gas
Transmission Corporation, Sui Northern Gas Pipeline, Pak-Saudi Fertilizer
and Dandot Cement, and Pakistan International Airways. In addition, a
list of firms for disinvestment has been drawn up, a number have been
offered for sale, and bids are under evaluation. In the coming months,
the Government expects to continue making progress in divesting holdings
in public enterprises.
Sincerely,
Mian Mohammad Yasin Khan Wattoo
Minister of Finance
Government of Pakistan



ANNEX V
Page I of 6
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Policy Area                                     Obiectives                        Recant Actions Taken                     Actions to be Taken
1.  Exchange Rate                   Maintain competitiveness          letween February and December 1985    GOP has reaffirmed Its coslitment
of domestic producers In          real effective exchangs rate fell        to maintaining a competitive
international markets through   by some 21% erasing previous appreci- exchange rate and to making further
appropriate adjustments in        ation and reaching level some 291        adjustments as necessary Should export
exchange rates.                   below December 19E1 level,               volumes not expand appropriately.
II. Export Promotion
A. Reform of rebates/           Extend direct and indirect        Level end coverage of Compensatory    GOP to undertake systematic update
drawbacks of tariffs on    exporters' access to imported   Rebate (export subsidy) system               of all standard rebate rates and
imported inputs.             Inputs at world prices thus       Increased; (note: such rebates           the computerization of rate fixa-
improving their ability to        likely to be eliminsted/phased           tion and claims cheCking process.
compete in international          out as exporters' access to inputs    Standard rebate system to be
markets.                          at duty/tax free prices Improves         extended to indirect as well as
with appropriate adjustments in         direct exporters.  Process to be
exchange rates to assure that            completed by March 31. 1987
exports are not discouraged.)           and thereafter rates to be updated
on continuous basis.
GOP to establish "open bonded'
manufacturing system' whereby diroct
and indirect exporters have access
to duty/tax free inputs with            I
controls maintained through physi-   JP
cal output-input coefficients and       '
Customs records of imports of
Inputs and exports of product by
each exporter. System to be esta-
blished in 70-80 existing bonded
manufacturing warehouses by
March 31. 1987 and extended
to other exporters thereafter.
To support establishiment of duty
free regime for direct and
Indirect exporters through
Improvements In administration of
standard rebates and creation of
open-bonded manufacturing system.
GOP would create and adequately
staff technical unit by Decemer 31.
1987 to review estimate. and
update physical Input-output



6
1*liA. arer                                     Ob9ectk vU                        Recent Actlne TAken                     Actions to be Taen
coefficients for all manufactured
exports.
B. Exoort Pinance
- export credit & credit    Improve scope and Coverage          increase in concessional rate for       To assist Indirect exporters,
guarantee schemes.         of existing export finance         export credit from 2.5  to 65 to       State Bank of Pakistan to investi-
schemes to better suit            reduce abuses and establishment of    gating possibility of providing
exporters noedx and extend        standard meturity of 5 months for        export credit loans In three
benefits of incentivesifinance  sit types of short-term credit,            partos (a) doenstic lettor of
to Indirect exporters,  maller  Exporters of domesticelly mnufec-    credit lssued by exporter's bank
exporters snd exporters ot        tured machinery to be extendod credit for dometically supplied inputel
non-traditional products.         at eS (pro-ah?pment) and 7% (post-    (b) a letter of credit From saw
shipment) for 12.5 years maturity.    bank for foreign suppl1ad lnputot
and (e) working capital corres-
ponding to the exporters valuo-
added. Domestic letter of credit
would provide m_an of Identifying
indirect exporters and providing
them with ezport credit
and other export incentives.
Stoto Sank's review to te
completed by Mareh 31, 1s7.
discussed with GOP and World Sank.
and t1" table established for
Implementing schema.
State bank of Pakistan to review
practices of cOmercial banks
regardino collateral requirements
and functioning of export credit
ouarantee schom to determine
whether improvoemnts are poasible
which would lwprevo access of
smallor exporters end exporters
of Qon-tr dition8l products to
export credit. State Sank of
Pakistan to complete rewlew by
March S31 1g7. discuss find-
Ings with GOP end World Sank, and
establish timetable for Imple-
mentation of reca Rundations.



AME X V
Policy Area                                     Objectives                        Recent Actions Taken                     Actions tobe Taken
D.               to             Improve quality of exports        GOP has established axport Action        GOP to examine policy needs
SIODOrUtEJOrta               through establishment of          Group to review export performance    regarding industrial standard  and
better certification and          In loether goods, carpets, garmnts.  put forward a plan of action by
stsndards.  Improve quality       and fruits and vegutableas Identify   March 31. 1937 to be discuseed
of export statistics,             constraints and make policy             with Bank and implemnted according
recofmendsttons.  On Group's            to a tietable aeptable to the
recomnendations  tax holiday has        Bank.
been granted to leather garments and
maturity for export credit for          GOP to establish computerized
carpets has been extended.              'Export Information System' In State
lank of Pakistan to Improve amount
and availability of export statisties.
III. Import Reaime
A. Import Tariffs and           To improve efficiency of          - Tariff reductions In FV19Y 5-I -       Government (a) would not Introduce
Restrictions,                domestic industry by              Budget of number of itom  - e.g.         any now bans for protectiv, or
reducing average level and        computer hardware & software, locks,  balance of payments purpose a (b) would
dispersion of protection and    components of alIctricpl equipment,   maoure the nominal fimplicit)
introducing better relative       Iron and steel items and consuner       protection rates annually on about 1W
incentives between production   electrical goods.  However, teriffs   key items on banned  nd restricted lists
for export and for domestic       Increased across the board by 5%        and discuss findings with Janka and
market.                           Import surcharge.                        te) would deny investment approval         I
to projects which are                    %A
- Import Policy Order for FP19l5-lU   dependent on bans  ndlor high
makes following freely importables    tariffs for their financial viability.
tractors of 7-15 hp CWIg and
component parts for trailers over       Government to review existing i1port
20 tons (public asseablers only)        bans on products where there Is export
potential or where pretection has bec me
redundant and, after consultation with
lank. Introduce reduction In suh bent
starting In Import Policy Order for
PV1907-88. List do produets to be
reviewed agreed at noegtiatioen nd
consultations to take place not later
than Septeaber 30. 14W and
January 31. 1u7.
- In Socoegli Preerm  fgr Textile       To provide an Input Into m_dum-term
Stctor  mans oliminatod on Imports    reform of tred  regim, GOP
otftextile machinery and duty           would cemission 'Industrial Efficiency
reduced from 35% to  0%. Imports       Inprovoeent * Oevelcpm_nt Strategy'
of open-end rotors debanned and         study covering textiles



AMUEX V
1., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~P1. ,', -
Policy Area                                      Objectives                          Recent Actions Taken                     Aclions to be Taken
simports of shuttlelees and wide-        (an allied products); enineerings
width loom  allowed duty free.           and chemicals and allied product
Duties reduced on man-made               suibsectors to determine causes of
fibre.                                    inefficiencyl establish mediump-
term trade rugine reform progrims and
- creation of National Taxation          determine Its likely effects on
Comission. to examine ways               production. imports, and tax
to Improve resource mobiliza-            revenuesl and desimn rehblitta-
tion and elasticity of tax                tion programs to assist sub-
system and to formulate pro-             sectors to adjust to reforms by
gram of trade regime reform wtth          Increasing efficiency.
due consideration for efficiency
and equity.  Comission's recoomeend-  GOP Intends to Introduce phased. 4-5
at ions would Influence tariff revi-   year program of tariff/import restric-
slone to be Introduced In forth-         tions reform beginning In FV1ab7-U.
coming FVI98B-87 Oudget.                 Program would Involve substantial
elimination of Import bans aned
substantial reduction In structure
of tariffs in key inedustrial subsectors
including the three
subsectora noted above accomipanied.
where necessary. by rehabilitation
programe to provide requiredI
financial and technical assistance        La
to facilitate process of adjust en t. ~
I. Goenen   aacitv to            To Improve Government's            Creation and staffing of                  IZIC to supervise 'Industrial
Analyze Trhade Reolne        capacity to prepare pra-            Industrial Incentives Reform              Efficiency lmprovement and Develop-
Reforms                      grams of reform and ta              Call.                                     ment Strategy' study.
analyze their potential                                                      In annual consultations.
Impacts on production,                                                       GOP and lank taoagree on (1) work
employment. tariff/tax                                                       program for Cells (2) staffing
revenue and Imparts/exports.                                                 requirements en4 timetable for
recruitments and (3) tertmical
assistance requirements. Appoint-
ment as,head,of ZINC of person
witn appropriate qulificmtions
and.rank would be additioal condi-
tion of effectiveness of this loan.
IV.  Deregulation                     Ta improve efficiency of              elimination of cost-plus               National Deregulation Commission
Industry through Increased         pricing In cement,                        to make periodic reo"rts and
competition, ease of entry,                                                  recowmandatioins.  Commission has



AUIX V
Page 5 of 6
Policy Area                                      Obiectives                         Recent Actions T-ken                      Actions to be Taken
and reliance on market forces,                                               submitted reports Ono  fertilizer
- Introduction of now gas producer    pricing. entry and pricing in
pricing formula whereby gas price        edible oils. wheat pricing,  nd
Is set at discount trom International autonomy In telecomunications.
fuel price in advance of exploration  Of these. Government has recently
and discount varies by concesseon        deregulated edible oils by froe1ng
accordino to local conditions.           up prines, n mportis endentry.
Government would iannuially
- establishment of tariff/pricing        discuss with the lank recome_nds-
arrangements for steel.                  tions of Deregulation Commission
and progress In the implementation
- establishment of National              thereof.
Deregulation Coa:-ission to make
recosmmndstions to reduce
government intervention and
administrative controls.
Commission's TOR includes5
Investment sanctioning
price controls/cost plus pricing
In fertilizers, wheat, vegetable
gheo
private commercial banking
privatization of power distribution                                             '
privatiastion of cotton trade                                                  Id
*autonomy tor telephone/telegraph
company
v.  Public Manufacturing             To improve industrial              - Governmnt decision to dis-              - Government expected to make
Enterorises                      efficiency by disinvesting         invest Rs 2 billion of Its                substantial progress In
government shares In public        holdings In public enterprises            divesting holdings In public
manufacturing enterprises and   and creation of Disinvestment                enterprises.
by introduction of corporate    Committee to guide this process.
medium-term financial planning  Underwriters preparing program
Into key enterprises,              to sell Rs I billion
In government shares In six
companies in transportation.
Industry, and energy sectors.
List of public firma for
outright sole has been drawn up,
number have been offered for
sale, ano bids are under
evaluation.



Policy Area                                    Obicttyem                        Recent Actions Taken                     atieno to be Takan
-  Signlling Systen" setting             System of  ediumr-term inve_tment
up mnagement Infermtion                 end financial planmni  to be
system. annual perfor nce               established an pilot Oea1s In
targots, and bonus aystem  for          five public manufacturing.
ianagariel ranks which by PYfV12-8l   enterprises during FY195-16 and
Covers 52 of eO enterprises with over extended to all such enterprises
o0f of total soles in public manu-    during FY12I6-C7.
feacturing.
IA



-55-
ANNEX VI
Table 1
HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED GROWTH RATES, 1972/73-1994/95
(percent)
1972/73-1977/78   1977/78-1984/85   1985/86-1994/95
Real Growth Rates
GNP                               5.2               6.4                5.2
GDP (factor cost)                 5.0               6.3                5.8
Agriculture                     2.3               3.4                3.5
Industry                       3.8                9.8                9.0
Consumption                       5.7               6.4                5.1
Fixed investment                  5.1               4.4                6.9
Merchandise exports              -4.0               6.2                6.6
Merchandise imports               7.0               6.7                4.1
Share of GNP                   1977/78           1984/85            1994/95
Gross fixed investment           16.7              14.6               16.5
Financed by:
Gross domestic savings         8.0                4.7               12.9
Foreign savings                8.7                9.9                3.6
Source: Planning and Development Division and staff estimates.



-56-
Table 2
BALAJCE OF PAINDI1S PIRWECTIONS, 1986/87-1994/95
(millions of US dollars)
FY87    Fn88       FY89     FY90      FY91    Fn92    Fn93         FT94    Fn95
Trede Salb   cK              -2.896   -3.01 - 3.:101   -3 146       fjZ    -3.452   -3.642   -3.809   -3.932
Exports                    3,335    3,915    4,615    5,465    6,283    6,968    7,753    8,647    9,668
Iport.                     6,231    6.925    7,716    8,611    9,514   10,420   11,395   12,456   13,600
Invisibles (net)             1.837    1.837    L.U.   L.2          L i    L=1    1.549    L.5Z          1.508
Remittances                 2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2.575    2,652    2,732    2,814    2,899
Interest Pay.               -561      -554      -648     -730      -847      -971   -1,100   -1,259   -1,410
Other (net)                  -102     -109      -141     -149      -148      -128      -83       -33        19
Current A/C  al.            -1.059   -1.173   -1.320    1.55   -1.652   -1.899   -2.093   -2.287   -2.424
Lone-term Capital             1.138    1502    1.666    2.041    2.214    2,490    2L653    2.626    26L89
Official: gross disb.      1,797    1,861    2,196    2,574    2,783    3,011    3,261    3,497    3,771
amortization      -767     -785      -836     -862      -892      -981   -1,101   -1,268   -1,446
Financial markets:
groms disbursements        320       670       741      562       660      876       949       903      971
amortization              -212      -244      -235     -233      -337     -416      -456      -506     -607
Reserve & Other Can.            -7      -3<       -276     -1        -S62      -59      -560      -339       i
Change in reserves            102     -20V      -369     -456      -524      -635     -642      -457     -395
Other                        -189      125        93      -60        38        44       82       118       130
Memo Items
Current Balance/GDP        -2.9       -2.8      3.0       -2.9    -2.8    -2.9       -2.9       -2.9    -2.8
Debt Service RatioLa        25.1      22.8    20.7        19.1    19.3    19.6       19.9       21.0    21.8
ReservesImonths of
imports            1.2       1.4      1.6         2.0     2.3      2.6      2.9        3.0      3.0
/a  Debt service over exports of goods and services.  It includes interest
and repayments in IHF programs.



lBRD 1624 8R
64-                               8-j7'                                   LJ S SR   M57         AY 1W3
j J_ A~H I NA
PAKISTAN                                                     ,/ 
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o    CITIES AND TOWNS
-     NATIONAL ROADS                                                        )
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                               Q,
-      " | RAILWAYS                                      - ~,
+    AI RPORTS                                       1 '..\ k                 - Appp..,.,. ,.   d ol
-  -   PROVINCIAL BOE-NDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   -    '84AMA^ AD
RIVERS
AFGHANISTAN                                                      P
-2                                      NCA                                                                                21
ISLAMIC       j                          C,_                             y. 
REPUBLIC OF -.
I RAN         .0                                                                             irwdBr  - N  0  3|0    400
j_                          .                                                   0 5  t1 ( N  D   <  a   o  so    .0    Un   ;oO   250
(                                                  $iNa,.bshok                                   M,If:
*.;                                                             -       t;- Bnd..~               nra - ; uJ-{ , 3 ' 6u- -t . .
Arabian    S4o  :-5. Zs  ~-n- |
.r }  .  '       .   -  "  ,-,  .  ,i~arr.,.au' -                                                      Au'~. .',.               '     ',''-T  '?  






