Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21917-BUR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.3 MILLION (US$22 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
HIV/AIDS DISASTER RESPONSE PROJECT
June 14, 2001
Human Development Unit III
Country Department 15
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 22, 2001)
Currency Unit = Franc CFA
731 FCFA = US$1.00
US$0.0137 = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACT Africa                              AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS                                    Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
API                                     AIDS Program Effort Index
ARVT                                    Anti-retroviral Therapy
BSS                                     Behavioral Surveillance Survey
BCC                                     Behavioral Change Communication
CAMEG                                   Central Procurement Unit for Essential Drugs
CISSE                                   Health and Epidemiologic Surveillance Center
CNLS                                    National HIV/AIDS/STI Council
CTPLS                                   Technical Provincial AIDS Committee
CTVLS                                   Technical Village AIDS Committee
DAF                                     Administrative and Financial Department
DEP                                     Planning and Studies Department
DHS                                     Demographic and Health Survey
DMP                                     Department of Preventive Medicine
DOTS                                    Directly Observed Treatment Short-term
DRS                                     Regional Health Directorate
GPN                                     General Procurement Notice
GTZ                                     German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIPC                                    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HTA                                     High Transmission Area
IAPSO                                   Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IEC                                     Information, Education & Communications
IPAA                                    Intemational Partnership Against AIDS in Africa
KAP                                     Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
MAP                                     Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region
MIS                                     Management lnformation System
MOH                                     Ministry of Health
PMU                                     Project Management Unit
PLWHA                                   People Living with HIV and AIDS
PNDS                                    National Health and Nutrition Project
PNDSAII                                 Second Agricultural Services Development Project
PNGT2                                   Community Based Rural Development Project
PPLS                                    Population and AIDS Control Project
PRSP                                    Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
SP/CNLS                                 Secretariat of the National HIV/AIDS/STI Council
SP/CONAPO                               Secretariat of the National Population Council
STI                                     Sexually Transmitted Infection
UNAIDS                                  Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
VCT                                     Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Vice President:         Callisto Madavo
Acting Country Director:             Miquel Saponara
Sector Manager:    Rosemary Bellew
Task Team Leader:   Miriam Schneidman



BURKINA FASO
HIV/AIDS DISASTER RESPONSE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      16
3. Benefits and target population                                                     16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           22
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         45
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          66
Annex I 1: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   68
Annex 12: Key Implementation Steps                                                     72
Annex 13: Contracting of Non Govenmuental Organizations                                74
Annex 14: Epiderniological Situation                                                   77
Annex 15: Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                                82
Annex 16: Supervision Arrangements                                                     85
MAP(S)
IBRD 28673



BURKINA FASO
HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: June 14, 2001                               Team Leader: Miriam Schneidman
Country Manager/Director: Miquel Saponara         Sector Manager/Director: Rosemary Bellew
Project ID: P071433                               Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    [XI Credit    1 I Grant       ] Guarantee   [ I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 22.0 (SDR 17.3)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
|___________________________________              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.30           0.00          1.30
IDA                                                           15.90           6.10         22.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              0.20           0.00          0.20
Total:                                                        17.40           6.10         23.50
Borrower: BURKINA FASO
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Address: 03 BP 712 Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Mr. Seydou Kabre
Tel: (226) 316782               Fax: (226) 308659           Email: ppls@cenatrin.bf
Other Agency(ies):
COMITE NATIONAL DE LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
Address: 01 BP 7009 Ouagadougou 01
Contact Person: Dr. Andre Joseph Tiendrebeogo
Tel: (226) 324188           Fax: (226) 314001          Email: spcnls@fasonet.bf
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual    1.70        4.60       5.90       6.30      3.50
Cumulativel   1.70       6.30      12.20      18.50     22.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
X-S 'AD F- R.w Mc 200






BURKINA FASO
HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: June 6, 2001                                Team Leader: Miriam Schneidman
Country Manager/Director: Miquel Saponara         Sector Manager/Director: Rosemary Bellew
Project ID: P071433                               Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ j Loan    [X] Credit    ( ] Grant    [1 Guarantee      [3 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 22.0 (SDR 17.3)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.30           0.00          1.30
IDA                                                           15.90           6.10         22.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              0.20           0.00          0.20
Total:                                                        17.40           6.10         23.50
Borrower: BURKINA FASO
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Address: 03 BP 712 Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Mr. Seydou Kabre
Tel: (226) 316782                    Fax: (226) 308659               Email: ppls@cenatrin.bf
Otner Agency(ies):
COMITE NATIONAL DE LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
Address: 01 BP 7009 Ouagadougou 01
Contact Person: Dr. Andre Joseph Tiendrebeogo
Tel: (226) 324188             Fax: (226) 314001                Email: spcnls@fasonet.bf
Estimated disbursements Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006   l
AnnuaIL   1.70        4.60       5.90       6.30      3.50
Cumulative    1.70       6.30      12.20      18.50     22.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
00S PAD Fpm F#v 0d,. 2:00



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
1.1    Background This project is an integral part of the USS500 million Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP) approved by the Board on September 12, 2000 (Document No.
IDA/R2000-155). The overarching goal of the MAP is to intensify action against the epidemic across
Africa. The MAP has been structured as a horizontal adaptable program lending instrument, which
consists of individual country operations. The govermment has fulfilled all eligibility criteria for
participation in the MAP.
/ First, under the leadership of the Minisby of Health, and in close collaboration with Burkina's
technical andfinancial partners, the 2001-05 national HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections
strategic plan and the 2001 emergency HIV/AIDS/STIplan have now been finalized. These
documents, adopted on May 9, 2001, provide a sound framework for the government to coordinate all
assistance targeted to the national program. The plans were prepared in a highly participatory fashion,
which augurs well for ownership and sustainability. The strategic areas for IDA support are outlined in
this document. They represent only part of the total needs of the national program and are
complementary to activities supported by other development partners.
/   Second, on May 9, 2001 the government took the decision to establish a national HIV/AIDS/STI
coordinating body within the President's office. The Conseil National de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et
les IST (CNLS), to be presided over by the president of Burkina, will be responsible for setting policies
and strategies and mobilizing resources. The Permanent Secretariat (SP-CNLS) will coordinate the
technical, day-to-day aspects of the program. These new institutional arrangements are expected to
enhance the program's visibility, strengthen national leadership, and improve coordination of
multi-sectoral activities.
/ Third, the government has a proven track record of channelling funds through NGOs and
community associations and intends to continue tapping the creative potential of these organizations
under the MAP.
/ Fourth, the government team has agreed upon a set of efficient procedures for channelling Jirnds
to multiple stakeholders. The goal is to introduce more flexible procedures, and to adopt a contractual
approach based on performance standards for decentralized management of funds.
1.2    The overall objective of this operation is to assist the government in implementing the 2001-05
HIV/AIDS strategic plan, in order to slow the spread and mitigate the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
To this end, the project would expand access nationwide to prevention, care, and treatment with an
emphasis on vulnerable groups, such as youth, women of childbearing age, commercial sex workers, and
highly mobile workers. It would also strengthen the capacity of public, private and community institutions
to design, implement, and monitor HIV/AIDS workl programs. The specific objectives of the project would
be to: (i) scale up, expand, and improve preventive activities in an effort to lower the risks of
transmission; (ii) strengthen capacity to provide care, treatment and support to those infected or affected
by the epidemic; and (iii) mitigate the socio-economic impact on affected households and communities.
- 2 -



We have run out of analogues for AIDS.
T*e most common parallel .. ks-. the
hbuonla plague. But AWHVh more
hnsiifous, more /nvsible, and far more
endurlng  This modem plague Is truly
wthyo precedent.
Callisto Madavo, Durban Symposium
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1      Key performance indicators are included in Annex I and would include:
Output                                             Outcome
Prevention       Knowledge                                           Behavior
-Increase from 1998/99 to 2004/05 the percentage of  -Decrease from 1998/99 to 2004/05 the
sexually active individuals who knoow they can avoid  percentage of non-married individuals who
contracting HIV by using a condom:                 report having 2 or 3 partners:
*        Females (15-59): from 24% to 50%          *   Females: from 4% to 2%
*         SMales (15-59): from 57% to 80%          *   Males: from 13% to 10%
-Increase from 1998/99 to 2004/05 the percentage of  -Increase from 1998/99 to 2004/05 the
sexually active individuals who know that a person who    percentage of men who report having used
looks well can be infected by HIV:                 condoms during the past 12 months from 13%
*        Females:                                  to 17%
(a)      Rural areas: from 42% to 60%
(b)      Urban areas: 78% to 90%                   -Increase of 20 percent in condom utilization
*        Males:                                    rates among priority groups Behavioral
(c)      Rural areas: from 67% to 75%              Surveillance Survey (BSS)
(d)      Urban areas: from 88% to 92%
Services
-Increase of 20 percent in the number of sexually
active population receiving voluntary testing and
counseling
Care and         Services/Activities                                 Discrimination and Stigmna
Mitigation       -Increase by 20 percent in the number of infected   -Decrease of 20 percent in proportion of
people treated for opportunistic infections in     PLWHA reporting discrimination and
participating provinces                            stigmatization
-Increase of 20 percent in the number of people living
with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) who receive home based
care in participating provinces
-Increase of 25 percent in the number of communities
providing orphan care and support in participating
provinces
2.2      In addition to the indicators noted above the following process indicators would also be collected
and monitored: (i) share of line ministries, provinces, and conmmunities that have prepared HIV/AIDS work
programs; (ii) number of associations of People Living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHA) that are
participating in the project; (iii) lag between submission of plans and approval, by level (national,
community, NGO); (iv) lag between approval of plans and disbursements by level; and (v) percentage of
provinces/conmmunities that have mapped out high transmission areas.
- 3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. IDA/R2000-195        Date of latest CAS discussion: November 30,
2000
1.1    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and CAS Goals Supported by Project The government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (discussed at the Board on June 30, 2000, Document No.
IDA/SecM2000-313) was designed in a highly participatory fashion by a government team, illustrating
high levels of ownership and commitment. The PRSP focuses on reducing poverty by: (i) accelerating
broad-based, equitable growth; (ii) ensuring access of the poor to basic social services (health, education,
water); (iii) increasing employment and income generating opportunities for the poor; and (iv) promoting
good governance. The PRSP identifies human capital development as one of the overarching strategies to
poverty reduction. It highlights the importance of increasing access of the poor to basic social services,
including health. The PRSP recognizes that given the prominence of HIV/AIDS in the country's
epidemiological profile, it will be essential to strengthen the ability of the health system to cope with the
disease. The proposed project contributes directly to the objective of addressing the AIDS epidemic while
contributing indirectly to the goal of strengthening human capital.
1.2    The PRSP highlights the potentially devastating effects of the epidemic on virtually all aspects of
the economy, to the extent that it would lead to an exacerbation of poverty and a reduction in economic
growth. With a per capita GDP of US$240 (1997), Burkina Faso ranks amongst the poorest countries in
the world and is one of the lowest in the UNDP human development index (172 out of 175 countries). The
country also lags behind regional averages for Sub-Saharan Africa (Figurel). The overall incidence of
poverty remains high with about 45 percent of the population falling below the poverty line, which implies
an annual per capita income of only US$74 equivalent.
Figure 1: Comparative Indicators
Indicator                                 Burkina Faso           Sub-Saharan Africa Average
Literacy Rate                                 36.0                        57.0
Life Expectancy (years)                       46.0                        52.0
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)              108.6                        91.0
Matemal Mortality Rate (per 100,000)         930.0                        822.0
The government recognizes that the AIDS epidemic would generate large micro and macro socio-economic
costs, particularly to the extent that it affects disproportionately adults in their most productive years. At
the family and community levels, the epidemic is exacerbating poverty by generating a large and
unsustainable financial burden on affected households (e.g. medical costs, care of orphans, lost revenues).
Children in these households are forced to drop out of school to assist the family, which implies that they
fall behind academically and face increasing hardships when the parents are no longer alive. It is
estimated that the epidemic is producing up to 35,000 orphans annually. Orphans who have lost one parent
have been found to have a 50 percent probability of attending school while those who lost both parents
have only a 10 percent chance of getting an education. The government estimates that the economic impact
of AIDS is already running at about US$25 million per year. This implies an estimated annual loss in
GDP of roughly 0.5 percent for the past five years and a projected loss of 0.8 to 1.0 percent for the next
five years (Auregan, April 2000).
-4 -



1.3    The latest Country Assistance Strategy supports the government's overall poverty reduction
strategy, identifying control of the epidemic as a key development objective. The CAS lays out the
following strategies for providing support to the government in the fight against this devastating pandemic:
(i) mainstreamning HIVIAIDS activities into all areas of IDA assistance; (ii) continuing our policy
dialogue with authorities to ensure that HIPCfunds are targetedfor critical HIV/AIDS activities; (iii)
ensuring that funds from the on-going Population and AIDS Control Project are effectively used for
priority interventions; and (iv) preparing this fast track HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project.
1.4    HIV/AIDS Situation Burkina Faso has the second highest HIV/AIDS infection rate in West
Africa. With an overall HIV prevalence rate of about 7.2 percent (1997), the country is in the generalized
phase of the epidemic, with the disease having spread to the general population. HIV infection rates
amongst pregnant women rose from less than 2 percent in the mid 1980s to over 7 percent a decade later
with rates as high as 9-10 percent found in some studies. By contrast, rates among vulnerable groups in
various surveys were substantially higher: TB patients: 34 percent; STI clinic patients: 16-42 percent;
commercial sex workers: 15-60 percent (see Annex 14). The main mode of transmission is heterosexual
intercourse with perinatal transmission on the rise. Infection rates among infants born to HIV+ mothers
during 1987/93 were as high as 20-25 percent at the Banfora Hospital in the province of Comoe (Source:
US Census Bureau Population Division). The age groups most affected are adults in their most productive
years and young girls.
Figure 2
HIV Prevalence Pates by Age (15-24) and
Gender, Selected Countries
I Men~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4
1.5    Large gender disparities in HIV prevalence rates highlight the unequal nature of relations between
males and females, and the importance of addressing these concerns in an effort to stem the spread of AIDS
in Burkina. As in some neighboring countries, HIV prevalence rates among young women 15-24 in
Burkina are more than twice as high as among their male counterparts (Figure 2), highlighting their
vulnerability and economic inequality. Data from similar contexts suggest that the younger the age group
the larger the gender gap in HIV prevalence rates, emphasizing not only the greater vulnerability of young
girls but also the importance of reaching this group at an increasingly early age.
1.6    Geographic areas characterized by heavy intemal and external migratory flows are
disproportionately affected, to the extent that there is a heavy concentration of individuals and an increase
in high-risk sexual behavior. The limited data on HIV infection rates from sentinel surveillance sites depict
a mixed picture in terms of trends in infection rates, highlighting the need for more reliable data for
monitoring the epidemic. From 1997 to 1999 there appears to be a declining trend in some areas
(Bobo-Dioulasso, Saint-Camille, Ouahigouya, and Tenkodogo) and a rise in otler regions (Kossodo
- 5 -



and Gaoua), as can be seen from Figure 3. These data need to be interpreted with care, however, as
declining trends in HIV prevalence may imply that Burkinabe are now adopting safer sexual practices or it
may mean that HIV infected people are dropping out of the population tested because they have died or are
too sick to go to a health facility.
Figure 3
HIV Prevalence Rates of Pregnant Women
at Sentinel Surveillance Sites, 1997-1999
10.00%
9.00%
8.00%
7.00%
6.00%
5.00% 4                      MM           a        i ;qE 1997 
4.00%                                       9
4.00%                                     * 199
0 1999
2.00%
0.00%
1.7    The cumulative number of reported AIDS cases has increased rapidly over the past decade,
reaching about 17,000 in 2000 (Figure 4). These AIDS cases are believed to represent only a fraction of
the actual cases because of serious underreporting and the general stigrna associated with the disease. As
in other countries, many people living with HIV/AIDS remain silent about the disease and are reluctant to
seek care, particularly as 'coming out' may often imply rejection by their family and friends.
Figure 4
Cumulative Number of Reported
AIDS Cases, 1986-99
20000
15000
10000
50000     -       ..     I      iI
I-P  I-P   *   #0-6-
-6 -



1.8    The rapid rise in HIV infection rates in Burkina Faso is being paralleled by a worsening TB
epidemic. Given the potential synergies between HIV/AIDS and TB it makes eminent sense
epidemiologically and economically to envision coordinated or joint actions. Tuberculosis is the leading
cause of death among people with HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. This is due to widespread TB
infection (approximately 30 percent of the population in Burkina Faso is already infected with TB) and the
ability of HIV co-infection to prompt half of TB carriers to develop active TB. At present, there are
approximately 16,000 new cases of TB each year in Burkina Faso. The estimated annual new TB case rate
(140 per 100,000) is similar to that of Kenya and Uganda, where tuberculosis has become a high public
health priority along with HIV/AIDS. In these countries, as is likely the case in Burkina Faso, the number
of annual new TB cases has more than tripled in the last 12 years, primarily due to the rise in
HIV-attributable TB. Meanwhile, in Burkina Faso the national TB program reaches less than 20 percent
of cases. Fortunately, TB can be cured and often prevented in people living with HIV/AIDS, thereby
extending and improving the quality of their life. A strategy that expands the availability of effective TB
control in general and more specifically promotes synergies with the HIV testing and counseling networks
would offer life-extending opportunities for people living with HIV/AIDS by improving prevention,
treatment and cure of TB.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1     Government Strategy The government realizes the gravity of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and has
been proactive in implementing a series of national plans since the emergence of the first AIDS cases in
1986. Figure 5 describes the various stages in the development of the national response, which can be
characterized by growing political comrnitment and an intensification of the scope and range of
interventions. These stages are also characterized by a substantial growth in the level of financial resources
being channeled for the HIV/AIDS program, as can be seen from Figure 8. The government's own
contribution rose from only US$10,000 during the first phase to close to US$2.5 million during the most
recent plan. IDA has played a pivotal role in supporting the government to intensify the fight against AIDS
during the last four years through the Population and AIDS Control Project, which has represented over 50
percent of total funding during this period.
Figure 5: Government Response to HIV/AIDS
Strategies/interventions                   1987-89      1990-92 & 1993-95  1996-1999
HIIWAIDS Plan   HIYIAIDS Plans    HIV/AIDS Plan
Mounting IEC campaigns                                   V                V               V
*      Developing institutional capacity                        V                V
*      Carrying out surveys                                     V
*      Canrying out social marketing program 
*      Strengthening epidemiological surveillance e                                              I
*      Providing screening & treatrnent of STis
*      Carrying out training of health and conununity agents
*      SStrngthening blood screening capabilities                                                V
*      Providing reatrment and care for infected & affected persons
-7-



2.2    A recent assessment of the level of effort of the national HIV/AIDS program in Burkina found
similar pattems to that in other countries (Futures Group International/The POLICY Project, forthcoming
publication). Respondents judged the national program to be doing relatively well in terms of regulatory
and legal issues, organizational structure, policy formulation, political support, and prevention programs.
By contrast the availability of resources and of care programs were generally felt to be poor.
2.3    The HIV/AIDSISTI strategic plan (Cadre strategique de lutte contre le VIHISIDA et les IST
2001-05) proposes the following overall strategies: (i) strengthen preventive activities to reduce the
transmission of STI and HIV; (ii) strengthen epidemiologic surveillance; (iii) improve the quality of care;
and (iv) strengthen national and intemational responses and promote multisectoral coordination. The
proposed project would contribute to the accomplishment of these objectives.
2.4    Main Issues The government's 2001-05 HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Plan includes a comprehensive
analysis of issues facing the national program and lays out specific proposals for addressing them (Annex
2b). This section summarizes the team's assessment of the main issues, with a particular focus on aspects
to be tackled in the proposed operation.
2.5    Effective Targeting One of the key challenges would be to introduce an effective targeting
strategy which addresses the needs of the most vulnerable groups, many of whom do not have a strong
constituency and are not normally the focus of government attention. The government would need to
identify creative ways to redress the social exclusion and stigma experienced by many of these individuals
and to create an enabling environment for NGOs and civil society to reach these groups. As shown in
Figure 6 an effective targeting strategy would need to take into account both the degree of risky behavior
of specific groups and some measure ofaccess. The priority target groups for scarce public resources are
the ones in the upper right-hand quadrant---those at highest risk of infection and which are easiest to reach.
These are the core transmitters of the HIV infection. They include commercial sex workers (sur tabourets,
street vendors) and their clients, men in uniform (e.g. military, police), and highly mobile workers (e.g. gold
miners, sugar workers, truck drivers). These individuals have multiple sex partners, practice unprotected
sex, and often have high STI incidence rates.
Figure 6
Classification of Groups by Riskiness of Behavior
ad        lity
saw_minbmb
swutmam       IOU in~ w.*m I bul
aiIgWnIM           IDli h _t pIUUI
Outcb_ Mi                Pdms
-_o menmum mm               @b
Sbvtm dk*m & uit d       D
_ Tnwk ,Iu bar bns
(Mr4t~    Chids In cln_
Confronting AIDS
-8-



2.6    One effective way of reaching these individuals without stigmatizing them is to target high
transmission areas, which are defined as places with increased social mixing and high levels of commercial
activity. In many African countries, these generally include hotels for truck drivers at the intersection of
major routes, bars near trading centers, and local markets. These high transmission areas account for 80
percent of estimated new sexual contacts. Hence, reaching the core transmitters makes sense both from an
epidemiologic and public economics perspective, to the extent that preventing infections amongst those
most likely to catch and spread the virus would avert the largest number of new infections (Confronting
AIDS, 1999). The need to prioritize scarce resources will become increasingly important as Burkina
proceeds to scale up its national program under.
2.7    Given the generalized nature of the epidemic in Burkina Faso, the government cannot focus only on
the core transmitters, particularly as increasing numbers of sexually active individuals are also at risk.
Therefore, the national plan correctly identifies the need to cover other sexually active groups (e.g. women,
youth, civil servants, private sector employees) and newborns. These figure in the bottom right-hand
quadrant (Figure 6). It should be noted that this diagram depicts relative risk among different populations.
Groups in the upper right hand quadrant generally have a higher rate of new partner formation than others;
nevertheless, some individuals (e.g. teachers) in the lower right hand quadrant may also display risky
behavior.
2.8    Women in general, and poor, young females are a group which requires special attention,
particularly to the extent that they are economically vulnerable and poorly empowered to control their
sexuality (see Box 1). This situation is exacerbated by the early initiation of sexual intercourse and by the
practice of female circumcision that facilitates HIV transmission, particularly from older men to younger
girls. HIV-infected pregnant women attending antenatal clinics have a 30 percent chance of passing on
their infection to their newbom, and hence require special counseling and improved access to drugs to
prevent transmission of the virus. Youth in general have also been targeted for preventive work, which is
encouraging since young people have demonstrated the greatest capacity to adopt safer sex practices. The
cost of providing information and services to all these groups may be very high, and hence the immediate
focus of public spending needs to be on the poor, particularly to the extent that govemment and private
sector employees may be able to assume some financial responsibility.
Box I
AIDS Epidemic and Gender Issues
There are three intereonnected gender issues at the core of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa:
RisAfactors and vulnerability are substantially different for men and women, which reflects
physiological differences, inequalities in access to economic assets, and lack of control of
sexuality.
> The impact of the epidemic is falling disproportionately on women, which implies that special
care must be given to whom preventive activities are directed and how they are carried out.
Curbing the epidemic is a long-term process that hinges on both behavioral change and gender
dynamics. Sustained and responsible sexual behavior change will be possible through an
expansion of economic opportunities for women, promotion of women's rights and
improvements in women's role in their communities and society.
- 9 -



2.9    Effective Multi-sectoral National Response Another key challenge for the next few years would
be to expand and improve on-going interventions while broadening the range and scale of activities to be
supported under the national program. This implies that there is still an important unfinished agenda
focusing on prevention and new emerging priorities in care and treatment. Mounting an effective national
response in Burkina has at least four key dimensions.
*   First, there is a need to expand and improve the effectiveness of key preventive interventions. In spite
of reported high knowledge levels of AIDS, behavioral change remains modest. According to the
1998/99 Demographic and Health Survey only 53 percent of women reported having changed their
sexual behavior in spite of having solid knowledge of the risks associated with AIDS. This implies that
IEC messages need to be better targeted, behavioral change communications (BCC) need to be
expanded, and a greater emphasis needs to be placed on gender dynamics given their influence in the
spread of AIDS. The successful AIDS program in Uganda appears to suggest that behavioral change
is more likely to occur when individuals receive messages from peers and family members rather than
through mass media campaigns, which has been the main strategy used in Burkina (Figure 7).
Behavioral change is also more likely to occur when preventive messages and condom promotion are
accompanied by genuine changes in gender dynamics that empower women to better control their
sexuality. This underscores the importance of economic empowerment of young women in order to
provide them with an altemative way of eaming their livelihood and to prevent them from falling prey
to older men (sugar daddy phenomenon).
Figure 7
Channels for Acquiring AIDS Information
0.6 g:. ..X.2,:¢,, 
0.4                        (B~~~~~~~~~~ Personal
0.3                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lnstitut~on
0.2                                  0Ms
* Second, there is a need to provide a continuum of care to enhance the effectiveness ofpreventive
interventions, which have been the main focus to date. Particular attention needs to be given to
strengthening the ability of the public health system to provide a range of quality, cost effective
interventions. Voluntary testing and counseling is provided in only two urban locations and treatment
of STIs and opportunistic infections are believed to cover only a small proportion of the population
at-risk. Access is constrained by the cost of HIV testing (which varies between US$5.0 and US$20.0
equivalent) which is beyond the reach of many Burkinabe.
- 10 -



* Third, the government recognizes that there is a need to mobilize all key stakeholders in the fight
against AIDS, including key public sector institutions; private sector firms; NGOs; traditional
healers and traditional counselors. The health sector has been the primary force in the fight against
the epidemic. It is essential for other sectors to analyze the imnplications of the epidemic for their
respective sector and to carry out their own activities.
*  Fourth, there is a need to scale up interventions to the national level. While some promising
interventions have yielded positive results in terms of raising knowledge levels, demystifying AIDS,
encouraging behavioral change, and motivating individuals to seek care for STIs, the challenge will be
to replicate these on a larger scale in order to curb the epidemic.
Figure 8
Burkina Faso: Total Funding of National
HIV IAIDS Activitie s, USS M illio n
25.00 f           
20.00 Y--. 
10.00
1987- 1990- 1993- 1996-
1989  1992  1995  1999
Period
2.10   Financing Gap In order for Burkina to scale up the HIV/AIDS program, this would require
substantial additional resources over and above what has been spent in recent years. Over the past thirteen
years close to US$35 million has been spent on HIV/AIDS activities, of which roughly 92 percent was
funded by external donors. Projected annual needs over the next five years (2001-05 HIV/AIDS/STI
Strategic Plan) are estimated at US$23.0 million, which represents over an 8-fold annual increase in
spending. To date, the government has mobilized over US$12 million for 2001 and hopes to secure
additional resources during a forthcoming donors' meeting. Depending on future commitments and
absorptive capacities, the proposed project would represent between a quarter and a third of projected
expenditures on HIV/AIDS/STI activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    The project is expected to support the main sector issues outlined above. In designing this
operation, the Bank team, along with government counterparts and development partners, considered the
following strategic choices:
* Whether to work through decentralized structures or a centralized fund type mechanism? The team
weighed the pros and cons of building on the existing decentralization process and opted for an
approach which allows the government to provide immediate support for interventions that would have
the greatest impact on the epidernic through contracting of NGOs while building up capacities in the
medium-term through decentralized structures. At the same time, there was a consensus that
decentralized, participatory approaches were essential for empowering local communities which have
the most to gain.
- 11 -



*  How to strike the right balance between needs and absorptive capacity? The Bank estimates that to
scale up a basic package of HIV/AIDS interventions Burkina would require between US$38 and
US$66 million annually (or US$3 and $5 per capita) under a low and medium case scenario,
respectively (Costs of Scaling HIVProgram Activities to a National Level in Sub-Saharan Africa).
The team and Burkina's development partners have concems over the country's ability to absorb these
additional resources. Moreover, given the availability of roughly US$2 million annually of HIPC
funds and the strong interest of bilateral donors, the Bank team felt that a more modest loan would not
crowd out these other sources of funding.
* Which activities and expenditures would be eligible? Given the demand driven nature of this
operation the team felt that it was essential to specify the types of activities to be carried out and the
type of expenditures eligible for funding. It was decided that the public sector would focus on activities
not carried out by others while building partnerships with the private sector and civil society on
activities on which these stakeholders have a comparative advantage. Given the inherent market
failures related to many of these HIV/AIDS interventions, there is a strong rationale for government
funding (Musgrove, 1999). Annex 2 breaks down the core set of eligible activities under the MAP, by
executing agency (line ministries/provinces; communities; and NGOs, private sector, associations) in
line with comparative advantage.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Line Ministry Work Programs
1.1   This component would provide support to line ministries to prepare and execute annual HIV/AIDS
work programs. These annual work programs would be approved by the SP-CNLS and would be
incorporated into memoranda of understanding (Protocole d'accord) to be signed by the SP-CNLS and the
respective line ministry. Funds would be disbursed biannually from the IDA Project Management Unit.
These work programs would include funding for:
>     Preventive interventions, such as awareness and advocacy to increase support and mobilize
resources; targeted IEC and BCC messages and condom promotion to encourage behavioral change among
ministerial staff and their constituencies.
>     Policy development to address the impact of the epidemic in the respective sector and to elaborate
and carry out strategic plans.
>     Psycho-social counseling activities, to assist line ministry staff and their families affected by the
epidemic. The goal would be for each line ministry to assess the needs of their constituency while the
social affairs ministry would be responsible for providing these services.
.>    Capacity building (e.g. training of focal points) to enable line ministries to initiate and sustain
these activities.
1.2    In the case of the Ministry of Health, the central level would have a pivotal role to play for those
activities that involve important economies of scale, such as the procurement of condoms, drugs, laboratory
equipment and supplies. Given the rapidly evolving situation with antiretroviral (ARV) therapy, IDA
- 12 -



would also support the development of guidelines and the strengthening of health services to make better
use of these drugs and will remain open, on a case-by-case basis, to support ARV drugs.
1.3    The MOH would prepare its annual work program, stipulating all sources of funding (e.g. own
funds, HIPC, other donors). The proposed activities to be funded would be an integral part of the ministry'
s annual expenditure program and of its medium-term health plan. The IDA operation would be relied on
to fill any remaining financing gap. The HIV/AIDS/STI Work Program of the Ministry of Health would
include, in addition to the activities noted above, the following types of activities: research and surveillance,
including improved HfV sentinel surveillance, HIV voluntary testing and counseling services, TB care,
treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections; and prevention of mother-to-child transmission.
1.4    The project would also fund annual work programs of the Permanent Secretariat of the national
HIV/AIDS/STI coordinating body (SP/CNLS), to strengthen oversight and policy formulation capabilities
by: (i) planning, programming and coordinating national activities; (ii) organizing technical assistance and
training; (iii) facilitating decentralization of program activities; and (iv) monitoring progress and facilitating
exchange of best practices, including the establishment of a learning network among stakeholders
participating in the project and the design and dissemination of a Best Practices Book, documenting
Burkina's experiences in the fight against AIDS. National and regional workshops and seminars would be
organized to share experiences. The project would provide retroactivefinancing for the organization of a
regional AIDS seminar, to provide a forum for a cross fertilization of experiences with community driven
AIDS initiatives in Africa. The seminar, to be held in December 2001, is critical for sharing experiences,
validating the approach to be used under the MAP, and solidifying the govermnent's commitment to the
fight against AIDS. IDA financirng is needed to complement resources to be provided by other development
partners. Retroactive financing in an aggregate amnount not exceeding US$0.3 million may be made in
respect to category 5 (Work Programs) on account of payments for expenditures before the date of the
Development Credit Agreement but after July 1, 2001 (according to OP 12. 10). The Work Program would
be agreed upon with IDA.
B. Provincial Activities and Community Sub-Projects
1.5   The second component would consist of the following activities:
>     Provincial Activities: This sub-component would provide assistance to provincial authorities to:
(i) plan and coordinate HIV/AIDS/STI activities, (ii) screen, approve and monitor community sub-projects,
and (iii) build up capacities of communities and associations to carry out sub-projects. These activities
would be carried out through: the provision of, inter alia, technical assistance and capacity building
activities, training, and operating costs. The provincial activities would draw on lessons learned from the
Gaoua pilot scheme (Box 2) and from other successful experiences in Burkina.
>P.    Community HIV/AIDS Sub-Projects: This sub-component would support the financing of
conimunity sub-projects in an effort to empower local communities to better cope with the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. Sub-projects would include: (a) awareness, advocacy, peer education and condom promotion;
(b) home-based care and support for those infected and affected by the disease; (c) care of orphans; and (d)
income-generating activities to assist affected families and to empower women economically. The
component would also fund training and technical support to build up capacities of local communities and
associations to design and carry out these sub-projects.
- 13-



C. Targeted Interventions
1.6   The third component aims to support targeted interventions which are critical in curbing the
pandemic. Organizations with specialized expertise, proven track records and/or strong capacities to work
with these vulnerable groups would be encouraged to carry out targeted interventions. Proposals would be
selected by a national level review panel on a competitive basis according to a list of eligibility criteria
specified in the Implementation Manual. Contracts would be signed between the SP-CNLS and the
respective non-government or community based organization. Activities to be funded would include: (a)
preventive interventions such as peer education coupled with condom distribution; (b) STI treatment and
care; and (c) HIV testing and counseling.
D. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.7   This component would provide support for:
(a)    Monitoring and evaluation, to set up and institutionalize a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system for the national program; this would include, inter alia, support for the next
Demographic and Health Survey (2004/05); a biennial Behavioral Surveillance Survey to monitor
behavioral change among targeted groups; updating of a national baseline of HIV and STI incidence rates;
and replication of the mapping of high transmission areas. In addition, a management information system
would be put in place at the central level during project start up, to monitor both the technical and financial
aspects of project implementation. These activities are described in detail in Annex 11. Monitoring and
evaluation would also include support for technical and financial audits and for monitoring the financial
and physical execution.
(b)    Project Management The Project Management Unit would be responsible for the administrative
and financial management aspects of the project and for coordinating the technical aspects of the operation
closely with the SP-CNLS.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector       Costs    %         financing   Bank-
(U SM)   Total    (US$M)  financing
1. Line Ministry Work Programns   HIV/AIDS           10.60      45.1      9.90      45.0
2. Provincial Activities and Community  HIV/AIDS      5.10      21.7      4.80      21.8
Sub-Projects
3. Targeted Interventions         HIV/AIDS            4.20      17.9      4.20      19.1
4. Coordination, Monitoring and   HIV/AIDS            3.60      15.3      3.10      14.1
Evaluation
Total Project Costs                 23.50     100.0     22.00     100.0
Front-end fee                   0.00       0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                  23.50      100.0     22.00     100.0
- 14 -



Box2: GAoUA PILOTSCHEME
The Gaoua district of Burkina Faso is located in an area of high migration on the borders
with Cote d'lvoire and Ghana. Large numbers of young men earn their livelihood in the coffee and
cocoa plantations of neighboring Cote d'lvoire, where they spend extended periods of time away
from home. Many males return infected, placing a heavy burden on their families and running the
risk of infecting their partners. Young girls in search of a better life also expose themselves to
situations that place them at greater risk of getting AIDS. Recognizing the gravity of the situation,
the district was one of the first to initiate a bottom up, participatory process of addressing the AIDS
epidemic.
While the operational activities supported under this scheme are broadly similar to other
local responses to HIVIAIDS around the world (e.g. health promotion, IEC activities, condom social
marketing), it is the process by which the initiative was conceived, planned, and implemented that
provides the most useful lessons. The approach used in Gaoua involves mobilizing all segments of
society, empowering local communities, and demedicalizing the AIDS issues. At the local level, the
initiative has engaged the participation of all sectors, institutions and groups, including women's
groups such as development associations, women educators (Association des meres educatrices),
soldiers' wives, Foyer Biboo Yir (Promotion de lajeunefille etprevention du SIDA). A multi-sectoral
technical committee (Le Cumite Techluiqac Prc,vksciaI de Lutte Contre le SIDA) has been set up to
oversee, coordinate and guide the implementation of the HIV/AIDS provincial plan. This committee,
which is presided by the High Commissioner, is comprised of representatives of all technical services
(e. g. health authorities, social services), NGOs/associations, and civil society, including PLWHA.
This broad-based participation is expected to foster a greater sense of ownership and to yield better
results.
Building on this participatory, bottom up process initiated by UNAIDS in the late 90s, the
Gaoua district now benefits from support from the IDA-funded Population and AIDS Control
Project. The goal of the current phase is to encourage each village to prepare its own HIV/AIDS
sub-project. To date, good progress has been made in establishing AIDS committees in over 500
villages, elaborating training manuals, initiating the training of trainers, and beginning to apply a
methodology for mapping of high transmission areas. An external firm is being recruited to
document the pilot experience and to draw lessons in a systematic fashion for the scale up of the
national program.
A number of key lessons are already emerging from the experience during the past few years.
These lessons draw on both positive and negative aspects of the experience to date. The first one
relates to the importance of using action-oriented research techniques, which contribute greatly to the
communitv's understanding of the AIDS situation. A second key lesson has been the importance of a
locally driven process, which enhances ownership. The third one relates to the need to manage
expectations of a large and diverse group of stakeholders. In this regard, experience has shown that
it is essential to identify an effective mechanism for channeling funds, so that resources can be
disbursed in a timely fashion. The earlier phase of the Gaoua experiment was marred by difficulties
in getting funds to beneficiaries, which led to high frustrations and limited results. A fourth issue
concerns the importance of adopting transparent procedures for selecting individuals for local
committees, so that all interest groups are well represented and understand how the selection process
has occurred. In this regard, it will be essential to ensure that women are well represented on village
communities so that their views and preferences can be adequately taken into account. Finally, it
witl be essential to simplify procedures for preparation of sub-projects.
'There is not a single organization, not a single vital force in this town, that has notjoined in, the
Imams, the Christians included; there is not a single administrative department that is not
participating".
- 15 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1    N/A
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1    The proposed project would contribute to slowing the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to
alleviating the burden on individuals and households. Ultimately, it would have a positive demographic and
socio-economic impact on society. Many of these benefits are difficult to quantify with precision,
particularly given the relatively short time horizon of this project. Preliminary projections of the
demographic impact of AIDS, prepared by the POLICY PROJECT, suggest that some 2 million lives
would be saved, and roughly 1 million AIDS cases would be averted by 2015. These projections are
ballpark estimates which remain to be endorsed by the government. Important externalities would accrue
to society in terms of direct (e.g. lower treatment costs) and indirect cost savings (e.g. lower productivity,
savings and investnent losses; reductions in the number of orphans).
3.2    Particular benefits would accrue to the most vulnerable groups who would benefit from targeted
interventions. Those who have the most to gain will be directly involved in the design and execution of
community sub-projects. Moreover, intensifying the response against the epidemic at this stage in Burkina
would cost substantially less than what would be required at a later stage when the disease runs the risk of
becoming more widespread, as it has in Southern Africa where prevalence rates average over 15 percent in
most countries (see Figure 9). When the adult HIV prevalence rate is less than 5 percent the annual cost of
prevention, care and treatment has been estimated at about 1.3 percent of GDP. Once the H-IV prevalence
rate reaches 30 percent, the annual cost can be as high as 10 percent of GDP (Costs of Scaling HIV
Program Activities to a National Level in Sub-Saharan Africa: Methods and Estimates, ACTafrica, The
World Bank, November 2000).
Figure 9
Per Capita Costs of Scaling-up Prevention and Care
and HIV Prevalence Rates in sub-Saharan Africa
157
10~
a
0~
0     10    20     30      40
Adult HIV Prevalence Rate (%)
- 16 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1    See section E
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1    N/A
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
2.1    As can be seen from the table below, a large number of development agencies are active in the fight
against HIV/AIDS and STIs in Burkina. Under the leadership of the UNDP, the thematic group has been
active in supporting the government to elaborate the strategic plan, provide technical backstopping, and
mobilize financing. UNDP is playing a pivotal role in the organization of a donors' round table. The
UNAIDS technical advisor has been instrumental in supporting the strategic planning process and in
involving all national players in the fight against the epidemic. Main areas of bilateral and multilateral
involvement include: voluntary testing and counseling and STI treatment and screening (France, Belgium),
social marketing program (Germany), decentralized health district support (Dutch, French, Belgium),
reproductive health and family planning (US, UNFPA, Germany), mother-to-child transmission and
adolescent health (UNICEF), targeted interventions (Canada), and technical assistance (WHO, EU,
UNAIDS,UNDP). In addition, there are a large nurnber of national and international NGOs active in
Burkina.
T E    ] Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _  .(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health (IDA)                     Health and Nutrition Project      S            S
(on-going)
Population/AIDS (IDA)            Population and AIDS Project       S            S
(on-going)
Rural Development/Agric (IDA)    Environmental Management          S            S
Project, PNGTI (completed)
Rural Development/Agric (IDA)    Food Security Project, PSAN       S            S
(completed)
Rural Development/Agric (IDA)    Second Agricultural Services      S            S
Development
Project--PNDSAII (ongoing);
Rural DevelopmentVAgric (IDA)    Private Irrigation Project,       S            S
DIPAC (ongoing)
Education (IDA)                  Post-primary Education Project    S            S
(ongoing)
Transport (IDA)                  Transport Sector Adjustment      HS            S
Credit (completed)
- 17-



Other development agencies
Netherlands                        Assistance to Fight Against
AIDS
Canada                             Assistance to Fight Against
AIDS in West Africa
European Union                     Technical Assistance Project
for Development of an
STIs/HIV/AIDS Strategy
France                             Assistance to Fight against
HIV/AIDS; Bamako Initiative
and AIDS: Houet, Comoe and
Kenedougou
UNFPA                              Joint Project in Fight Against
HIV/AIDS
USAID                              Family Health and AIDS
Prevention
Germany                            Family Planning and AIDS
Prevention/Social Marketing
Program
WHO                                Technical Assistance
UNAIDS                             Technical Assistance
UNDP                               Assistance in Fight Against
AIDS
IJNICEF                            Prevention of Mother to Child
Tranmission; Adolescent
Health; School Health
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
3.1    The government has already begun integrating many of the lessons from the global response to
AIDS (Box 3) and from the implementation of Bank-funded operations (Box 4) into the design of its
national HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Plan. It has mobilized strong commitment at the highest levels,
established partnerships with key stakeholders (e.g. NGOs, community associations, groups living with
HIV/AIDS), and empowered decentralized authorities to take a lead in the fight against this pandemic.
- 18-



Box 3: Global Response to AIDS- Key Ingredients to Success
J  Strong government commitment at the highest level, which has been critical in demystifying AIDS, mobilizing
financing, and creating an enabling environment.
/  Sroad basedpartnerships, involving government, private sector, and civil society. including those affected by
the epidemic. Non-g;overnmental organizations and community associations have proven to be essential players
in successful programs worldwide. These organizations use innovative approaches, have a comparative
advantage in tackling the socio-cultural and psychological aspects of the disease, and are best placed to reach
high-risk groups.
' Decentrali-ed and participatory approaches that mobilize a broad spectrum of society, including communities,
local leaders, and people living with HIV/AIDS in the fight against the epidemic. SuccessfLl programs have
paid particular attention to wsomen's vulnerabilities and special needs.
Targeting strategy, which tailors messages to different groups and reaches those at greatest risk without
stignatizing particular groups has proven effective in curbing the epidemic.
Multi-sectoral responses that address both the causes and consequences of the HIV/AIDS pandemic by
involving all public sector institutions (e.g. finance, agriculture, education, police).
V Comprehensive programs that include the full range of interventions (e.g. behavior change, STD control,
condom distribution. community based care and support, and advocacy; providing a continuum of care) would
be critical to enhancing the effectiveness of preventive interventions.
/  Capacity building at all levels has proven critical, particularly to the extent that national programs are
increasingly working through organizations with limited capabilities.
V Sustainabilitv and scale up strategies need to be developed so that the program does not remain limited to high
cost boutique approaches.
Source: Intensifting Action Against f fVIA IDS in Africa
3.2    In spite of these modest steps forward, government authorities recognize that these efforts are
insufficient to slow the spread of the disease. There is now a need to mount an effective multi-sectoral
response, to adopt appropriate targeting strategies, and to scale up the program to a national level, moving
away from high cost boutique approaches. Finally, there is a general recognition that it would be essential
to adopt more flexible mechanisms for channeling funds to stakeholders. The centralized management of
funds under the Population and AIDS Project has proven to be a stumbling block to efficient
implementation. The recent amendment of the credit agreement will allow for decentralized management of
funds and for disbursements based on annual work programs.
3.3    Monitoring and evaluation has proven an essential ingredient in successful programs worldwide,
and hence is being given special attention. To strengthen the design of this operation a number of key
studies are being initiated as part of project preparation (see Annex 11, Box 7).
-19-



Box 4: Key Lessons from Bank-funded Health and AIDS Operations in Burkina
  Adoptingflexible and decentralized procedures for channeling funds improves accountability, raises
staff motivation, accelerates pace of implementation, and improves response to local needs.
*  Introducing appropriate safeguards for the decentralized management of fund-s, such as strong
technical support, intensive training, and solid monitoring and evaluation systems.
  Using criteria to determine readiness of regional authorities to assume responsibility for
decentralized planning and management of resources.
*  Adopting a realistic and well quantifted set of indicators for monitoring and evaluation.
*  Promoting participation ofnon-governmental organizations and community associations has been
essential in carrying out HIlV/AIDS activities. Activities supported by these organizations have been
found to have a generally positive impact in terms of raising knowledge levels, demystifying AIDS.
encouraging behavioral change, and motivating individuals to seek care for STDs.
  Integrating project management unit into the government's institutional structure to ensure broad
based ownership
*  Addressing poliy and institutional issues upfrotit, rather than as conditions of effectiveness. in
order to avoid lengthy delays between board approval and loan effectiveness.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
4.1    The government is committed to scaling up the HIV/AIDS/STI program and is putting in place an
appropriate institutional structure to strengthen national coordination and program management. The
govermment's commitment is reflected in increased levels of its own financial contributions to the national
program over the past decade.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5.1    The value added of Bank support is three-fold. First, the Bank has a comparative advantage in
mobilizing substantialfinancial resources for scaling up the national program. While many donors are
supporting the national program, the Bank has represented the single largest source of funding over the past
five years. Moreover, Bank funding would play a catalytic role in attracting additional funding from other
development partners. Second, the Bank is in a unique position to transfer cutting edge knowledge and
experiences from AIDS research, policy analysis and program design. Burkina's participation in the MAP
would provide opportunities to network with other countries supported under the umbrella operation.
Finally, the Bank is well placed to mainstream HIV-AIDS activities in other priority sectors, such as rural
development, education, youth affairs, mining, and defense. The Bank team together with government
counterparts has already started retrofitting on-going operations in order to allow for financing of priority
activities, as described in Box 5.
- 20 -



Box 5: Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS Interventions
Government authorities recognize the need to deal with the crippling effects of the epidemic on all
sectors of the economy. Authorities acknowlcdge that the epidemic affects the demand, supply and quality of
education, increases vulnerability of affected households, and places enormous strains on the health care systern.
All public and private sector organizations arc experiencing rapid staff turnover, reductions in productivity, and
a brain drain as AIDS begins to take its toll. With the assistance of UNAIDS the mrajority of line ministries and
a number of private sector firms are analyzing the socioeconomic impact of the epidemic and designing remedial
strategies. Many of these activities are currently being mainstreamed in Bank-funded operations. Highlights of
these sector plans arc summarized below:
V  The Ministries ofAgriculture. of Environment and of Water and Anim1al Resources are in the process of: (i)
developing a strategic HIV/AIDS plan, (ii) training and informing agricultural agents about the disease, and
(iii) collaborating with the Ministry of Education to incorporate AIDS themes into the agricultural school
curricula.
1 The Ministry of Education is undertaking staff training for focal points. infornation campaigns to raise
awareness and encourage behavioral change, and curriculum revisions to integrate these themes into the
education system, in order to reach youth at an early age. The target population for these activities includes
teachers. parents, and students. These activities would be initiated under the Population and AIDS Control
Project and would be continued under a new education project that is currently under preparation. The
Ministry of Youth and Sports is targeting out-of-school youths through a Stop AIDS caravan information
campaign.
|    The Ministry of Energy and Mines is using an IDA-funded operation to support the development of an
information campaign targcted to miners and the women supporting the mining areas, which are some of the
highest-risk groups because of high levels of mobility.
/  The Ministrv ofDefense has nearly completed a three-year strategic plan and is relying on the IDA-funded
Population and AIDS Control project to target the military, which comprises of young, highly mobile,
sexually active men, who represent one of the key high-risk groups for HIV transmission. The goal is to
train focal points, who would in turn train other officers in all military regions, in an effort to disseminate
messages and cncourage behavioral change. The IEC activities would be coupled with the distribution
and/or sale of condoms, and with improved availability of testing and counseling.
V  The Ministry of Tourism and Transport is targeting truckers, hotelkeepers, taxi drivers and managers in a
sensitization campaign aimed at changing behavior, as well as providing training for supporting those who
are already sick.
/ The Ministries ofSocia/Action and Promotion of Women are planning and carrying out numerous activities.
such as staff training, IEC campaigns, assistance for orphans and vulnerable women. These ministries
provide support to women's associations and other groups working with marginalized populations.
- 21 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR -= % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
1.1    The "Economic Analysis of EIV/AIDS" contained in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region (Report No. 20727 AFR) provides the
overall economic justification for the Burkina HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
2.1    The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be relatively small with counterpart funds (US$0.3
million per year) not representing a heavy burden on the government budget.
2.2    A fuller assessment of the recurrent cost implications is being built into the project design. To this
end, participating organizations will systematically collect cost data and will assess the recurrent cost
implications of the interventions being carried out.
3. Technical:
3.1    N/A
4. Institutional:
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the proposed operation are spelled out in a
detailed implementation manual, which is currently being finalized.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The key institutions to be involved in implementation and their respective roles and responsibilities
are described in Annex 15 and briefly summarized below. During the appraisal mission, preliminary
asssessment of the core capacities of the SP-CNLS and of a sample of line ministries was carried out. To
this end, the team: (a) clarified roles and responsibilities; (b) determined the capacity of the designated units
to carry out their respective responsibilities; and (c) identified needs in terms of additional personnel,
technical assistance.
>0    The SP-CNLS would be responsible for: (i) elaborating HIV/AIDSISTI strategies; (ii) assisting
line ministries to elaborate and monitor their work programs and approve them; (iii) providing technical
support to provinces to facilitate decentralization of national program; (iv) facilitating access of NGOs and
associations to IDA funds by organizing training and capacity building activities; and (v) ensuring
coordination of national program, including monitoring and evaluation activities.
Line ministries would be responsible for the design, implementation and monitoring of their annual
- 22 -



work programs.
>     Provincial authorities will be responsible for approving community sub-projects, supervising
activities and providing technical support to communities. Within each participating province, a Comite
Technique Provincial de Lutte Contre le VIHISIDA would be established. The implementation manual
spells out the composition and responsibilities of this committee. In provinces where the IDA-funded
Community Based Rural Development Project (PNGT) is active, the MAP project would use the same
structures as the rural development project.
>     Community representatives would be involved in the design and implementation of sub-projects
which are approved at the provincial level. The Comite Technique Villageois de Lutte Contre le
VIHISIDA would be responsible for oversight of community sub-projects.
>     NGOs and community based associations with capacity to operate at the national or provincial
levels would submit proposals for funding targeted interventions to the Project Management Unit. A
national level review panel would select proposals based on a competititve process according to a list of
eligibility criteria specified in the Implementation Manual. The review panel would work in close
collaboration with the SP-CNLS and the PMU.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by a Project Management Unit based in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. This unit has a good track record in the financial management of the on-going IDA-funded
Population and AIDS Control Project. It would be primarily responsible for the financial management
aspects and would coordinate technical aspects with the SP-CNLS.
4.3 Procurement issues:
In general, Burkina Faso's laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA guidelines and allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provision in national laws and regulations. A Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in November 1999 and the report published in
November 2000. The findings and recommendations of the CPAR are valid for this project, namely: a)
insufficient monitoring of contracts; b) delays in payment of counterpart funds; c) weaknesses in planning
procurement of goods, works and services; d) lack of training in procurement for project staff. The issues
raised in the CPAR were also confirmed by a Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Project
Coordination Unit of the Population and AIDS Project (Cr. 261 9-BUR) and of key line ministries (health,
basic education, and agriculture) conducted during appraisal. Provisions for strengthening procurement
capaity are described in the Procurement Implementation Arrangements section of Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The design of the financial management system for the Burkina operation draws heavily on basic
principles of sound financial management under the MAP. The project aims to adopt elements of best
practice from the basic financial management systems of other IDA-funded projects in Burkina (e.g. Health
and Nutrition Project, PDSN; Community-Based Rural Development Project, PNGT2). A fuller
discussion of the Financial Management Arrangements can be found in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 23 -



The project does not raise any major environmental or social issues and does not require an
environmental assessment. The project does raise some concerns with respect to waste disposal of
hazardous products. These concerns will be addressed by incorporating criteria into the selection of
sub-projects for communities, and of work program agreements of line ministries. Criteria to be included
in the implementation manual would include the following types of indicators: (a) inclusion of norms and
standards for hazardous waste disposal; and (b) IEC and training activities for addressing hazardous waste
disposal.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
AIDS is a disease which has devastating socio-economic consequences on affected households and
conmmunities. Hence, the proposed operation will provide assistance to communities to finance sub-projects
to mitigate the socio-economic impact.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project involves broad based participation of stakeholders in the design, execution and
monitoring of AIDS related activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and community based associations will be involved in the implementation of targeted
interventions.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project envisions broad based involvement of key stakeholders at the national, provincial and
comrnunity level, including people living with HIV/AIDS.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
- 24 -



See Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apl to theM roject?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       O Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   (o Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               O Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.1    The sustainability of this operation would be driven by the degree of ownership of key
stakeholders, implementation capacity, and the government's ability to channel funds in a timely fashion.
To the extent feasible, the potential for sustainability is built into the project. First, all stakeholders would
be preparing their own plans and would benefit from capacity building activities. This would enhance
ownership, commitment and institutional capacity to sustain these activities. Second, a special effort is
being made to adopt flexible procedures for channeling funds to stakeholders. Third, some of the
preventive interventions may not need to be financed at similar intensity levels throughout the life of the
project.
1.2    Against these sustainability-enhancing measures, there are concerns about the government's ability
to cope with the escalating costs of dealing with AIDS patients. The demand for these services is likely to
rise, as IEC and BCC activities are intensified and individuals become more motivated to be tested and to
seek care. The involvement of PLWHA and their associations would also raise expectations and demands.
There are also concerns about the ability of affected households to cope with the rising burden of AIDS.
While little data exists on Burkina, experience from similar contexts has shown that households with
sero-positive members are bearing a severe financial burden. For example, in Rwanda 10 percent of total
health expenditures is spent on HIV prevention and treatment for those who are HIV positive, of which
household out-of-pocket expenditures make up 93 percent. UNDP and the Danish government are planning
to finance a household survey to determine the impact of the disease on households in Burkina. This survey
would provide further insights as to who is most severely affected, how these households are coping, and
what the government might do alleviate the burden of this catastrophic illness.
- 25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- Line ministries do not maintain          M         - Organization of workshops to share
commitment and capacity to carry out                 experiences and encourage innovation
effective IEC activities
- Preventive activities do not lead to     S         - Shift in strategy from mass media campaigns
behavioral change                                    to behavioral change comnmunications and peer
education
- Lack of sufficient drugs at health       S         - Improved coordination with essential drugs
facilities                                          program
- Health personnel do not adopt positive   S        - Greater involvement of PLWHIA in program,
attitude towards PLWHA                              which would improve their acceptance
- Communities are not willing or capable   M        - Organization of training programs and
of designing and implementing activities            workshops to assist communities and greater
to mitigate impact of epidemic                      involvement of PLWHA
- Inadequate funds for supervision of      M        - Need to get agreement from country team on
rapidly prepared and complex operations             securing appropriate supervision budget and/or
seek trust fund resources
- Cost and stigma of testing remain high   S        - An enabling environment is created whereby
and individuals do not seek test results            private, non-profit organizations are encouraged
to set up testing and counseling centers and
public sector assures financing
From Components to Outputs
- Limited capacities of implementing                - The Project Management Unit with experience
organizations                                        in the administration of IDA projects would be
used for the MAP operation
- A good Implementation Manual would be
elaborated, with clear procedures and guidelines
- Periodic training in Bank procedures would be
provided
Overall Risk Rating                  =
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 26 -



2.1    The project faces three major risks. The first relates to the potential difficulties in bringing about
behavioral change, which is fundamental to curbing the epidemic. Experience in Burkina has shown that
in spite of reported high knowledge levels of HIV/AIDS, behavioral change is occurring relatively slowly.
This risk would be partly addressed by modifying some of the strategies for disseminating messages
through greater emphasis on peer education and behavioral change communications that have proven more
effective in bringing about behavioral change. Likewise, use of NGOs and associations that have a greater
facility for broaching these issues would also be helpful. Nevertheless, there are no magical answers.
Curbing the epidemic is a long-termn process that hinges on behavioral change and gender dynamics.
2.2    The second risk is associated with the large number of stakeholders and the decentralized nature
of this operation. Experience worldwide has shown that this is a risk worthwhile assuming, particularly in
terms of the potential high payoffs. A number of steps have been taken to minimize some of the potential
problems. First, the size of the sub-projects to be managed by communities has been adjusted to reflect
local capacities. Second, safeguards have been put in place to address concerns over the potential misuse
of funds, including: (a) translating procedures and guidelines in local languages; (b) publishing information
at the local level on funds received in order to ensure transparency; and (c) ensuring broad based
participation of local communities in design and implementation, which would enhance accountability.
2.3    A third risk, which may arise, stems from the limited implementation capabilities of the
organizations that would implement the project. This is of particular concern given the fast-track
preparation of this project. The emphasis placed on using a Project Management Unit with experience in
the management of IDA projects should mitigate this problem. In addition, capacity building has been built
into all project components. The elaboration of a good implementation manual, with clear procedures and
guidelines and standardized forms would also minimize some of the problems that may arise. Finally,
periodic training in Bank procedures and guidelines would also be useful.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
3.1    N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.1    The Borrower has:
* Adopted the Implementation Manual and the Manual ofAdministrative, Financial, and Accounting
Procedures.
* Opened a Project Account and made the Initial Deposit.
*   Established an accounting and financial management system for the project satisfactory to the
Association.
* Appointed independent auditors.
* Established the SP-CNLS according to the provisions in Schedule 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1    N/A
-27 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A consultant is currently assisting the Governnent to finalize the Implementation Manual.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
5 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
tVCAAct S(, 5eQi-jj    t                                                         LZV
Miriam Schneidman                ' Rosemary Belle                    Mique  aponara
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country ManagerlDirector
June 14, 2001
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BURKINA FASO: HIVIAIDS Disaster Response Project
Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
-Reduce poverty           Incidence of poverty       -Poverty Profile          >   Political stability
-Ensure access of the poor to  Human development     - Annual UNDP Report      >   Successful development
basic social services     indicators                                           and implementation of
requisite sector strategies
-Increase employment and
income generating activities
for the poor
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
(A) Scale up, expand and    Sexual Behavior          -DHS
improve preventive        -Decrease from 1998/99 to                             >   Preventive activities
activities in an effort to  2004/05 in percentage of  -BSS,                    lead to behavioral change
lower the risks of        non-married individuals who
transmission              report having 2 or 3 partners:
Females: from 4% to 2%
Males: from 13% to 10%
-Increase from 1998/99 to
2004/05 in the percentage of
men who report having used
condoms during the past 12
months from 13% to 17%
Increase of 20% in condom
utilization rates among priority
groups
(B) Strengthen capacity to   Discrimination & Stigma                           >   Strong public health
provide care, treatment and  -Decrease of 20% in     - BA                      system able to provide a
support to those infected or proportion of PLWHA                               range of quality interventions
affected by the epidemic   reporting discrimination and                        >   Solid public/private
stigmatization                                       partnerships in the provision
of services
>   Availability of local
NGOs and associations with
sufficient capacity
(C) Mitigate the          Orphan Weffare             School records            >    Capacity at community
socio-economic impact on  -Reduction of 20% in                                 level to implement
affected households and    differentials in school drop out                    sub-projects
communities               rates between orphans and
non-orphans
- 29 -



Hierarchy of,Q Ojt vslIdicators                      Monitoring & Evaluation  ) iCritical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports,           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
National Public Multi-sector    -Increase to 100% the line    -Progress reports  >    Line ministries
HIVAIDS Plans              ministries which have                                demonstrate commitment and
prepared work programs.                              capacity to carry out effective
- Increase to 100% the line                          IEC activities
ministries which have carried
out work programs
- Increase to at least 80% the
line ministries which offer
AIDS education in workplace
Provincial and Community  -Increase of 50% in number of -Progress reports       >  Preventive activities lead to
Multi-Sector Plans &      communibies which have                                behavioral change
Sub-Projects               prepared sub-projects in
participating provinces
-Increase of 50% in the     -DHS                      >  Cost of testing and stigma
number of associations and                           associated with it are reduced
PLWHA that are participating                         and individuals seek results
in the project
-Increase of 25% in the
number of communities that
have mapped high
transmission areas in
participabng provinces
Prevention
Knowledge
- Increase from 1998199 to
2004/05 the percentage of
sexually active individuals who
know they can avoid
contracting HIV by using a
condom
Females (15-49): from 24% to
50%
Males (15-59): from 57% to
80%
-Decrease from 1998/99 to
2004/05 the percentage of
rural females who report not
knowing any means of
contracting HIV from 34% to
15%
-Increase from 1998/99 to
2004/05 the percentage of
sexually active individuals who
know that a person who looks
well can be infected by HIV
- 30 -



Females 15-49:
Rural: from 42% to 60%
Urban: from 78% to 90%
Males 15-59:
Rural: from 67% to 75%
Urban: from 88% to 92%
Services
-Increase of 20% in the
number of sexually active
population receiving voluntary
testing and counseling
- Increase to at least 80% in
the number of health workers
trained in counseling
Treatment and Care       -Record review              >   Availability of sufficient
-Increase by 20% the number                          drugs at health facilities
of infected people treated for
opportunistic infections in    -IP6/1P7              >    Health personnel adopt
participating provinces                              positive aftitude towards
PLWHA
-Increase by 25% in STI
cases treated with appropriate
drugs.
HIV/AIDS Monitoring
Indicators for Community
Sub-Projects
- Number of training sessions
attended
- Number of talks given
- Number of theatrical
sessions and other events
organized
- Number of educational
materials produced and/or
disseminated
- Number of condoms
distributed
- Number of food packages
distributed
- Number of drugs and basic
supplies distributed
- Number of house visits
made
- Number of orphans which
are being looked after
- Number of counseling
sessions organized
- Number of referrals made
- Number of income-
generating activities organized
- 31 -



Mitigation                -Progress reports           >    Communities are willing
-Increase of 20% in the                              and capable of designing and
number of PLWHA who have                              implementing activities to
food and shelter in                                   mitigate impact of epideumlic
participating provinces
-Increase of 20% in the
number of PLWHA who
receive home-based care in
participating provinces
- Increase of 25% in the
number of solidarity schemes
established involving widows
and other poor women in
participating provinces
- Increase of 25% in the
number of communities
providing orphan care and
support in participating
provinces
Targeted Interventions    Prevention                 - BSS                      Same as above
-Increase to 75% in correct    - BA
knowledge of the means of
HIV transmission among the
priority groups targeted (e.g.
youth, sex workers, truckers,
migrants)
-Increase to 75% in the
priority groups targeted who
know that condoms provide
protection against AIDS
Treatment, Care and
Support
-Increase in the percentage of
population group targeted
being treated for STIs and
opportunistic infections
Program Coordination,     -Increase in the AIDS
Monitoring and Evaluation   Program Effort Index (API)
-Other indicators to be added
(under development by The
Synergy Project)
- 32 -



Key Performance      I
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Line Ministry Work Programs  US$10.6 Million         Management Information
System
Provincial Activities and  USS5.1 Million            Management Information
Community Sub-Projects                               System
Targeted Interventions    US$4.2 Million             Management Information
System
Coordination, Monitoring and  USS3.6 Million         Management Information
Evaluation                                           System
Note: The selection of indicators for the logical framework has drawn from the international literature on best
practices. See: National AIDS Programmes: A Guide to Monitoring and Evaluation, UNAIDS (June 2000);
Handbook of Indicators for HIV/AIDS/STI Programs, USAID (March 2000); Stover, J. The AIDS Program Effort
Index (API): Results from the Field Test, The POLICY Project, The Futures group International (August 1999);
and Heymann, et. al. Evaluation of AIDS Programs, The Handbook for AIDS Prevention in Africa, edited by Peter
Lamptey and Peter Piot (1990).
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
1.    Overview  A number of general points are worthwhile highlighting. First, the project has been
designed in line with the MAP framework, to the extent that it aims to expand the national response by
improving access to funds for all stakeholders and by broadening the range of interventions to be
supported. While the goal is to scale up the program nationwide, there is agreement that in the immediate
future particular attention needs to be given to vulnerable groups. Hence, while all stakeholders would be
able to benefit from the project, special emphasis would be placed on supporting those interventions that
can have a maximum impact on slowing down the epidemic.
2.    Second, the proposed operation aims to build on Burkina's decentralization process (whenever
feasible) rather than set up new structures and procedures. To this end, particular care has been taken to
use the structures being set up under the Community-Based Rural Development Project (PNGT) for
HIV/AIDS activities in provinces where this operation will be operating.
3.    Third, the project also aims to tap the lessons stemming from the decentralized management of
health districts plans promoted under the IDA-funded Health and Nutrition Project. The most salient
lessons relate to the need for: (a) adopting flexible procedures for channeling funds to regional
stakeholders; (b) introducing performance based contracting, stipulating deliverables and relating inputs to
results; and (c) introducing appropriate safeguards for the decentralized management of funds, such as
strong technical support, intensive training, and solid monitoring and evaluation systems.
4.    Fourth, capacity building is a central element of the project and has thus been integrated into each
project component. The importance of capacity building cannot be overemphasized, particularly to the
extent that the operation would support many actors who have limited experience in carrying out these
types of interventions.
5.    Fifth, a special effort would be made to involve People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and their
associations in the design and implementation of program activities. The involvement of PLWIA would
enhance the quality and relevance of the work programs, and increase the acceptance of these individuals in
society, and ultimately lead to a reduction in discrimination and stigmatization. In the words of one high
commissioner the principal challenge facing the AIDS program is to "improve the respect for AIDS victims
in the community .. ifpeople living with HIV/AIDS could be accepted in society, that would already be a
great victory." The operational manual would provide details of the procedures and guidelines for
involving these special interest groups.
6.    Finallv, particular attention would be given to integrating gender issues in the design and execution
of the work programs and community sub-projects. The following types of measures would be taken: (i)
encourage communities to take into account gender disaggregated risks in order to better target
interventions; (ii) ensure representation of women on decision making bodies (e.g. HIV/AIDS committees);
(iii) focus IEC/BCC on awareness-building around gender dimensions of AIDS; and (iv) collect and
monitor gender disaggregated data
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$10.60 million
7.    A. Line Ministry Work Programs This component would provide support to line ministries to
prepare and execute annual work programs estimated to cost on average about US$100,000. Most line
ministries in Burkina are currently being assisted by UNAIDS to elaborate short and medium-term
- 34 -



HIV/AIDS strategic plans, many of which are being funded under the on-going IDA Population and AIDS
Control Project (Box 5). Virtually all line ministries have now elaborated strategic plans, appointed focal
points, initiated training and are mounting IEC activities. The implementation of these strategic plans
would provide useful elements for the design of future interventions under the MAP operation. These plans
would include funding for:
*   Preventive interventions, such as awareness and advocacy to increase support and mobilize resources;
targeted IEC and BCC messages and condom promotion to encourage behavioral change among
ministerial staff and their constituencies.
*   Policy development to address the impact of the epidemic in the respective sector and to elaborate and
carry out strategic plans.
*   Psycho-social counseling activities, to assist line ministry staff and their families affected by the
epidemic. The goal would be for each line ministry to assess the needs of its constituency while the
social affairs ministry would be responsible for providing these services.
*   Capacity building (e.g. training of focal points) to enable line ministries to initiate and sustain these
activities.
8.    In the case of the Ministry of Health, in addition to the types of activities enumerated above, the
MOH would be eligible for support for treatment and care activities, including HIV voluntary testing and
counseling services, TB care, treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections; and prevention of
mother-to-child transmission. Some of these activities (e.g. voluntary testing and counseling) would be
sub-contracted to NGOs. The MOH would prepare its annual plan, stipulating all sources of funding (e.g.
own funds, HIPC, other donors). The proposed activities to be funded would be an integral part of the
ministry's annual expenditure program and of its medium-term health plan. The IDA operation would be
relied on to fill any remaining financing gap. Furthermore, in order to strengthen the health sector response
to the epidemic, the MOH would ensure that the health district plans include indicators of performance
which aim to improve the quality and coverage of STI screening and treatment, HIV testing, drug therapy
to prevent mother-to-child transmission, clinical management of opportunistic infections.
9.    The government is facing mounting pressures to expand access to antiretroviral (ARV) therapy.
Currently, only a handful of individuals are able to have access to this therapy. The government has
recently negotiated price reductions with a number of phamaceutical companies. Authorities expect that
these reduced prices will expand access to treatment even though the costs remain beyond the reach of most
Burkinabe. The Bank is cognizant of the thorny ethical, equity and affordability issues surrounding access
to ARV therapy in resource constrained environments and is working with UNAIDS and pharmaceutical
companies to explore ways of introducing ARV therapy. Given the rapidly evolving situation, IDA will
support the development of guidelines and the strengthening of health services to make better use of these
drugs and will remain open, on a case-by-case basis, to support ARV drugs.
10.    The project would also fund annual work programs of the Permanent Secretariat of the national
HIV/AIDS/STI coordinating body (SP/CNLS), to strengthen oversight and policy formulation capabilities
by: (i) planning, programming and coordinating national activities; (ii) organizing technical assistance and
training; (iii) facilitating decentralization of program activities; and (iv) monitoring progress and facilitating
exchange of best practices, including the establishment of a learning network among stakeholders
participating in the project and the design and dissemination of a Best Practices Book, documenting
Burkina's experiences in the fight against AIDS. National and regional workshops and seminars would be
- 35 -



organized to share experiences. The project would finance retroactive financing for the organization of a
regional AIDS seminar aimed cross fertilization of experiences with community driven AIDS initiatives in
Africa (according to OP 12.10). The seminar, to be held in December 2001, is critical for sharing
experiences, validating the approach to be used under the MAP, and solidifying the government's
commitment to the fight against AIDS. Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$0.3 million in respect to category 5 (Work Programs) on account of payments made for expenditures
before the date of the Development Credit Agreement but after July 1, 2001. The Work Program would be
agreed upon with IDA.
Project Component 2 - US$5.10 million
11.    The second component would include the following activities:
B. Provincial Activities and Community Sub-Projects
*   Provincial Activities: This sub-component would provide assistance to provincial authorities to: (i)
plan and coordinate HIV/AIDS activities, (ii) screen, approve and monitor cornmunity sub-projects,
and (iii) build up capacities of communities and associations to carry out sub-projects. These activities
would be carried out through: the provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities,
training, and operating costs.
*   Community Sub-Projects: This sub-component would support the financing of community
sub-projects in an effort to empower local commnunities to better cope with the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Sub-projects would include: (a) awareness, advocacy, peer education and condom promotion; (b)
home-based care and support for those infected and affected by the disease; (c) care of orphans; and (d)
income-generating activities to assist affected families and to empower women economically.
Communities have a strong comparative advantage in carrying out the bulk of these types of activities,
particularly (b)-(d). The component would fund training and technical support to build up capacities
of local communities and associations to design and carry out these sub-projects. Each community
would select a couple of individuals to attend a social mobilization/training session in the following
themes: What is HIV/AIDS and how do you prevent it? How to design sub-projects? How to manage,
supervise and monitor sub-projects? How to manage and account for financial resources? On the
basis of this training, community representatives would prepare sub-projects and subsequently validate
them at the local level to ensure broad-based support. Particular care will need to be given to ensuring
that women and other vulnerable groups are well represented in local activities and that gender is used
as a criterion for selection of activities. Community sub-projects would then be submitted to the
provincial AIDS technical committee for a simple review of conformity with funding criteria. Funds
for sub-projects estimated to cost between US$.60 and 1.0 per capita annually would be provided
against a recommended list of activities and a list of ineligible expenditures. Funds would flow to local
communities on a bi-annual basis from the central level and would be deposited in local accounts. As
in the case of the PNGT operation, communities/villages would be encouraged to collaborate and pool
resources in order to enhance the effectiveness of their interventions and to make better use of the
funds.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.20 million
12.    C. Targeted Interventions The third component aims to support interventions targeted to
- 36 -



vulnerable groups (e.g., youth, women of reproductive age, commercial sex workers, prisoners, truck
drivers, migrant workers), which are critical in curbing the pandemic. While provincial and community
authorities would be encouraged to target these groups, in practice they may not be well equipped to do so.
Hence, organizations with specialized expertise, proven track records and strong capacities to work with
these vulnerable groups would be encouraged to carry out targeted interventions. This component builds
on the relatively successful experience with funding of NGOs under the Norwegian grant accompanying the
IDA credit for the Population and AIDS Control Project. It also draws on internationally recognized
success stories with contracting of NGOs (Box 9). The SP-CNLS would invite proposals to be submitted
semi-annually or more frequently, as deemed necessary. Proposals would be selected by a national level
review panel on a competitive basis according to a list of eligibility criteria specified in the Implementation
Manual. NGO proposals would be selected based on technical quality (e.g. appropriateness of
methodology, extent to which target groups are being targeted, extent to which it addresses stated problems,
quality of proposed activities), experience and qualifications of staff, and managerial/financial capacity
(e.g. administrative and managerial capacities, co-financing potential, extent to which partnerships are
being established). The composition of the review panel and the procedures to be used would also be
clearly spelled out in the operational manual. Contracts would be signed between the SP-CNLS and the
respective executing agency. These contracts would stipulate the deliverables and expected outcomes (e.g.
in terms of behavior change). Activities to be funded would include: (a) preventive interventions such as
peer education coupled with condom distribution; (b) STI treatment and care; and (c) HIV testing and
counseling. The government is particularly keen to promote the use of umbrella NGOs which are
specialized in dealing with specific groups (e.g. commercial sex workers, youth, etc). The goal would be to
use umbrella NGOs for assisting smaller organizations which may not necessarily have the capacity to
prepare projects for submission. Annex 13 provides more details on the experience with contracting of
NGOs and on the contracting process.
Project Component 4 - US$3.60 million
13.   D. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation This component would support:
* Monitoring and evaluation, to set up and institutionalize a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
system for the national program; this would include, inter alia, support for the next Demographic and
Health Survey (2004/05); a bi-annual Behavioral Surveillance Survey to monitor behavioral change
among targeted groups; updating of a national baseline of HIV and STI incidence rates; and replication
of the mapping of high transmission areas. In addition, a management information system would be
put in place at the central level during project start up, to monitor both the technical and financial
aspects of project implementation. These activities are described in detail in Annex I l. Monitoring
and evaluation would also include support for technical and financial audits and for monitoring the
financial and physical execution
* Project Management The Project Management Unit would be responsible for the administrative and
financial management aspects of the project and would work closely with the SP-CNLS on the
technical aspects of the operation.
- 37 -



ANNEX 2b: Summary of the Government's 2001-05 HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Plan
The government's HIV/AIDS/STI strategic plan includes the following four main objectives
and activities:
Strategy 1: Strengthen preventive activities to reduce the transmission of STIs and HIV
Objective: To reduce the number of new HIV/AIDS infections by 25% in target groups and to reduce STI incidence rates by 25%.
Priority actions:
*      Promote low risk behavior
'      Promote condom utilization
Promote safe blood transfusion and hygienic practices in the work environment
'      Prevent HIV transmission from mother to child
'      Strengthen screening and treatment of STIs
*      Promote voluntary, confidential and anonymous testing
Strategy 2: Strengthen surveillance of the epidemic
Objective: To improve information systems and ensure notification of STIs/HIV/AIDS in 75% of health facilities.
Priority actions:
*      Use of syndromic techniques for STIs and AIDS notification
*      Organize sentinel sero-surveillance in targeted groups
'      Organize epidemiological and behavioral surveys and socio-economic impact studies
Strategy 3: Improve the quality of care of HIV-infected individuals andfor those affected by the epidemic
Objective: To ensure care and counseling in hospital and ambulatory care, following national guidelines, for at least 60% of detected cases, to ensure
community care and counseling for at least 60% of detected cases, for orphans, widows and their families, and to ensure psycho-social and economic support
for at least 600% of detected cases, orphans, widows and their families.
Priority actions:
'      Organize psycho-social and economic support for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS
*      Train staff in use of national guidelines for care and treatment
*      Develop counseling and screening in the health facilities
*      Develop community based health services
*      Develop a network for supplying essential drugs at the community level
*      Organize home based care
*      Develop ambulatory services
*      Develop strategies for prophylaxis and treatment with 10 and ARV drugs
'      Strengthen biomedical and diagnostic services
Strategy 4: Strengthen the national and international response andpromote multisectoral coordination among the various partners
Objective: Include at least 50% of the national partners in the fight against HIV/AIDS; increase the organizational and institutional capacities in at least 25%
of the institutions, NGOs, associations and community based organizations; and ensure the multisectoral coordination of all activities in the area of
STls/HIV/AIDS
Priority actions:
*      Strengthen regional and intemational collaboration
*      Strengthen multisectoral coordination of all actors and partners in the fight against HIV/AIDS
*      Strengthen organizational capacities of national institutions and community based organizations
*      Identify and develop advocacy strategies for the fight against HIV/AIDS
*      Strengthen decentralized structures
- 38 -



Annex 2c:
Core Set of Eligible HIVIAIDS Activities, by Executing Agency
Line Ministries                Communities              NGOs, Private Sector
Provinces                                                 & Associations
Prevention
Youth interventions (in school &                    V                              V                             V
out-of-school youth)                          Ministry of Education,
Youth & Sports
Sex worker interventions                                                                                         V
Public sector condom distribution                   V
Condom social marketing                                                            V                             V
STD treatment services                                                                                          V /
Ministry of Health
Voluntary counseling and testing                    V                                                            V
Ministry of Health
Workplace interventions                              /                                                           V
Blood transfusion services                          V I
Ministry of Health
Prevention of mother-to-child transmission           /
Ministry of Health
Mass media campaigns
Basic Care
Palliative care                                     V                              V                             V
Ministry of Health
Clinical management of opportunistic                I/ 
infections                                      Ministry of Health
Prevennion of opportunistic infections              V/                                                           V
Ministry of Health
Home-based care for AIDS patients                                                  V                             V
Care for children                                   V                              V                             V
Ministry of Health
Support for orphans                                                                V                             V
Psycho-social support and counseling                V                              V                             V
Mitigation
Income generating activities                                                       V                             V
Other
- 39 -



Policy Formulation                              /
Epidemiological Surveillance                    V
Ministry of Hiealth
Monitoring & Evaluation                         V                          V                           V
Capacity Building                                                           /
- 40 -



Annex 2d:
Summary of Procedures for Selection of Work Programs, Sub-Projects and NGOs
National Public Multi-Sectoral          Community sub-projects            Targeted Interventions Through
Work Programs                                                                   NGOs
Amounts per work             US$100,000 on average annually      US$.60 to US$ 1.0 per capita annually         To be determined
programlsub-projectpropos
al (US$):
Activities eligible for     *  Preventive interventions     *  Awareness, advocacy, peer education and     Preventive interventions (peer
financing:                  *  Policy development               condom promotion                       education, condom distribution)
*  Psycho-social counseling     *  Home-based care and support             *  STI treatment and care
*  Capacity building            *  Care of orphans                         *  HIV testing and counseling
'  Income generating activities
Plans/                      Line ministries in collaboration with  Community representatives in collaboration with   NGOs & associations
proposals prepared by:     their decentralized technical services Village Technical AIDS Committee
Plans/                      SP-CNLS                         Provincial Technical HIV/AIDS Committees   National Review Panel
proposals reviewed by:
Plans/ proposals approved    SP-CNLS                        Provincial Technical HIV/AIDS Committees   National Review Panel
by:
Plansl                      Annually                        Ongoing                                     Semi-annually
proposals submitted:
Funding mechanism:          Funds flow from Project         Funds flow from central Project Management Unit Contracts with tranch disbursements
Management Unit to a separate  to village bank accounts                    linked to results
account in each line ministry
- 41 -



Project Cycle for Work Programs Within Public Sector
1. Launch &                2. Training           3. Preparation            4. Plans
promote the         d      and capacity          of                        reviewed
project at                 building              plans/proposals,
national,
provincial, and
community level
5b. Plans sent      Sa. Proposed
for approval        changes made
and plans
A   resubmitted
for review
8a. Execution
of plans and
9. Evaluation           sub-projects             7. Budgets                6.
8. Self            W    allocated                 Plans/proposals
8b. Self-                                         and budgets
assessments                                       approved
and monitoring
of
implementation
- 42 -



Project Cyclefor Contracts with NGOs & Private Sector
4. Proposals reviewed
2. Letters of                                     to ensure they meet
Interest sent to                                  basic criteria
the National
Coordinating
Body
5. Technical
evaluation of
the proposals
and clo    n                                                               and the
organizations
LJF                                                                    6. Financial
evaluation of
the proposals
IOa. Execution
of plans and
sub projects           9  oteig8. Field visits, as
of                      necessary to                7. Ranking and
organizations          enuinformation is           selection of
lOb.                                           infornationis.               proposals based
Monitoring                                     correct or verify           on technical and
and self-                                      information                 financial
assessment of                                                              evaluation
implementation
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BURKINA FASO: HIVIAIDS Disaster Response Project
Local        Foreign         Total
Proiect Cost By Component                   US $million    US $million    US $miltion
1. Line Ministry Work Programs                                 5.80          4.40          10.20
2. Provincial Activities and Community sub-projects            5.10          0.00           5.10
3. Targeted Interventions                                      4.20          0.00           4.20
4. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation                     2.10           1.40          3.50
Total Baseline Cost                                           17.20          5.80          23.00
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.20          0.30           0.50
Total Project Costs                17.40          6.10          23.50
Total Financing Required                 17.40          6.10          23.50
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                   US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                            1.30           4.20           5.50
Works                                                            0.30           0.40          0.70
Services                                                         5.00           0.90          5.90
Training                                                         1.10           0.30           1.40
Work Program Agreements                                          3.80           0.00           3.80
Community Sub-projects                                           4.70           0.00          4.70
Operating Costs                                                  1.00           0.00           1.00
Price Contingencies                                            0.20           0.30           0.50
Total Project Costs      17.40            6.10         23.50
Total Financing Required       17.40            6.10         23.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.4 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 23.1 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 95.24% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 44 -



Annex 4
BURKINA FASO: HIVIAIDS Disaster Response Project
1.    The "Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS" contained in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Progran (MAP) for the Africa Region (Document No. IDA/R2000-155
discussed on September 12, 2000) provides the overall economic justification for the Burkina HIV/AIDS
Disaster Response Project.
- 45 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Years Ending
Year3 I   Year4 I Year3                         5 Year4  Year6 6  Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            3.4        6.0        6.2        6.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           3.7        6.3        6.5        7.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               3.7        6.3        6.5        7.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    3.4        5.9        6.1        6.7        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.3        0.4        0.3        0.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.7        6.3        6.5         7.1       0.0        0.0        0.0
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Main assumptions:
- 46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Procurement
General
1.           Public procurement in Burkina Faso is regulated by decree No. 96-059/PRES/PM/MEF of
March 7, 1996. Its application is elaborated in several ministerial directives. In general, Burkina Faso's
laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA guidelines and allow IDA procedures to take precedence over
any contrary provision in national laws and regulations. A Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) was carried out in November 1999 and published in November 2000. The laws, decrees and "
arr&es" are currently being revised by an inter-ministerial committee (Comite inter-ministeriel charge de
la relecture de la r4g!ementation des marches publics) to address the issues raised in the CPAR. The
findings and recommendations of the CPAR are valid for this Project. With regard to the project, the
following issues have affected implementation: a) insufficient monitoring of contracts; b) delays in
payment for counterpart funds ; c) insufficient planning of procurement of goods, works and services; d)
lack of training in procurement for project staff. The issues raised in the CPAR were also confirmed by a
formal Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Project Coordination Unit of the Population and AIDS
Project (Cr. 2619-BUR) and of key technical ministries (health, basic education, and agriculture)
conducted during appraisal. Provisions for strengthening of procurement capacity in this project are
described in the Procurement Implementation Arrangements section below.
2.           National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried out in
accordance with Burkina procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that: (i) all
bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are
clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no margin of preference is granted to domestic contractors and
manufacturers; (iv) no bid is rejected during bid opening; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from
participation; and (vi) award is made to the lowest evaluated bid to the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources in accordance with predetermined criteria specified in the bidding
documents. Standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works prepared by the project
and found acceptable to the Bank will be used during project implementation for NCB.
Guidelines
3.           All civil works and goods would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999" (Guidelines). Bank's standard bidding documents and standard
evaluation forms would be used where practicable. Procurement carried out for community sub-projects
would be carried out in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines (Community Participation in
Procurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998). These would be described in a specific chapter of the
project Implemention Manual currently prepared for the management of community sub-projects. All
procurement of consultant services would be done in accordance with "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999" (Consultant's Guidelines). Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals will be used for the
selection of consultants and the Bank's model form for the evaluation of consultant's proposals will be used
where practicable. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments -- simple mission of
- 47 -



standard nature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by individual consultants or firms.
Simplified requests for proposals acceptable to IDA for the hiring of individual consultants will also be
used.
Advertising
4.        A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN Development Business and
in a national newspaper immediately after negotiations. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and
would show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all
International Consulting Services. Specific Procurement Notices for goods to be procured under ICB and
Expressions of Interest for consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 and above
would also be published in the Development Business as well as in the national press.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
5.           A formal assessment of the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit of the ongoing
Population and AIDS project (Cr. 2619-BUR) and key technical ministries (health, basic education, and
agriculture) has been carried out in accordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR)
guidelines dated August 11, 1998. The assessment outlines the main issues and recommendations and is in
the project files. Based on these recommendations, the following action plan was agreed with the Borrower:
(a) for the Project Coordination Unit of PPLS which will become the Project Management Unit (PMU):
(i) strengthening the procurement planning process through adequate training and guidance from IDA and
external technical audits specific to procurement (a model of terms of reference was given to the PPLS
during appraisal); (ii) training of key staff in IDA's procurement procedures if revised; (iii) logistics
support for proper filing of procurement documentation; (b) for line ministries: (i) training of key staff
currently responsible for procurement under national budget on shopping and filing procedures according to
the Bank's guidelines and good filing practices; (ii) provision of key support materials (i.e., computer,
filing supplies) where needed and if there is no other source of funding (i.e., IDA ongoing operations); (iii)
annual external technical audits specific to procurement and of pedagogical nature.
6.           Since the PMU would be responsible for coordinating project implementation, the
Government has agreed during negotiations to the hiring of the current contractual staff working in the
PPLS who has extensive experience in IDA-financed procurement. PMU personnel will be recruited by
effectiveness. The PMU will be responsible for: (a) coordinating activities of participating agencies; (b)
handling procurement of equipment, pharmaceutical products, national and international training, services;
(c) providing procurement support to line ministries, provinces (Comite technique provincial de lutte
contre le SIDA, CTPLS) and communities; and (d) handling financial management and accounting.
7.           Procurement and financial/accounting management capacity at the provincial level is
weak. It was therefore agreed that an annual maximum allocation of $1,000 equivalent would be made
available to each CTPLS located in the 45 provinces under petty cash arrangements. This allocation would
be used for small size expenditures of recurrent nature to allow for CTPLS to carry out training of its staff
on issues pertaining to HIV/AIDS and to oversee the selection of community sub-projects.
S.           For community sub-projects, the communities, through their representative committees,
would be responsible for the procurement process using simplified procurement procedures as described in
the project Implementation Manual. The adoption of the manual satisfactory to IDA is a condition of
effectiveness.  Sub-project proposals from commnunities would indicate how procurement would be
organized including any support that would be necessary from the provinces through the CTPLS.
- 48 -



9.           In order to ensure that participating agencies (line ministries, provinces, communities) are
familiar with Bank procurement guidelines in general and the procurement procedures in this project in
particular, the PMU with the assistance of IDA, would provide a series of workshops, with the first
workshop being organized at effectiveness. The subsequent workshops would be organized so as to
coincide with IDA supervision missions when the Procurement Specialist would conduct the workshops as
part of the supervision mission. The costs of these workshops would be included in the project. These
workshops would also act as forums to review procurement problems experienced during project
implementation with a view to identify measures that would address these problems. The PMU as well as
annual external technical audits will also play a critical role in providing assistance to line ministries and
other participating agencies in carrying out their activities in accordance with the project Implementation
Manual.
Procurement Planning
10.          Draft procurement plans have been prepared during appraisal for all procurement to be
carried out at the national level for the first year activities. The final plans will be submitted to IDA before
effectiveness. The exact mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the annual joint
reviews between the PMU, line ministries, IDA, and other partners, where a draft procurement plan for the
following financial year will be presented and agreed upon. The detailed procurement plans for subsequent
years will be developed and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant
information on goods, works, and consulting services under the project as well as the timing of each
milestone in the procurement process. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision missions and by
the extemal technical audits. This being a multi-sector project, the respective annual plans would also need
to be closely coordinated with other operations in the various sectors such as the Basic Education Program
(under preparation) and the Community-based Rural Development Project (recently signed). To this end,
one of the key responsibility of the focal point for the fight against HIV/AIDS named in each of the line
ministry will be to ensure that risks of overlapping and uncoordinated efforts are minimized as much as
possible by keeping track of activities financed under ongoing IDA operations and or other sources of
financing in the area of HIV/AIDS.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
11.          The overall coordination of the program implementation would be carried out by the PMU,
with each line ministry, CTPLS, SP-CNLS, and community responsible for implementation of their
relevant work programs or sub-projects. Procurement would be done at three levels: national (PMU, line
ministries, SP-CNLS), CTPLS, and community. The procurement implementation arrangements are as
described below.
12.          At the national level, the PMU would be responsible for procuring all the large ticket items
under ICB and NCB procedures and all consulting services. It will seek the services of Faso Baraa for the
procurement of civil works. Procurement by the line ministries and SP-CNLS would be limited to
expenditures in support of their respective approved work program at an estimated cost of less than 15
million CFA Francs per contract (IEC materials, workshops, training, and operations). Procurement at the
CTPLS level will be limited to less than 700,000 Francs CFA per year through petty cash arrangements
and will include small supplies, per diem and transportation in support of training and sub-project
selection. Procurement for community sub-projects would be carried out by the communities themselves
and could include: minor repair works, purchase of drugs and supplies in small quantities, care and support
for AIDS patients and orphans, AIDS prevention activities. Assessment and approval of community
- 49 -



sub-projects would be based on applications received from the respective committees and comnmunities
against a standard menu of activities. A project Implementation Manual, including a description of
sub-project procedures satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
Procurement Methods
13.       Civil Works include the extension of the "Centre de traitement ambulatoire" (CTA) of
Ouagadougou and of the office of the Permanent Secretariat of the "Conseil National de Lutte contre le
SIDA et les IST" (SP-CNLS) and the construction of a CTA in Bobo-Dioulasso, which are unlikely to
attract foreign contractors. The total cost for works estimated at less than US$300,000 per contract up to
an aggregate of US$700,000 equivalent will be carried out by Faso Baraa under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. As part of the community sub-projects, small works will
mostly consist of works related to small community structures such as care centers, youth facilities, and
community meeting facilities. These small works are estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 million equivalent. They may be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors
invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant
drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
14.       Goods. The total cost of goods is estimated at US$5.8 million equivalent for the project, not
including contracts for goods under the conmmunity sub-projects. The items would include: office,
audio-visual, and laboratory equipment; vehicles; pharmaceutical products (e.g. reagents), condoms;
diagnostic kits; pharmaceuticals for the clinical management of HIV/AIDS and opportunistic infections,
including TB; IEC materials, and other project related supplies. Procurement of goods will be bulked where
feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more per package and will be procured through
ICB. Preference for domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000
equivalent would be procured through national competitive bidding. The Bank's standard bidding document
for the procurement of goods suitably modified would be submitted to IDA by the PMU for prior review.
The approved document would form the basis of all national competitive bidding procurements under this
project.
(b) Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured by line ministries, SP-CNLS, and CTPLS (as part of approved work program agreements, and up
to an aggregate of $3.8 million equivalent) through National Shopping procedures. In the case when a
contract for goods costs the equivalent or more than $20,000, the PMU will carry out such procurement on
behalf of these entities. The PMU may procure goods to cost less than US$50,000 per contract through
National Shopping procedures (for goods available locally) and/or through International Shopping
procedures (for those goods not available on the national market), and/or through the United Nations
Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO), all up to an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent, in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines
(c) The procedures followed and the total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under
the project, will be reviewed after six months of project implementation. Depending on performance and
- 50 -



the results of the review, the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary. Standard request
forms and establishment of guidelines for conducting the shopping methods have been discussed during the
appraisal as per the Bank's memorandum of June 8, 2000 on "Guidance Procurement Note on Handling
Procurement under Shopping Method" and will be included in the project Implementation Manual.
(d) Procurement of reagents for HIV/AIDS considered as proprietary items costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$500,000 million equivalent, may be procured
directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors in view of the requirements of existing
laboratory/testing equipment.
15.          Grants for community sub-projects. The project will finance community sub-projects
related to HIV/AIDS activities (total is estimated at $4.5 million equivalent), such as IEC-related activities
and materials, minor repairs or works, purchase of generic drugs, care and support for AIDS patients and
orphans, awareness campaigns, income generating activities for persons living with HIV/AIDS and their
dependents. Funding for these activities will be in the form of grants. Communities will be required to
contribute 5 percent of the total budget in kind or in cash.
16.          Financing will depend on applications received from communities and NGOs and private
organizations against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods,
small works, and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature.
Therefore, the types of activities to be financed and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identified by the communities. Procurement of items for the implementation of sub-projects would be
carried out in accordance with simplified procurement procedures referred to in Section 3.15 of the
Guidelines and in accordance with the project Implementation Manual. The manual will contain a special
chapter describing the procedures and tools in accordance with those found in the Bank's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998). The
PMU will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines. Ex-post reviews of random
sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent technical audits.
17.          Aggregate amounts are limitative, therefore, the PMU responsible for procurement will
maintain a tracking system to ensure that they are not exceeded the specified amounts, and that IDA is
advised in a timely fashion when it is likely to happen.
Consulting Services, Studies, and Training
18.          The consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA would be for the following
types of activities: studies and surveys related to the monitoring and evaluation activities, trainers,
community development specialists, public relations firms (IEC campaigns), procurement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation, audit, and accounting specialists. The PMU would ensure that
procurement notices are widely publicized to get candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals).
Based on agreed upon criteria, the PMU will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to
establish short-lists. The following selection procedures would be used:
(a)    Quality-and-Cost-based Selection:  All consulting service contracts for firms
would be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure that priority is
given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated
at or less than USS100,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants (in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of
qualified individual or firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firrns have expressed
- 51 -



interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.
(b)    Consultant's Qualification Selection may be used for consulting services for
research, and targeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to
work with vulnerable groups and proven track records would be recruited. The amount of the contract is
estimated to cost less than US$50,000. This method may also be used for the selection of training
institutions when training cost exceeds US$50,000 equivalent per contract.
(c)    Single-source Selection may be used for services procured (i) for the hiring of the
local contract management agency (Faso Baraa) in charge of the extension and the construction of the
CTAs and the extension of the CNLS; (ii) for consulting assignments such as those provided by NGOs or
other organizations to assist provinces and community sub-projects costing less than S5,000 up to an
aggregate of $500,000 million equivalent; and (iv) for beneficiary assessments in view of the specific
nature and requirements of the methodology.
(d)    Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants method.
Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of curriculum vitae against job description
requirements of those expressing interest in the assignment, or those having been identified directly by the
Borrower. Consultants hired under the project cannot be civil servants.
19.           Training, Workshops, and Conferences. The total cost of these activities is estimated at
$1.4 million equivalent for the project. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be
carried out on the basis of approved annual programs that will identify the general frarnework of training
and similar activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of
participants, and cost estimates.
Prior Review
20.           Table B provides the prior review thresholds. All ICB, the first three NCB contracts, and
direct contracting for works and goods would be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 Appendix
I of the Guidelines. All other contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4
Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms
would be subject to IDA prior review. For consulting contracts costing less than US$100,000, but more
than US$50,000, the Borrower will notify the Bank of the results of the technical evaluation prior to
opening the financial offers. With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terrns of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review.   Any
arnendments to existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review
thresholds are subject to IDA review.
21.           All terms of reference and all single-source selection of consultants would be subject to
IDA prior review. Other procurement subject to IDA review would include: annual training plans for local
and overseas training and workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. All out of
country training will be subject to IDA approval.
Post Review
22.           Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national and
- 52 -



community) would be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds during IDA
supervision missions and through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, I out of 10 contracts
managed by the PMU and I out of 3 contracts managed by line ministries for goods will be subject to post
review. Post-reviews of in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review the selection of
institutions/course contents/trainees and justifications thereof, and costs incurred. Annual independent
technical audits (ex-post procurement audits) would: (a) verify that the procurement and contracting
procedures and processes followed for the projects were in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness of each
contract in the selected representative sample; (c) review and comment on contract administration and
management issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review capacity of participating agencies in
handling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements in the procurement process in the light of
any identified deficiencies. All thresholds stated in this section will be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA
on an annual basis. Amendments may be agreed upon based on perforrnance and actual values of
procurement implemented.  Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement may be proposed
accordingly.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB          Other         N.B.F,   Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             0.70           0.00         0.00         0.70
(0.00)          (0.60)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.60)
2. Goods                             3.80             0.80           0.70          0.50        5.80
(3.80)          (0.70)         (0.70)        (0.00)      (5.20)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00           7.40         0.00         7.40
and Training                        (0.00)           (0.00)         (7.40)        (0.00)      (7.40)
4. Work Program Agreements           0.00             0.00           3.80          0.00        3.80
(line ministries/provinces)
(0.00)          (0.00)         (3.60)        (0.00)      (3.60)
S. Community Sub-projects            0.00             0.00          4.50          0.20         4.70
(0.00)          (0.00)         (4.50)        (0.00)      (4.50)
6. Operating Costs                   0.00             0.00           1.10         0.00         1.10
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.70)        (0.00)      (0.70)
Total                             3.80             1.50          17.50          0.70        23.50
(3.80)          (1.30)        (16.90)        (0.00)      (22.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes works and goods to be procured through national and international shopping and/or through UN
agencies, direct contracting (reagents of proprietary nature), consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to project management.
- 53 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Suwject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                    > or equal to 100             NCB              1 st 3 contract packages
a) Extension and                                                                   (0.4)
construction of CTAs and
Extension of SP-CNLS
b) Small works under
Community-based                  <20             Lump-sum, fixed price on       Post-review
Subprojects                                      the basis of 3 quotations
2. Goods                    > or equal to 100             ICB                       All
(3.8)
< 100                    NCB              1st 3 contract packages
(1.0)
< 50             Shopping/UN Agencies          post review
< 50               Direct Contracting             All
(0.5)
< 20                  Shopping          post review (line ministries,
provinces)
3. Services:
Firms                      > or equal to 100             QCBS                      All
< 100                QCBS/CQ/SS                   (3.0)
SS: all; others: post-review
4. Services:
Individuals                 > or equal to 50             3 CVs                     All
< 50                    3 CVs                     (0.1)
Post-review
Training, Study Tours,           > 50                      CQ                       All
Conference, Workshops       < or equal to 50          Annual Plans                 (0.7)
Post-review, but all annual
training plans, study tours,
conference and workshops
to be reviewed by IDA for
l___________________ ____________|________ ______________________approval
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    USS9.5 million
- 54 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Documentation emanating from the formal Procurement Capacity Assessments of the PMU, key line
ministries (Health, Basic Education, and Agriculture) and agreed action plan for minimizing the
procurement risks are found in the project files.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$million            Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                                 0.50            100 % of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
2. Goods and Vehicles                          5.40             100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
.______________________________            of local expenditures
3. Consultants' Services, including            6.00                            100%
audits and training
4. Subprojects                                 4.20                  100% of amounts disbursed
5. Work Programs                               3.40                            90%
6. Operating Costs                             0.50             95% up to December 31, 2002; 85%
thereafter
7. Unallocated                                 2.00
Total Project Costs                            22.00           __             _       _=
Total                                          22.00
23.        The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period according to the categories shown
in Table C above, and the Credit closing date would be six months after the fourth year to allow payment of
last invoices for contracts completed before the completion time. Government counterpart funds needed for
each fiscal year to cover the share of recurrent costs not financed by IDA will be deposited by the
Government in a Project Account managed by the PMU on a semi-annual basis.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
24.        Disbursements for all expenditures would be made against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures for: (a) contracts for consulting firms in an amount inferior to $100,000 equivalent, (b) contracts
for individual consultants in an amount inferior to $50,000 equivalent, (c) contracts for works and goods, in an
amount inferior to $100,000, and (d) community sub-projects, work programs, training and operating costs,
which would be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained at a suitable location at the level of the community, province, line Ministry and PMU
and readily accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Special account:
25.        To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, the PMU
will open two Special Accounts in FCFA in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Special Account A will
finance the community subprojects while Special Account B will finance all other project expenditures
including Work Program Agreements for the line Ministries and the SP-CNLS. The authorized allocation
would be FCFA 300 million for Special Account A and FCFA 1.2 billion for Special Account B, and would
cover about six months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA would deposit the amount of
FCFA 150 million into Special Account A and FCFA 600 million into Special Account B representing fifty
percent of the authorized allocations.
26.        The remaining balance would be made available when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from
the credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
- 56 -



shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of $2 million for Special Account A and S8 million for Special
Account B. The Special Account would be used for all payments inferior to twenty percent of the authorized
allocation and replenishment applications would be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the
Special Accounts would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
Counterpart Funds
27.        Total counterpart funds are estimated at US$1.3 million. As a condition of credit effectiveness,
the Government will open a Project Account and deposit an initial amount of US$50,000 equivalent, which
represents the first quarter of counterpart expenditures for the Project.
Financial Management Arrangements
28.        The design of the financial management system for the Burkina operation draws heavily on basic
principles of sound financial management under the MAP (Box 6). Particular attention was given to adopting
elements of best practice from the basic financial management systems of other IDA-funded projects in
Burkina (i.e. PDSN). The PDSN operation has successfully decentralized financial management to health
districts, relying on a performance based contractual approach for financing annual work programs.
29.        The procedures for channeling funds from the PMU to the line ministries under the Line Ministry
Work Program Component will be broadly similar to those used in the PDSN, including annual work
programs based on clearly specified deliverables and delegation of financial management responsibilities to
each line ministry. This will involve drawing up Memoranduim of Understanding between the line ministries
and the SP-CNLS.
30.        With regard to the Community Sub-Projects, the specific mechanism to be incorporated into the
financial management system for this sub-component is being tested under a pilot scheme that is being
financed under the restructured Population and AIDS Project (PPLS). A draft administrative, accounting, and
financial manual of procedures to that effect has already been reviewed by a Bank Financial Management
Specialist in September 2000.
31.        This manual of procedures is being broadened to cover all components of the proposed project.
Financial management consultants have been recruited to assist the borrower in elaborating the manual of
procedures and in designing the financial management system. The proposed institutional arrangements
which are being set up to effect fund flows between levels, is expected to have built-in mechanisms to ensure
accountability and produce financial reports on a timely basis.  A final copy of the manual of procedures,
incorporating the Bank's comments, would be available in time for the implementation of the HIV/AIDS
Disaster Response Project. At the end of the implementation of the pilot scheme a final and comprehensive
financial management assessment will be carried out to determine the extent of reinforcement and correction
required to scale up the financial system.
32.        Roles and Responsibilities. At the central level the PMU would have overall responsibility for
financial management. The PMU oversight role would include, inter alia_ management of the special
accounts, preparation of consolidated financial statements, contracting of random audits, standard financial
reporting functions, and coordination with the SP-CNLS and other stakeholders on the technical aspects of the
project.
33.        The PMU would include, at a minimum, a financial manager, a procurement specialist and
several accounting staff (e.g. chief accountant, a couple of assistant accountants). In addition, an internal
auditor would be recruited to ensure that the internal control procedures are adequately applied. At the
provincial level, the responsibility for financial management aspects would be delegated to the
financial/administrative officer working for the provincial authorities. Because of its extensive experience and
demonstrated capacity in managing IDA funds under the ongoing Population and AIDS Project (PPLS), this
- 57 -



PMU would be retained to manage and ensure that financial management and reporting procedures follow
international standards acceptable to IDA for the new project. These arrangements were firmed up during
negotiations with the recruitment of additional staff to be completed prior to credit effectiveness.
34.        The MAP operation would increase substantially the activities to be managed and monitored by
the PMU. Backstopping from the PMU and capacity building in managing basic financial records at the
community level would be provided through collaborating civil society and community based organizations
with expertise in these areas, as deemed necessary. At the line ministry level, the respective Direction de
l'Administration et des Finances (DAF) with the support of a contractual qualified accountant would be
responsible for managing funds allocated to carry out its agreed annual work program agreement. At the
community level, the Comite Technique Villageois de la Lutte contre le SIDA (CTVLS) would have similar
responsibilities.
35.        Key Features The PMU would put in place an appropriate financial and accounting system for
the project, including a comprehensive Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures and
an adequate accounting software. The Manual would outline the main activities to be carried out and their
timing, to ensure the readiness of the system before credit effectiveness. The Manual would include a
description of the intemal control and accounting system, management and flow of funds, documentation and
reporting requirements, budgetary procedures, and procurement guidelines and procedures to be used by all
stakeholders.  Key activities to be carried out include: (i) defining the organizational structure for the
operation, and the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders; (ii) preparing an accounting manual and
designing the accounting system, (iii) defining the main accounting principles to be applied, and the frequency
of the various financial reports, and (iv) elaborating appropriate internal control procedures. The adoption of
the Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures satisfactory to IDA is a condition credit
effectiveness.
36.        For the purpose of monitoring, the financial statements would include but not be limited to the
following:
(a) Summary Sources and Uses of Funds, showing IDA and counterpart funds separately;
(b) Annual Work Programs with respect to line Ministries. For subsequent semesters, financial
statements and performance based progress reports;
(c) Special account reconciliation along with the bank statements showing deposits and
replenishments received and payments effected for carrying out activities; and
(d) Uses of Funds by Credit Activity, summarizing credit expenditures by line item, consistent
with the objectives and activities supported under this operation.
37.        Flow of Funds. IDA funds will be managed by the PMU and will flow from two separate Special
Accounts opened by the Project in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Funds deposited in Special Account
A will be dedicated to ensure timely payments for community sub-projects. Funds deposited in Special
Account B will be used for all other payments (i.e., line ministries, CTPLS, NGOs, CBOs, SP-CNLS, and
PMU).
38.        Funds will be transferred directly from Special Account A to the village or urban community
account with its Caisse Populaire or commercial bank for the purpose of carrying out the communitiy
sub-projects. Two payments only will be made under each sub-project. The first payment will be triggered by
an approved sub-project submitted to the PMU, while the second payment will occur once the village/urban
community has submitted a satisfactory certificate of progress issued by CTPLS, and as described in the
project implementation manual. Sub-project documentation will be held by the village/urban community and
will be audited by the project's external auditors on a sample basis and routinely by CTPLS.
- 58 -



39.        Funds deposited in Special Account B will be used by the PMU to effect payments to:
(a) Line ministries and SP-CNLS on the basis of an annual Work Program Agreements, approved
by the SP-CNLS (for line ministries) and by the CNLS (for the SP-CNLS). Transfers from Special Account B
to line ministries will be in semi-annual tranches triggered by the work program agreement for the first
payment and submission of adequate financial and technical progress reports, including a bank statement and
related reconciliation statement for all subsequent payments;
(b) NGOs and Associations to carry out targeted interventions. They will be selected based on
the consultant's qualifications method in accordance with the criteria and processes, which will be described
in the implementation manual. A standard model contract will be used to that end;
(c) CTPLS at the provincial level for monthly deposits in an imprest account to finance operating
costs to carry out activities related to HIV/AIDS (i.e., small supplies, etc.) under petty cash arrangements.
All training costs will be managed by the PMU. The unit will also manage large contracts under
the project for goods, services, training, approved at.the different levels.
40.        PMR-based Disbursement. An assessment and a related action plan designed to update and
strengthen the PMU's current financial management system that will lead to the adoption of PMR-based
disbursements was prepared. These documents are found in the project files. Agreement on the action plan
was reached during negotiations.
41.        Audit. The PMU through its Financial Manager, assisted by a cadre of competent and
experienced accountants and administrative support staff, would establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of
IDA and the Government, the accounts and records to be used exclusively for the MAP operation. The
accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally accepted accounting principles
and Government of Burkina Faso financial reporting requirements. The financial and accounting staff would
produce the quarterly financial statements to be audited by an independent auditing firm with experience
acceptable to IDA. It is also expected that the Financial Controller of the Ministry of Economy and Finances
and/or the Contr6le General d'Etat of the Govemment which have acquired substantial experience in auditing
public funds would be responsible for carrying out monthly financial reviews to ensure that the funds are duly
received by the commnunities and spent for their intended purposes. This arrangement is justified considering
the large number of disbursements to be effected and the multiple recipients, and the generally weak capacity
of community organizations.
42.        Each line ministry would submit semi-annual financial reports to the PMU. The unit would
consolidate all project financial reports and prepare the project financial statements for auditing purposes.
Annual financial audits, to be carried out in compliance with internationally accepted audit standards, would
cover Bank requirements for audit of the project accounts and review of intemal control systems, when
implemented, as well as review of the SOEs. Audit reports on project financial statements would include, in
addition to the auditors' short form report and opinion, separate audit opinions on the Special Accounts and
SOE, as well as a Management Letter. Community sub-projects would also be audited on a sample basis. All
necessary documentation supporting the MAP-related disbursements and financial transactions will be
maintained at the respective level for inspection by IDA supervision missions, Government, and the
independent auditors.
- 59 -



Box 6: Key Pnciplesfor Financi  Management under the MAP
O  Appraisal and approval of pmjects on a decentralized basis (e.g., a tiered approach with small projects
approved at the local level, larger projects approved at the provincial or district level, and the largest
projects approved at the national level).
   Inclusion of in-kind contributions from paticipating local and community organizations.
O  Direct flow of funds, as feasible, from the central coordination unit to implementing entities based on an
agreed-upon tranche schedule.
o  Facilitation, monitoring, coordination, and capacity building at the local and community level by
intermediary organizations (both NGOs and private sector firms).
o  Integrated reporting on physical progress and financial results.
O  Review and approval of integrted Teports prior to disbursement of the next tranche and/or approval of
additional sub-projects.
O  Annual independent externa audits of community and local implementing entities on a random sample
basis.
|    Transparency and accountability to final beneficiaries at the local level. including publication in local
language of the project-funded activities (e.g. name of the implementing entity, amount of the grant,
description of the activi*tis, repor on the progress of activities, and audit reports).
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       11                            8
First Bank mission (identification)                                            09/11/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      03/26/2001                    03/26/2001
Negotiations                                     05/12/2001                    05/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/31/2001
Prepared by:
1.    The project has been prepared by a large multi-disciplinary team in collaboration with government
counterparts and development partners in Burkina.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Miriam Schneidman                  Task Team Leader
Caroline Cederlof                  Economist
Ibrahim Magagi                     Senior Health Specialist
Hans Binswanger                    Sector Director, Rural Development & Environment
Jane Hopkins                       Senior Agricultural Economist
Ibrahim Nebie                      Senior Agricultural Extension Specialist
Celestin Bado                      Senior Operations Officer
Donald Bundy                       School Health Specialist
John May                           Senior Population Specialist
Mead Over                          Senior Economist
Larry Salmen                       Senior Sociologist
Elca Rosenberg                     Senior Economist, SP
Christy Hanson                     TB Specialist
Mark Blackden                      Lead Economist
Shimwaayi Muntemba                 Senior Social Scientist
Johanne Angers                     Operations Officer
Mamadou Yaro                       Financial Management Specialist
Siaka Bakayoko                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Renee Desclaux                     Disbursement Officer
Pascale Helene Dubois              Senior Counsel
Kamla Devi Pariadhaven             Program Assistant
Nicole Hamon                       Program Assistant
Suzane Rayaisse                    Team Assistant
- 61 -



Peer Reviewers:
Internal Quality Advisors:
Susan Stout, Lead Implementation Specialist
Anwar Bach-Baouab, Lead Operations Officer
Gaston Sorgho, Health Specialist
Wendy Roseberry, Senior Technical Specialist (Health)
Jonathan Brown, Operations Advisor
External Reviewers:
*     Jean Louis Lamboray, Senior Advisor, Policy Strategy and Research, UNAIDS
*     Barbara de Zaldoundo, Project Director, The Synergy Project
Quality Assurance Arrangements:
2.    A Quality Enhancement Review was organized in January 2001 to provide
feedback to the team on the design of the operation. Panel members included
Messrs/Mmes Michael Azefor (Senior Public Health Specialist), Ed Bos
(Demographer, Population Specialist), Ruth Levine (Senior Economist, Health), Dan
Ritchie (Chair), and Susan Stout (Lead Implementation Specialist).
- 62 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
-- Draft Operational Manual (in preparation)
-- Draft Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual (in preparation)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank aide memoires
* Preparation mission; September 2000.
* Pre-Appraisal mission; December 2000.
*  Appraisal mission; March/April 2001, including formal Procurement Capacity Assessments of
PMU, Ministries of Health, Basic Education, and Agriculture; agreed action plan for procurement
capacity strengthening.
*  PMR-based disbursements: action plan and technical notes.
C. Other
Amon J., T. Brown, J.Hogle, J. MacNeil, R.Magnani, S. Mills, E. Pisani, T. Rehle, T. Saidel, C. Sow.,
Behavioral Surveillance Surveys: Guidelines for repeated behavioral surveys in populations at risk of
HIV, Family Health International, 2000.
Auregan, et. al. (12 April 2000), Epidemie du VIHISIDA au Burkina Faso: Diagnostics et reponses
operationnelles.
Burkina Faso: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint World Bank-IMF Staff Assessment of the
PRSP, World Bank; June 2000
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Burkina Faso; November 2000
PHRD Grant Request, World Bank; January 2001
Cadre Strategique du Plan National Multisectoriel de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA au Burkina
Faso 2001-2005 (Document provisoire); Ministere de la Sante; Juin 2000
Costs of Scaling HIVProgram Activities to a National Level in Sub-Saharan Africa: Methods and
Estimates, AIDS Campaign Team for Africa, The World Bank, November 2000.
Enquete Demographique et de Sante, Institut National de la Statistique et de la Demographie Burkina
Faso; 1993.
Epidemie du VIH/SIDA (version preliminaire)PNUD, Cooperation Francaise, IPC: BURKINA FASO
2000; Avril 2000
Epidemiological Fact Sheet on HIVIAIDS and STI, UNAIDS, WHO, BURKINA FASO;   2000
Update
- 63 -



Evaluation du Volet Tuberculose du Programme National Lepre/Tuberculose du Burkina Faso
(Rapport de Mission), OMS, UICTMR, KIT; Janvier 2000
Financing HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment: Results from Rwanda's National Health Accounts,
November 2000, Abt Associates.
Guide pour la prise en charge des personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA au Niveau Communautaire
(2eme edition), Ministere de la Sante; Septembre 2000
IntensifyingAction AgainstHIV/AIDSinAfrica, Afiica Region, The World Bank, August 1999.
Plan National Multisectoriel de lutte contre les infections sexuellement transmissibles et le VIHISIDA
2001-2003 (Document provisoire), Ministere de la Sante; Juin 2000
Politique Nationale de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et les IST, Ministere de la Sante; Juin 2000
Politique Nationale de lutte contre le VIHISIDA et les IST (Draft), Ministere de la Sante; Juin 2000
Programme d 'Activites du Comite de Pilotage du Plan de lutte contre le VIHISIDA et les IST dans les
Ministeres charges du Developpement Rural, Ministere de la Sante, Ministere de l'Agriculture,
Ministere des Ressources Animales, Minist&re de l'Environnement et de l'Eau; Aofit 2000
Projet de Plan d 'Action Semestriel d 'Urgence du Secteur Defense pour la lutte contre le SIDA et les
infections sexuellement transmissibles, Ministere de la Defense; Septembre 2000 a Fevrier 2001
Rapport d'Analyse, Minist&e des Enseignements Secondaire Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique;
Aofit 2000
Rapport de Mission au Burkina Faso, OMS/AFRO; Juin 2000
Rapport de Surveillance epidemiologique des cas de SIDA ti l'OMS (situation au 31 decembre 1999),
Minist&re de la Sante; Aout 2000
Rapport sur les donnees de Serosurveillance site sentinelle et la notification des cas de SIDA et des
MSTau 31 decembre 1998, Ministere de la Sante; Mai 1999
Retro-Information SIDA IST au 30juin 2000, Ministere de la Sante; Juin 2000
U.S. Census Bureau Population Division, International Program Center, HIV/AIDS Surveillance Data
Base.
*Including electronic files
- 64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURKINA FASO: HIVWAIDS Disaster Response Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P035673       2001 COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT               0.00     66.70                           0.00     65.52      0.00      0.00
P050086       1999 PRIVATE IRRIGATION                              0.00      5.20                           0.00      3.73      1.66      0.00
P000296       1998 AG SERVICES 11                                  0.00     41.30                           0.00     26.76     17.19     1335
P000304       1997 POST-PRIMARY EDUC.                              0.00     26.00                           0.00     15.38     11.17      0.00
P000283       1997 MINING CAPACITY BUIL                            0.00     21.40                           0.00     14.69      9.18      0.00
P000297       1995 URBAN ENV                                       0.00     37.00                           0.00     12.27     14.76     14.83
P000287       1994 HEALTHiNUTRITION                                0.00     29.20                           0.00      2.55      2.77      2.51
P000308       1994 POPULATIONIAIDS CONT                            0.00     26.30                           0.00      3.84      4.32      0.00
Total:       0.00     253.10                          0.00     144.74     61.06     30.70
BURKINA FASO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1999                    AEF FasoMine                            1.00      0.38       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997                    Ecobank-Burkina                         0.00      0.25       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.25       0.00      0.00
1998                    SGBB                                    0.00       0.38      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.38       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                1.00       1.01      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.63       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approvai             Company                                    Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURKINA FASO: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Sub-
POVERTY end SOCIAL                                  Burkina   Saharan       Low-    r          -                           --
Faso     Africa   income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        11t0        642     2.417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas miothod/, USS)                    230        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billtions)                       2.6        321       9S3                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population I%)                                          2.4        2.6        1.9
Labor force (o%)                                        2.1        2 6        2.3     GNP                               Gross
per         <primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population f% of total population)                 18         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         44         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                104         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5J               33         32        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         -         43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     77         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    40         78        96                'Burkina Faso
Mate                                                   48         85       102                - - Low-income group
Female                                                 31        71         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
GOP (US$ billions)                            1'5       2.4        2.6       2.6     l
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                     28.6      27.2
Exports of goods and services/GOP              9.3     10.3       13.8       11.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    -3.1      7.1       12.4       10 1
Gross national savingslGDP                                        19.2       15.5
Current account batancelGOP                      ,        ,      -101       -12.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GOP                          0.3      0.7        0.2                      Ds                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                19.0     30.4       52.6      54 9      Savings             .4 
Total debt service/exports                     3.2      9.7       15.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                         32.0
Present value of debtlexports                                    175.2
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            3.8      8.2        5.2       683                    Burkina Faso
GNP per capita                                 0.9      3.4        2.3       3.4                    Low-income group
Exports of goods ano services        -2.1      1.5     10.5        5.6       5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%j
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   34.2     31.8       33.3      32.1      sx
Industry                                      22.8     23.9       27.2      27.4      30
Manufacturing                                 .,
Services                                      43.0     44.3       39.5      40.6       os                    s        9
Private consumption                           90.9     78.9       73.0      76.6    -30
General government consumption                12.2     14.0       14.7      13 3               -     GDI     - -GOP
Imports of goods and services                 30.9     24.9       30.0      28.6
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.6      3.4        5.5        6.2     3
Industry                                       4.1      3.2       10.9       5.0    15
Manufacturing                                2.3
Services                                       4.5      3.5        4.5       6.1
Private consumption                            2.9      3,2        6.8       4.7      s-9
General government consumption                 7.0      3.1        6.2       4.5
Gross domestic investment                        ,      4.8        0.9       8.6    -30
Imports of goods and services                  2.8      1.9        5.5       4.8            -     EEpors    -imports
Gross national product                                  3.8        6.3       5.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 66 -



Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           30
Consumer prices                                 ..    -0.3         1.0       2.3     20
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..      ..        3.1       1.6
Government finance                                                                           _
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                                          94   95   96    97    98    99
Current revenue                                 ..    10.0        14.4      16.1    -10
Current budget balance                                  -1.0       4.0       5.1               -GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          .        ..      -85      -10.9            -
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..       325      255      750
Cotton                                         .   . .           206       136
Meat                                           .        ..        46        48
Manufactures                                                      46        4
Total imports (cif)                             ..        ..      639       600
Food                                           ..       ..       143        74     2501
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..        72       102
Capital goods                                  ..       ..       196       221       o
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         98      101           93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..       104       105                 U Exports      a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=-100)                      ..       ..         95       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  174      244       364       292       °
Imports of goods and services                 491       587       803       760
Resource balance                              -316     -343       -439     -467
Net income                                       ..      ..       -12       -13
Net current transfers                           83      140        190      155'1
Current account balance                          ..      ..      -261      -326        -|
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       227       310
Changes in net reserves                         ..        .         33       15    i5
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..    266         373       407
Conversion rate (DEC, focallUS$)             212.7    319.0      589.7    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           295      717      1,358     1,452
IBRD                                          0         0                   0                      G:59
IDA                                          65      255        710       753               E:130
Total debt service                               9       39         74
IBRD                                          0         0
IDA                                           0         3        10        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                        Da347                       B:710
Official grants                              137      116       214
Official creditors                           49        79
Private creditors                            13         3
Foreign direct investment                     2         0         0
Portfolio equity                              °         °         °                          c. 112
World Bank program
Commitments                                   14       63        15        30      A-IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 19       25        58        63      B - IDA    D- Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        1        11         6      C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                    19        24        47        57
Interest payments                             0         2         5         5
Net transfers                                19        22        42        52
Development Economics                                                                                                  #######
- 67 -



Additional
Annex 11
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.     Given the rapidly evolving nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, a strong and flexible monitoring and
evaluation (M & E) system would be critical to the development of an effective program. The goal would
be to design and implement a system, which would be able to monitor not only progress in implementing
this operation but also the national response to the epidemic. The various components of this system are
depicted below:
it woud be eneraly dificultto mesure cangesin HI prevlene ats.Th  mi foctus  wudthsb
_                      I
___
2.  What ype of idicator would be moiord  With  the for-ea time hoo ofti\       prto
on output, process and outcome measures, as follows:
   Output indicators to measure changes in knowledge of HIV/AIDS and increases in a range of services
and activities (prevention, care and treatment).
*   Process indicators to get a handle on the level of efficiency in the implementation of HIV/AIDS plans
and sub-projects.
*   Outcome measures to assess effectiveness of preventive interventions would focus on changes in sexual
behavior and increases in condom utilization that would ultimately lead to a reduction in HIVf infection
rates. Outcome measures to assess effectiveness of care and mitigation would measure changes in
reported discrimination and stigmatization.
3.     What type of studies and surveys would be carried out? A numiber of key studies/surveys would
- 68 -



be undertaken during project preparation, some of which would be financed through a Japanese PHRD
grant. These would be critical for establishing a solid baseline for monitoring results, and for providing
feedback on which strategies work and which ones need adjustment. A large part of the data for the
monitoring and evaluation system would come from the next Demographic and Health Survey, periodic
Behavioral Surveillance Surveys and MOH records. These sources of data are collected in a regular
fashion, enabling comparisons over time. Box 7 provides further details on the scope of work for these
studies.
4.    This data would be complemented with qualitative research such as Beneficiary Assessments,
Focus Group discussions and other participatory approaches. UNAIDS would play a key role in
supporting communities to apply participatory methodologies to assess institutional aspects of
implementation. This would enhance local ownership and accountability.
5.    Process indicators would be monitored through: (i) quarterly technical and financial progress
reports submitted by organizations participating in the implementation of the project; and (ii) annual
reviews that would be organized by the SP-CNLS.
6.    How would technical andfinancial monitoring be carried out? A management information
system (MIS) would be put in place at the central level during project start up, to monitor both the
technical and financial aspects of project implementation. The MIS would be based on quarterly project
reports to be submitted by all implementing organizations. It would monitor aspects such as:
3  Expenditures by level (i.e. by national, provincial and community levels)
3  Number of beneficiaries reached by level
*   Number of projects financed
3  Types of activities funded
*   Time lapses between submission and approval of plans and between approval and
funding/disbursement at each level
7.     Who would be responsiblefor monitoring and evaluation? All implementing agencies (national,
provincial, community) would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of their respective plans and
sub-projects. The SP-CNLS would have the overall responsibility for monitoring and supervising activities
of national, provincial and NGO authorities. A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established
within the SP-CNLS. This unit would coordinate and work together with the National Institute of Statistics
and Demography, the Ministry of Health, UN organizations and universities. The unit would sub-contract
surveys to national and intemational organizations with expertise in these areas, and build in the contracts
the need for capacity building. At the provincial level, the HIV/AIDS technical committee would be
responsible for supervising and monitoring activities funded at this level as well as consolidating
information from their respective communities. Technical and financial reports would be prepared by the
provinces on a quarterly basis. Stakeholders would be encouraged to carry out periodic self assessments.
Communities would focus mainly on monitoring simple process indicators (Annex 1) and would be
encouraged to carry out participatory assessments to measure the impact on beneficiaries and the
involvement of PLWHA. Communities would be requested to fill out simple quarterly reports to be
submitted to the provincial level.
8.    How would the information be used to improve program performance? The Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of the SP-CNLS would be responsible for disseminating information to relevant
stakeholders. This unit would decide how best to present results of surveys and studies to different
audiences (e.g. policy makers, implementing agencies, civil society). Information would need to be
- 69 -



packaged differently depending on the goals to be attained (e.g. advocacy, behavior modification, program
performance).
9.     What would be the key elements of the knowledge management strategy? Given the experimental
and innovative aspects of the proposed operation, knowledge management would be critical to the leaming
process. Hence, setting up learning and feedback mechanisms would be essential to enhancing the
possibility of adaptation and improvement of the project along the way. Knowledge management activities
would have two key dimensions. First, within Burkina, the emphasis would be on establishing and
promoting a learning environment among all stakeholders involved in the fight against the epidemic. The
SP-CNLS would also organize annual reviews to analyze technical and operational issues that emerge
during previous year, in order to incorporate lessons learned into the planning process for the subsequent
year. Workshops would also be organized on a periodic basis, inviting those involved in carrying out work
programs to share their achievements, problems and solutions. Journalists would participate in these
workshops, in order to facilitate dissemination of lessons leamed and to continue the process of sensitizing
political and religious leaders. Finally, the project would provide funds to develop and publish a Best
Practices Book, documenting these experiences. Second, Burkina's participation in the MAP would
facilitate South-South collaboration, enabling exchange of experiences and knowledge with other
developing countries in the region facing similar challenges.
10.   What is the evaluation process that is being used? The process of effectiveness evaluation that is
being used involves the following key steps:
Selecting appropriate indicators that correspond to program goals and objectives.
Setting targets for changes that are expected as a result of the proposed interventions.
Determining best methods for data collection and analysis.
Assessing national capabilities in monitoring and evaluation.
Carrying out a stakeholder workshop to develop a detailed monitoring and evaluation plan, including
roles, responsibilities, and time lines.
11.   While the Bank has taken a lead in assisting the government team with the development of the
monitoring and evaluation system, the proposed indicators and targets were discussed and agreed upon
during appraisal. The Bank will continue working in close collaboration with UNAIDS and the
MEASURE/Evaluation Project to identify priority areas for financing in support of the national monitoring
and evaluation plan.
- 70 -



Box 7: Key Studies & Surveys Included in Project
Baseline Analysis: epidemiological and intervention data would be assembled and analyzed to establish a baseline
for the operation. To this end, a national profile of risk behavior for 1994-99 would be constructed and compared
to a national profile of interventions for the same years. This would assist in analyzing the degree to which
interventions have been directed to geographic regions with high STD and HIV incidence rates. The baseline
analysis would provide a solid basis for prioritizing and phasing in the provinces.
Mapping High Transmission Areas: a methodology for mapping high transmission areas would be designed and
pilot tested in an effort to replicate this on a larger scale during the life of the project. The methodology would
assist stakeholders to better target interventions. The goal would be to replicate this methodology nationwide.
HIIVIAIDS Behavioral Surveillance Survey (BSS): a BSS based on an internationally recognized methodology
would be designed and carried out in an effort to better monitor and assess program impact amnong target groups.
The population groups to be considered for inclusion are: youth, sex workers, highly mobile workers, teachers, and
civil servants, The specific population groups remain to be agreed upon with the govemment. In the case of
Burkina particular attention needs to be given to understanding how some groups act as a conduit between those
with high risk and the wider population. The survey would be carnied out prior to loan effectiveness and
subsequently on a periodic basis (i.e. every two years) during the life of the project. The BSS would be done in the
same locations used for the scro-surveillance sites, which are characterized by the presence of mobile populations,
higher prevalence rates, and sex worker populations. The protocol to be used follows a similar model to be
employed for Cameroon, Togo, and Cote d'lvoire, which would facilitate cross-country comparisons.
Beneficiary Assessment: a beneficiary assessment would be conducted in an effort to get a better understanding of
how to change individual behavior. This qualitative research tool would be used to systematically listen to a
representative sample of the most vulnerable individuals (e.g. youth; men in uniform: military and police;
commercial sex workers; men working in mines, sugar and cotton, and as truck drivers, infected persons: and
health personnel.). The thernes to be covered include: knowledge of the diseasc and of means to prevent infection,
perceived risks attached to particular behaviors, problems associated with infcction, and suggestions for ways to
better reach vulnerable groups without stigmatizing them.
Demographic and Health Survet: the project would provide financing, as necessary, for the execution of the
2004/05 DHS, which would provide a comprehensive set of data for monitoring, iater Alia. changes in reported
knowledge of HIV/AIDS, sexual behavior, condom utilization, and STD incidence rates.
Assessment of STD Treatment a rapid assessment methodology for assessing the quality and effectiveness of STD
treatment at a satmple of heafth facilities would be carried out periodically during the life of the project.
AIDS Orphans Study: a review of the situation of AIDS orphans would be carried out to get a better understanding
of their circumstances and needs, and to identify promising programs that could be scaled up. To this end, it will
be important to have a better understanding of how the structure and composition of households may be changing
with regard to care of orphans and of how the epidemic may be affecting differently male and female children.
Program Review of Activities Targeted to Migrant Workers: this study would assess current efforts to protect
migrants at frontier transit points around Burkina with a view to scaling up these interventions.
- 71 -



Additional
Annex 12
Key Implementation Steps
ACTIVITY/TIMING                    T       RESPONSIBLE    F             REMARKS
W MO : EIE iRJtNG APPRAISAL nMAA  wAn1L 2001)
1.1           Agrce on the financial management set up                     WB/                   Preliminary discussion of
Govemment            financial management
arrangements carried out during
appraisal mission.
1.2           Agree on the institutional set up for project management and  WB/                  Preliminary discussion of
implementation                                               Govetnment            institutional arrangements
carried out during appraisal
mission.
1.3           Agree on the capacity needed for project implementation in the  WB/                 Capacity assessments carried
various organizations at all levels                          Govemment             out during appraisal mission.
1.4           Agree on where the Project management unit should be located  WB/                   Tentative discussions on
Government            location of PMU carried out
.__________                                                          during appraisal.
1.5           Agree on how the Bank can assist in strengthening the SP--NLS  WB/                 Completed during appraisal.
and what areas need strengthening                            Govemment
1.6           Agree on the roles and rcsponsibilities for all organizations at all    WB/         Tentative discussions carried out
levels                                                       Govemment             during appraisal.
1.7           Agree on the flow of funds                                   WB/                   Agreement reached during
Government            appraisal mission.
1.8           Agree on the monitoring and evaluation indicators            WB/                   Monitoring and evaluation
Govemment             indicators discussed and agreed
upon during the appraisal
mission.
1.9           Identify firms/consultants for key preparatory studies (e.g.  PPLSIWB              Ideniificaiion of
beneficiary ass ssment, baseline, behavioTal surveillance survey,                 firmslconsultants initiated
mapping of high transmission areas, AIDS orphan study, program                    following approval of PHRD
review of activities targeting migrant workers) and initiate                       grant.
____ ____ ____ ___ activities                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
BEF£)RE NEGOTITIONS (ii 'I ii 2001) : 
2.i           Define TOR for the national review committee                  SP-CNLSIWB            Draft TORs prepared
2.2           Agree on ore .uizational set-up and vision of the SP-CNLS     Govemment             Government reached consensus
on institutional set upfor
.___________      national program.
2.3           Define criteria for selection of NGOs and Associations        Government/WE         Draft criteria under
preparation.
2.4           Issue Financial Assessment of PMU, Action plan and LACI       WB                    Completed in April 2001.
certificate
2.5            Finalize the implementation manual and the monitoring tools  SP-CNLS/              A consultant would be recruited
PPLS                  to assist in this process;
consultancy to be funded
_ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _    through PHRD grant
- 72 -



BEFORE LOAw EFrCTIVENESS (l EPTEMBER 200i I
3A1          Recruit identified additional HR at the SP-SP-CNLS           Government
3.2          Re-organize the SP-CNLS                                      Government
3.3          Set up a Proiect Management Unit for the operation           Government
3.4          Recruit/reassign competent staff for the Project Management  Government
______ _____ U nit                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3.5          Submit to the Bank proposals on appointees for the National  SP-SP-CNLS
Review panel
3.6           Put the National Review Committee in place                  SP-CNLS
3.7          Project launch workshops with NGOs and associations          SP-SP-CNLS            ___
3.8          Proiect launch workshops with line ministries                SP-CNLS
3.9           Prepare and agree upon annual budgets for the ministries    SP-SP-CNLS            ____
3.10          Recruit contractual financial Manager for all line Ministries  PMU/WB
(DAF)
3.11          Select project external audits a   _                        PMU/WB
3.12         Set up Special Accounts                                      Government
3.13         Finalize/disseminate study results (see 1.2 above)           WB/PPLS
3.14         Sign credit agreement                                        Government/WB         _
________            FlRST 8iX MONTI11% AFTER LOAN &FFECTIVENES EOCTOPER 20*8 - M iRCH 20021
4.1          Carry out capacity building for SP-CNLS                      SP-SP-CNLS/PMU
4.2          Set up a MIS in the SP-CNLS                                  PMU/SP-CNLS            A TA will be recruited to assist
in this process
4.3          Provide assistance to the line ministries to prepare and     SP-CNLS                A series of workshops/seminars
implement their work programs                                                      will be organized
4.4           Submit line ministry work programs for approval to the SP-  Participating          SP-CNVLS may suggest changes
CNLS                                                        Ministries / SP-      for improvement in which case
CNLS                  the ministries and provinces
would need to resubmit their
plans
4.5          Allocate the first budget allocations to ministries with approved    PMU            Funding will be allocated
work programs                                                                      directlyfrom the PMU
4.6          Evaluate the experiences from Gaoua and draw lessons         PMU/SP-CNLS            The lessons learnedfrom the
Gaoua pilot will be used to
improve the design ofthe
community sub-projects
4.7          Carry out capacity building and training of trainers to prepare  SP-CNLS/PMU        Allprovinces will receive
work programs and sub-projects for all provinces                                   training and will then be
expected to train their
communities. It is however not
envisioned that all communities
will be ready to prepare
community sub-projects in the
_frst round
4,8          Submit sub-projects for approval to the provincial HIV/AIDS  CTVLS and CTPLS    First round offunding likely to
committees                                                                         start in JanuarY 2002
4.9          Carry out self-assessment(s) on selective basis to test instrument   Participating line
and methodology                                             ministries, provinces,
communities and
NGOs
4.10         Call for proposals under component C                         SP-CNLS/Technical
Review Committee
4.11          Submit HIV/AIDS proposals for approval                      NGOs and
Associations
4.12         Assess and approve NGO and Association proposals             SP-CNLS/National       The review panel will assess
review panel          proposals according to pre-
(Provincial           defined criteria. Provinces will
HIV/AIDS              sign the contracts with the
committees for        communities and the CTDLS
community plans)      will assist the communities in
_________________preparing micro-projects
4.13         Allocate first tranche to 'winning" NGOs and associations    PMU                  l
(component C)
4.14         Pilot results based agreements                               PMU
- 73 -



Additional
Annex 13
Contracting of NGOs
I.    Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would be contracted under the project for the targeted
interventions component and would also be used possibly for select sub-contracting of activities under the
national and provincial components. The NGO sector in Burkina is large and diverse. The growth in this
sector has been spurred by the need to address specific problems (e.g. famine, AIDS). The average
organization has been in existence between 5 and 10 years with the majority working in urban and
peri-urban areas. Over 80 percent of these organizations operate on a non-profit basis. In the context of the
Population and AIDS Control Project funding has been provided to about 280 NGOs/associations in
addition to two NGO umbrella organizations which have in turn worked with smaller, less experienced
groups. The majority of these activities were preventive in nature with a handful addressing treatment and
care issues. Activities funded included promotion of HIV/AIDS/STDs and family planning interventions,
and prevention of female circumcision.
2.    Experience with contracting of NGOs has highlighted the following strengths of these
organizations: (i) intimate knowledge of local communities; and (ii) flexible, participatory, and
multi-sectoral approaches. A recent evaluation of the experience under the IDA project found a discernible
improvement in capacities of these organizations. The main weaknesses included: (a) limited capabilities in
financial management; (b) relatively small scale operations with limited experience in monitoring and
evaluation; and (c) high dependence on donor financing. Building on this experience, the proposed
contracting process is described below. The operational manual, which is under preparation, would
provide details of the procedures and guidelines to be used.
3.    Selection, Contracting and Monitoring of Proposals The contracting of NGOs and associations
builds, expands and refines on the experience in Burkina under the Norwegian grant accompanying the IDA
credit for the Population and AIDS Control Project and on the successful Brazilian AIDS program which
relies extensively on NGOs (see Box 9). Historically, contracts with NGOs and associations under the
IDA operation were input based and reimbursements occurred based on statement of expenses for different
activities. Following the recent extension of this project the Development Credit Agreement has been
modified to allow for a shift away from funding inputs to financing of work programs, in an effort to foster
greater accountability. The current goal is to emphasize deliverables and outputs and to incorporate
explicit criteria for the groups to be targeted.
4.    The judicious selection of proposals would be critical to success. The SP-CNLS would initiate a
Request for Proposals with the support of the Project Management Unit. NGOs and associations would
submit proposals for funding targeted interventions, which would be selected on a competitive basis. There
would be quarterly competitive funding cycles or more frequent ones, as deemed necessary. Organizations
would submit one technical and one financial proposal along with information about their organization.
The selection of proposals would be done based on the types of criteria outlined in Box 8. A review panel
comprising of representatives of key ministries (e.g. health, finance, education) umbrella NGOs (NGO
Coordinating Bureau), and civil society, including PLWHA, would be responsible for reviewing and
approving the proposals. Other experts would be included in the process, as needed. After reviewing the
technical proposals and evaluating the total number of points for each proposal, the financial proposals
would be opened and assessed.
74 -



Box 8 : Criteria for Selection of Proposals
Quality ofproposal and appropriateness of methodology (50)
* Epidemiological impact (e.g. potential to reach vulnerable groups and/or high
transmission areas)
*  Technical quality (e.g. extent to which it addresses objectives of national HI V/A IDS
program, quality of proposed activities, proposed links to local health system, adequacy of
capacity building and knowledge transfer activities, extent to which participation is
encouraged. particularlyof PL WHA)
Experience and proven track record in undertaking similar interventions (20)
Qualifiations and competence ofproposed staff (li)
Organizational and managerial capacities (I S)
Appropriate legal status; recognized by NGO Coordinating Office
*  Adminiastrtive,financial and managerial capacities
Capacity to mobilize additional resources
* Extent to which partnerships are being established
TOTAL: 100 points
S.     A contract would be signed between the SP-CNLS and the respective NGO/association, using a
standard Bank contract appropriate for the size and scope of the proposed work plan. The Project
Management Unit would be responsible for financial monitoring of the NGO contracts and would work
with the SP-CNLS on the technical monitoring. The organization would receive up to one third of the
funds at contract signing. Subsequent payments would be made based on submission of satisfactory
financial and technical reports. The organization's project proposal would become an integral part of the
contract, stipulating deliverables and expected outputs. Given that many of these organizations do not have
the capacities and resources to monitor outcomes, every effort would be made to ensure coordination
between the targeted interventions to be funded and the target groups to be monitored as part of the
Behavioral Surveillance Survey to be carried out. This implies that these organizations would be
responsible for program monitoring (focusing on process and output indicators) while relying on data from
population-based surveys and beneficiary assessments to provide insights into the impact of their
interventions on behavioral change, discrimination, stigma, and survival. In addition to being accountable
for collecting and monitoring basic process and output indicators, these organizations would also carry out
self-assessments, which would assist in building ownership of the monitoring process and enhancing
results.
6.     Additional work is underway to develop creative ways of involving associations of PLWHA, which
have relatively limited capabilities but tremendous potential to legitimize the role of civil society and to
lobby for change. One option being considered is to use the same criteria noted above but a different
weighting system, which places greater emphasis on the quality of the proposals rather than on the
capacities and experiences of these relatively young but dynamic organizations. Another key lesson from
the PPLS experience which is being expanded relates to the need to work through umbrella NGO
organizations, in an effort to encourage small but dynamic associations to participate in the fight against
AIDS and to build up core expertise in working with priority groups.
- 75 -



7.     Another topic under discussion is the possibility of piloting performance-based reimbursement
contracts, which have been used effectively in similar contexts (e.g. Haiti, Kenya; Eicher R., et al.,
Performance Based Reimbursement to Improve Impact: Evidence from Haiti, Management Sciences for
Health, January 2001). These types of reimbursement mechanisms would establish clear indicators of
performance that are relevant to the attainment of national goals and provide financial incentives to these
organizations to achieve the defined targets. The goal would be to reward good performance based on
easily monitored and attainable indicators (e.g. increase in condom utilization among core transmitters,
increase in core transmitters receiving STI treatment). This scheme would initially be piloted with only a
handful of organizations that show an interest to participate. Depending on the success of the scheme, it
would be replicated on a larger scale during subsequent years.
Box 9: ConT    NGOs for HIVA IDS in Brazil:
XKe Achievements & Lessons Learned
The NGOs involved ini te implementation of HIV/AIDS activities in Brazit have been instrumental to the
success of the government's program. The exerinence with contracting of NGOs under two World Bank loans to
Brazil has been evluated to drawlessons which; might be of relevance to other countries which are aiming to
expandpublic/privatepartnerships,such as  ra. ThisWbox provides a summary of the main conclusions and
recommendations of this reent evautiton.
The first Bank loan (1994-98) disbursed about USSI 8.6 million to 174 NGOs to implement 444 project
contracts. Under the second loan (1998-2002), over US$7 million have disbursed to about 240 NGOs covering
roughly 350 project contracts.
An NGO Liason Unit, establihed in the Nal Coordination of STD/A DS, managed all aspects of the
contracting process. Te rmaini fatures included: (i) competiiveprocess according to well established criteria; (ii)
standardized contracts with peformance standards; (ii) sieprectproposal frms, with a fill-in-the-blank
format which facilitatd standa ton  Of information submitted and expedited the review process; and (iv)
monitoring and evaluation through NGO reporting (financial documenits and quarterly progress reports).
To determine objectives and priornties of each request for proposals an analysis of the epidemiological
situation and a rcview of ongoinprograms was fir carried out. The proposals were reviewed by an External
Selectionc om"niffee- composed of a distingished group of academics researchers, and foundation members.
The number of NGOs active in HIlV/AIDS programs has grown from less than 20 during the 1 980s to
more than 500 today. Almost all NGOs surveyed reported an improvement in their capacities. Nevertheless.
concerns were raised about the complxtes of the contrcing process, inadequate institutional building, and
difficuities in imeasurig impact.
Other key issues which stemmed from the evaluation relate to the need to: (a) get a better handle on the
total cost 0/     provi&dd by NGOs and to introduce incentives for cost-efficiency; (b) introduce efforts to
measure and improve the quality of NGO services; (c) incorporate information from beneficiaries into NGO
contracting to monitor client satisfaction; (d) minimize the transaciTon costs; and (c) develop transparent
procedures for contracting NGOs.
Source: Connor, C., Contracting Non-Governmental Organizations for HI ViA IDS: Brazil Case Study, Abt
Associates Inc., March 2000.
- 76 -



Additional
Annex 14
Epidemiological Situation
Background
1.    There are currently over 34 million people living with the HIV virus throughout the world, out of
whom 24 million live in Subsaharan Africa. Burkina Faso is deeply struck by the AIDS epidemic as it
ranks among the first three countries most affected in West-Africa. The HIV prevalence rate was estimated
at 7.17% in 1997 (WHO/UNAIDS source). Burkina recorded about ten AIDS cases in 1986. The
cumulative number of 'recorded' cases rose to 16,823 by June 30, 2000. From 1997 to June 30, 2000,
7,687 new cases were registered (i.e. an average of 1,921 cases per year).
2.    In Burkina Faso, AIDS is no longer viewed exclusively as a medical issue. There is broad based
recognition that the epidemic poses major obstacles to development. The main priorities identified by the
government are: (i) prevention of transmission of HIV and of Sexually Transmittable Infections (STIs); (ii)
epidemiological monitoring; (iii) medical and psycho-social support of infected and affected people; and
(iv) organizational and institutional capacities. The key elements of the government's strategy are:
integration, decentralization and a multi-sectoral approach.
3 .    Epidemiological Monitoring The epidemiological monitoring system of HIV/AIDS and STIs is
both integrated and decentralized. Close collaboration exists between SP-CNLS and the Directorate for
Preventive Medicine as well as with the hospital and health regions. Data on HIV/AIDS in Burkina Faso
are based on three major sources of information: (a) routine notification; (b) sentinel surveillance; and (c)
periodic surveys. In addition, there are data estimates issued by WHO/UNAIDS. In addition to funding
from the Global AIDS Program, over 60% of the activities of the Permanent Secretariat of the National
Committee to Fight AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (SP-CNLS) have been financed under the
Population and AIDS Control Project (PPLS). From 1997 to the end of 1999, SP-CNLS benefited from
technical assistance of CCISD under PPLS financing in the area of epidemiological monitoring.
4.     During the workshop on the integrated system of the epidemiological monitoring of the
HIV/AIDS/STIs (August 11-14, 1997), instruments of notification regarding HIV/AIDS cases were
elaborated (individual notification cards for AIDS cases, monthly report cards for health districts, quarterly
reports card for the services of the National and Regional Hospital Centers as well as health regions). The
monitoring of HIV/AIDS is performed by a network of sentinel sites through prenatal visits; an improved
protocol was written to this effect with precise objectives, specifications on sampling, laboratory
procedures and information channels. The monitoring system started with three sentinel sites (in 1997),
and was followed by five sites starting in 1998. Those five sites are based at the level of regional level.
Some 35 health agents were trained in 1998 in Koudougou on the integrated monitoring protocol, including
serosurveillance (biological monitoring of the human immunodeficiency virus) through PPLS financing.
- 77 -



5.     STIs The strategy adopted by SP-CNLS for STI screening and treatment was the syndromic
approach. Only since 1998 have algorithms for STI treatment been adapted to local conditions. The
training of trainers was completed and the coverage of STI patients was extended nationwide. In 1996 and
1997, the Canadian-funded SIDA II Project found that the correct treatment of STIs was very low in the
areas surveyed. Results revealed that IP6 was at 0% and IP7 was only 3%. A second survey was done in
the health districts of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. This survey also found low correct treatment of
STI patients (table I below). In collaboration with the STI Unit of the European Union, the Muraz Center
perfonmed in 1999 an evaluation of the validity, feasibility and cost of algorithms used in the Bobo
Dioulasso health region.
Table No. 1: Percentage of 1997 - 1998 Prevention Indicators
Indicators               % in 1997 SIDA II Project    % in 1997      %in 1998
IP6                      0%                        3.6%              20%
IP7                      3%                        8.4%              44%
6.    The table below provide data on HIV infection rates among pregnant women from sentinel
serosurveillance sites. The data highlight:
* A high rate of HIV prevalence (8.96%) in 1998 in the blood testing center of the Bobo-Dioulasso sentinel
site.
A low rate of HIV prevalence (3.78%) in 1999 at the Tenkodogo sentinel site.
An increase in the HIV prevalence rate at the Gaoua sentinel site, from 4 to 6,04% which was no
statistically meaningful.
A significant drop of HIV prevalence rate (8.96% to 4.6%) at the blood testing center of Hamdallaye
(Bobo-Dioulasso sentinel site); however, one or two more years will be needed to assess the accuracy of
this trend.
High prevalence rates in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso (see table below).
* A stabilization in HIV prevalence rates, between 6% and 7%, at the Ouahigouya sentinel site.
* An insignificant incease in the prevalence rate (6.74% to 8.39%) at the Kossodo blood testing Center
(Ouagoudougou sentinel site).
An HIV prevalence rate ranging from 7.46% to 7.7% at the St. Camille blood testing Center
(Ouagadougou sentinel site) which regularly provides significant samples.
Table 2
1997                        1998                      1999
SITE            Number Number  %            Number        %           Number    % % =
= tested level                                                   Proportion of
positive tests
Ouagadougou:
Kossodo       267              6.74%       436          8.25%       286         8.39%
St Camille                    ---          403          7.7%        724         7.46%
Bobo-Dioulasso:
Sarfalao      448              7.58%       285          7.71%       307         7.2%
Hamdallaye                     ---         357          8.96%       408         4.4%
Ouahigouya      170             6.47%       286           7%          283        6%
Tenkodogo      ---              ---         279           4.3%        370        3.78%
Gaoua           ---             ---         250          4%           298        6.04%
- 78 -



7.    The table below shows the existence of HIV 1, HIV 2 and of HIV 1+2 among the tested samples
(between 1997 and 1999), with a high proportion of HIV 1 (from 79% to 88.5%) compared with HIV 2
(3.6% to 8%) and to HIV 1 and 2 (4.2 to 12.7%).
Table 3: Proportional HIV Percentage by Year
1997                 1998           1999
Number of cases      % proport.     Number of cases
VIHl        50                   79,3            144
VIH2        5                    8               8
VIHI+2      8                    12,7            11
Total VIH+   63                                  163
8.    The activity of serosurveillance was well performed in 2000 and serums were stocked while
awaiting reagents to be analyzed. A workshop on second generation epidemiological monitoring as well as
a follow-up/evaluation of the National Program to Fight AIDS and STs took place in Bobo-Dioulasso,
November 7-9, 2000. The behavioral monitoring together with the biological monitoring will allow for a
better explanation of the evolution of the AIDS pandemic in Burkina Faso and will enable the adjustment of
strategies in the fight against AIDS.
9.     Statistics on blood transfusion safety are not systematically transmitted to DMP or to SP-CNLS.
Table No. 4: HIV Prevalence Among Ouagadougou Blood Donors in 1993 and 1999
Year                        Number of Tests                    % Of HIV Positive
1993                               200                                       1 1
1999                              7071                                        5
Estimated data:
Persons living with HIV: 500 000 (WHO/UNAIDS source).
lNunber of AIDS cases in Burkina Faso at the end of 1997: 40 000.
Number of orphans from 1986 to 1997: 200 000 (WHO/UNAIDS source).
Number of new HIV infections per year: 33,636 (i.e. about 2,803 new infections every month or a
hundred of new infections each day).
Number of new patients per year: 1,200 but according to WHO/UNAIDS, this number would reach 3,640
per year.
* Average number of infected pregnant women per year: 8,430.
Summary of data collected following recent surveys:
Prisoners:
HIV prevalence = 9.1% at the prison and at the correctional institution in Ouagadougou
HIV prevalence = 11.4% at the prison and at the correctional institution in Bobo-Dioulasso
Among TB patients:
HIV prevalence = 34% in Ouagadougou in 1994
Among Sex Professionals:
HIV prevalence = 57.7% to 59.2% in 1994
- 79 -



Among Blood Donors in Ouagadougou:
HIV Prevalence = 5% in 1999
10.    According to an analysis of the situation, the factors contributing to the spread of the HIV virus
are as follows: (i) number of sexual acts; (ii) sexual relations performed without condoms; (iii) highly
mobile population; (iv) high vulnerability of women; (v) traditional practices, such as levirat (i.e. tradition
that a brother of a deceased man has to marry his childless widow), female circumcision and tattooing or
scarification.
11.   In the short, medium and long-term, companies may face the following devastating effects of
AIDS: (a) a drop in productivity leading to a reduction in economic growth, particularly as AIDS tends to
hit adults in their most productive years; and (b) an increase in expenditures related to illness. At the social
level AIDS will lead to: (i) an increase in number of widows, widowers, orphans; according to
WHO/UJNAIDS, over 95% of the 8.2 million AIDS-orphaned children live in the area of Sub saharan
Africa. Burkina Faso is believed to have close to 200 000 orphans with an annual increase of some 30 000
to 35 000; (ii) an exacerbation of the social burden of these orphans on remaining household members and
on society; (iii) families being tom apart as a result of AIDS (conflicts, separations, divorces, mistrust). At
the level of health facilities, one can note the following: (a) high cost of medical expenses; (b) increase in
the amount of work performed by health personnel (numerous visits for various symptoms linked to
AIDS); (iii) exposure to the risk of accidental injuries, implying a need for strict measures regarding
hospital hygiene; and (iv) potential increase of stress among personnel.
12.    Regarding the notification of HIV and STI cases, we note: (a) under-notification; (ii) weak rate of
turnaround; and (iii) insufficiencies in reporting system, especially the non-respect for age ranges and the
lack of precision regarding contamination methods. Most AIDS related cases remain practically
non-reported by the majority of the health regions. The very weak rate of turnaround (18%) to channel
reports explains the enormous delays encountered in disseminating feedback information. Although the
channel of health information was defined and validated during the 11-14 August 1997 workshop on the
integrated system of HIV/AIDS epidemiological monitoring as well as of sexually transmitted infections, it
remains absolutely vitd± to continue to sensitize all actors involved, in particular the physicians in charge of
the fight against the disease and the persons in charge of the Centers for Health Information and
Epidemiological Monitoring, and this is done under the overall coordination of the Health Regional
Directors: (a) the implementation of integrated monitoring is not yet effective; (b) the monitoring of training
is not effective; (c) the notification of STI under syndromic form is not effective in all health districts of
Burkina Faso; (d) the supports of syndromic notification are under-utilized despite their wide
dissemination; (e) the notification according to the syndromic approach is mostly limited to the Bobo
Dioulasso and Ouagadougou regions (areas covered by the "STI Unit", the former project of the European
Union).
13.   In relation with the site sentinel sero-surveillance:
*   The health personnel involved in sero-surveillance is not adequately trained because of high
turnover.
*   The material used to collect blood tubes in the blood testing centers is not always appropriate for
transmission to the laboratories.
*   Supervision of agents at sentinel sites by regional officials is irregular.
*   All sites are not able to perform serology on the spot because of non-repaired machines (Gaoua,
Tenkodogo++).
- 80 -



*   Because of the anonymity and of the principle of non-correlation, only age and a number are
written on the tubes, which, of course, limits the use and the analysis of data (production of
global numbers).
*   The procedures to order reagents are lengthy, complex and do not allow for the timely
availability of reagents in the laboratories.
Future Perspectives
14.    With regard to monitoring of AIDS and STIs, there is a need for: (a) improved collaboration with
the Directors of CHN, CHR and with Regional Health Directors regarding the management of data related
to HIVIAIDS and STI monitoring; and (b) harmonizing the data inputs between DEP, DMP and
SP-CNLS.
15.    With respect to HIV monitoring at sentinel sites it will be necessary to strengthen biological
monitoring and to initiate behavioral monitoring (second generation epidemiological monitoring). It is also
necessary to train health agents in monitoring. The implementation of the second generation monitoring
together with the sero-surveillance with behavioral monitoring allows for a hope that the AIDS pandemic
can be brought under control with future improved strategies. A survey of HIV sero-prevalence in the
general population is also necessary, if not indispensable.
Conclusion:
16.    Right now, Burkina Faso faces a general AIDS epidemic: The HIV prevalence is estimated at
7.17% in the general population and ranges between 3.8%and 8.4% in pregnant women. The major
determinants for the spread of the virus are known. The epidemiological monitoring of this plague will
have to be pursued. There has been a renewed interest for activities related to HIV/AIDS/STIs
epidemiological monitoring since 1997, thanks to PPLS financial support and to the assistance of the
Directorate for Preventive Medicine, as well as through the support given by various development partners
and health authorities (Regional Health Directorates, National Hospitals and Regions, etc.). In order for
the AIDS epidemic to be brought under control, epidemiological and behavioral studies (second generation
epidemiological monitoring) must be given priority. In the context of the intemational partnership, efforts
still need to be made to support the fight against HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections in
Burkina Faso. Such is the major challenge which all actors and partners in the fight against AIDS have to
undertake in order really get this pandemic under control.
References:
*   Bulletin de retro information n°4 du SP-CNLS/Ministere de la Sante.
*   Lankoande S, Meda N. , SANGARE L. et al ;Prevalence and risk of HIV infection among female sex workers in Burkina
Faso. Int STD AIDS 1998.
*   ONUSIDA/OMS: Epidemiological fact sheet.
o   Cadre strategique du Plan National Multisectoriel 2001- 2005
Note: This annex is a translation of a document prepared by Dr. Bazie, Epidemiological Director, SP-CNLS.
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 15
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Roles and responsibilities of Key Stakeholders
Stakeholder               Roles & Responsibilities                 Organization       I    Funding
____________                     ~~~~~~National Level
SP-CNLS    | 0 Elaborate national HIV/AIDS/STI strategies   Human resources,          Work program
0 Coordinate all HIV/AIDS activities in the    financial and physical   agreements
country                                      resources need to be       between SP-CNLS
* Assist line ministries to elaborate and    strengthened, especially in   & CNLS will,
monitor their work programs and approve      the areas of M&E,         include operating
them                                         planning and               budgetfor day to
* Provide technical support to provinces to  programming, evaluating    day activities
facilitate decentralization of national program    proposals
* Organize training and capacity building
activities
a Monitor and evaluate progress at all levels,
analyze results and disseminate the findings to
key partners
P  Elaborate norms and protocols
Program       Financial:                                    Financial:                Operating budget
management  0 Handle financial management of the project   1 principal accountant
unit (PMU)    and channeling funds                         2 assistant accountant
* Arrange for audits                         1 procurement specialist
Technical:                                   (contractual staff)
* Assure technical quality of project by
working in close collaboration with SP-CNLS  Technical:
* Ensure monitoring of project activities    -Planning & programming
l                                             -NGOs/associations
-Monitoring & evaluation
Technical     * Evaluate and select proposals from NGOs    Representatives from SP-   Financial support
committee     and Associations, based on specified selection  CNLS, civil society,    for organization
criteria                                     PLWHA, umbrella NGOs,  of meetings
and the project
management unit.
Additional resource people
can be called upon when
necessary
Central       0 Prepare annual work programs               5-8 focal points per       Annual budget
Ministries    0 Ensure proper implementation of these work   ministry at the central  allocations
programs                                     level                      disbursed semi-
* Allocate funds to provincial ministries    1 full-time financial      annually in a
* Compile and prepare quarterly progress     management officer         separate account
reports to send to the PMU with a copy to the    recruited to manage    (one for each
SP-CNLS                                      project resources          ministry)
NGOs and      0 Prepare proposals for funding under        NA                         Tranche
Associations   component C                                                            disbursements
0 Prepare progress reports and send them to                            linked to results
PMU with a copy to SP-CNLS
* Collaborate directly with provincial
authorities and community representatives
- 82 -



Provincial level
CTPLS         * Coordinate all provincial HIV/AIDS/STI    1 president (High         Operating budget
activities                                  Commissioner)             allocated on a
* Approve community sub-projects and send    I VP (District Health    quarterly basis
copy to Program Management Unit with a copy  Director)
to SP-CNLS                                  1 rapporteur from
* Sign contracts with CTVLS                 Ministry of Economy and
* Compile monitoring questionnaires from the   Finance)
communities and send progress reports to PMU   1 representative from one
with a copy to SP-CNLS                      other ministry (Rural or
Education)
16 members
1 treasurer
Departmental level
CTDLS         0 Provide technical assistance and guidance to   1 president          Budgets received
(Rural)      the communities                              I VP                      through the
CTCLS         * Screen community sub-projects, as needed  1 secretary               CTPLS
(Urban)       * Assist communities to monitor the         1 treasurer
implementation of sub-projects              6 resource people
Community level
Villages      * Prepare community sub-projects            1 president               Direct funding of
(CTVLS)       * Oversee implementation of sub-projects    1 secretary               approved
* Prepare simple monitoring questionnaires  I treasurer               community sub-
and send these to the department/provincial  3 members (including     projects. Funds to
levels                                      women and PLWHA)          be allocated twice
* Manage bank account                                                 a year directly
from the PMU to
village bank
=___________ ________________________________________ _____________________   accounts
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 16
Project Supervision
1.    The project will need intensive supervision, given its multi-sectoral and multi agency
nature, fast track preparation, and large span of activities. Moreover, some of the actors to be
involved (i.e. associations of PLWHA) have relatively limited experience with Bank operations.
2.    Some of the skills required for supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others
will be required on an ad-hoc basis. It is therefore proposed to establish a core supervision team,
which would be complemented by other technical specialists, as agreed upon with the borrower.
The core team would carry out, on average, 2 three-week supervision missions annually
comprising about 5 staff. Other technical experts would provide support periodically, as required.
During the first year, a much heavier than normal supervision program would be carried out, to be
somewhat tapered down during subsequent years.
3.    At the same time, as the number of actors participating in the project grows the need for
continuous, intensive assistance will increase. During the first year of the project, the Bank
would explore the possibilities of recruiting a consultant(s) to provide technical backstopping,
possibly financed from a trust fund. This person(s) would be well placed to provide regular inputs
to Bank supervision missions and to troubleshoot at an early stage. The Bank's supervision task
would be facilitated by the borrower's Monitoring and Evaluation unit, which is being set up at the
SP-CNLS and by the continuous financial monitoring of the Project Management Unit.
4.    The core team would be comprised of the following experts from headquarters and from
the country office: (i) task team leader with experience in health projects, with particular focus on
HIV/AIDS operations; (ii) health specialist who would oversee day to day implementation of
project in country; (iii) social protection specialist who would assist with design and monitoring
of interventions aimed at mitigating the socio-economic impact of the epidemic; (iv) financial
management specialist who would review adherence to Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary
responsibilities; and (v) procurement/implementation specialist who would be responsible for the
procurement, implementation and institutional issues.
5.    The core team would also comprise of representatives of Burkina's development partners
active in the fight against HIV/AIDS. As during the preparation process, partners would be
invited to participate on supervision missions to ensure complementarity of interventions, build
strong partnerships and facilitate a cross fertilization of experiences.
6.    The core team would visit each participating province at least once a year, either by
themselves or accompanied by other specialists. For the first year, a total of 39 staff weeks are
planned, of which 22 headquarter staff weeks and 17 country office staff weeks; these amounts
would be reduced to 19 and 16 for the second year, and 15 and 16, respectively for the third year
as the country office assumes greater responsibility for the supervision of the project.
- 84 -



7.     The core team would be complemented with other technical experts in the following
areas: (a) sector specialists (e.g. rural development, education, transport, mining, energy, private
sector) to review progress in respective sector; (b) monitoring and evaluation; (c) public health,
with focus on communicable disease control; (d) communications specialist to review IEC and
BCC interventions; (e) economists to assist in priority setting and in monitoring the impact of the
epidemic on households, and/or (f) anthropologists/social scientists to explore the social and
psychological aspects of the disease. The Bank budget covers roughly 11 staff weeks of
headquarters/country office staff for (a) and (b) above. The remaining specialists would need to
be recruited on trust fund resources, as deemed necessary. With a budgetary allocation of
US$150,000 for FY02, the team has proposed the following breakdown of staff weeks:
Core Team                                           39    78%
Health/Social Protection                            29
Inst./Finan.lProcurement                            10
Sector and Technical Specialists                    11    22%
Rural Development                                    5
Transport/Mining/Energy/Private                      3
Education                                            1
Monitoring & Evaluation                              2
TOTAL                                               50
- 85 -






MAP SECTION






4&                                          2                                           02                        MAURITANIA
BURKINA   FASO                                                                                                       M          I                               A-LI-----I-----|
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                     BURKINA FASOK'Z
CAPIITALE D'ETAT                                                               ~i~                                                                       Gsdso fX
~ pRIVERS                                                                                              OUDALAN                                ?N GUI 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                           .'Gorom-Gorom                                                                  DVOIRE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                     0 I  SOUM                                                I BERIA(
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                  -,                                                                     /          14'
0         5IOM 0ES             150       200           ,            EORfUMO        -                -              S-EN O O
KILOMETERS KILOMETRES                                                                                              - Y
YATENG                                       -  _N\                                            7 
1i,   j     \slOuahigouya  >      BAM(                             '-1
SOUROU             o 4               _ , , K g    SANMATENGA  m       (          'ti4-S'                           NIGER
jougan                                Kayx               GNAGNA                              Gorouk'y-X1
KOSSI    {                  -           OTou         n , -'      f        -   ,S       0Bogand,
NoAnL           NAYALA I  _                                                                       KOMONDJARI           -N   __
J(,   tAYALA   /            ? {2-~~~~-KE1"WEOG  UBRITENGW           <      >        ,     \o/                        \-     .r       .
N                                                              -\1~~~~~~~~~~.~    znaxf4~IO                                 _
.(    0                       r         -- -      OUA AD  Lryu                            7 >
~  DedOUgOU      Rko0s KoudotI  -   KADIOGO  N ?rZorgho                                                                       -
BANWA             MOUHOUN          SANGUIE  BOLKIEE4                                                       G     RM MA                T A POA
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-GANZOURGOU\Kc,u                                                &5UM
12,                                     0 -ombissEGi0                                                                                      Fado-N'Gourma                 0            \1  12'
-- BAZEGA                           I~'
|  ;ES BALE                                       Manga    Tenkodogoo     <        ' . - 
KENEDOUGOU %                                                          ZIRO                             BOULGOU                     KOMPIENGA
[   .4  HOUET    1  TUY    ¢  .           M S   y               <                   * KO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KULPEOQ    KOMPIENGA  ¢  
TUY
I'            UD~~UET                    '"--                       ,
Bobo-                *        4'4S I SSIL                   NAHOURIP*
rZ  /Orodarao              0 ODioulasso\          O    BA(                 0 o     _
ruDilbougou
-                                                                                                                                                    B  E N  I N
/ )   ~    ~        A (                 I'OGDRB            ''                                                                             ('                     BE        IN >'
)C OMOE                  PONIOGaoua
to',                     E<"--.                                                                                                                             "*       This mop -prod ...d by the  1
NOUMBIE                                                                                                  Mp, ap |eqsign Gaitf Thu Wdd Bok.
-I j.J~The boundarie-, -lor, d-noination
and onyother informtion shawno
L Ib', this mop do not imply, n the pert of
S..                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Gr-p, any judgmet  F,
>                       G    H   A    N    A                                                        t-.  an the legalstatus of any terrttory, o,
COTE    D'IVOi, RE                                                                                                                   T 5  N   0       Z  b any.enrdrement or auuptaueof    V
'0                                                                                                                                                                                                 t,.s t  g  2°  ]_  °   t  )  '   2  0



