Report No. PID10129
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (@
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           HIV/AIDS
Project ID                       BFPE71433
Borrower(s)                      BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Address: 03 BP 712 Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Mr. Seydou Kabre
Tel: (226) 316782
Email: "PPLS" <ppls@cenatrin.bf>
COMITE NATIONAL DE LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
Address: 01 BP 7009 Ouagadougou 01
Contact Person: Dr. Andre Joseph Tiendrebeogo
Tel: (226) 324188
Email: spcnls@fasonet.bf
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 1, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 25, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 5, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Government Strategy The government of Burkina Faso realizes the gravity
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and has been proactive in implementing a series
of national plans since the emergence of the first AIDS cases in 1986.
Since that time there has been growing political commitment, an
intensification of the scope and range of interventions, and a substantial
growth in the level of financial resources for the national program.
Under the leadership of the Ministry of Health, and in close collaboration
with Burkina's technical and financial partners, the 2001-05 HIV/AIDS/STIs
Strategic Plan has now been finalized. This document provides a sound
framework for the government to coordinate all assistance targeted to the
national program. The plan was prepared in a highly participatory
fashion, which augurs well for ownership and sustainability. The main
strategies to be promoted include: (i) strengthening preventive activities
to reduce the transmission of STIs and HIV; (ii) strengthening
epidemiologic surveillance; (iii) improving the quality of care; and (iv)
strengthening national and international responses and promote
multisectoral coordination. The proposed project would contribute to the
accomplishment of these objectives. The government of Burkina has recently
taken an important decision to set up a high-level coordinating council
for the national HIV/AIDS/STIs program in the President's office. The
permanent secretariat of the national HIV/AIDS/STIs council (SP-CNLS)
would be responsible for the technical aspects of the program. These new
institutional arrangements are expected to enhance the program's
visibility, strengthen national leadership, and improve coordination of



multi-sectoral activities. External Assistance A large number of
development agencies are active in the fight against HIV/AIDS/STIs in
Burkina. Under the leadership of the UNDP, the thematic group has been
active in supporting the government to elaborate the strategic plan,
provide technical backstopping, and mobilize financing. UNDP is playing a
pivotal role in the organization of a donors' round table. The UNAIDS
technical advisor has been instrumental in supporting the strategic
planning process and in involving all national players in the fight
against the epidemic. Main areas of bilateral and multilateral
involvement include: voluntary testing and counseling and STI treatment
and screening (France, Belgium), social marketing program (Germany),
decentralized health district support (Dutch, French, Belgium),
reproductive health and family planning (US, UNFPA, Germany),
mother-to-child transmission and adolescent health (UNICEF), targeted
interventions (Canada), and technical assistance (WHO, EU, UNAIDS,UNDP).
In addition, there are a large number of national and international
non-governmental organizations active in Burkina. Main Issues This
section summarizes the team's assessment of the main issues, with a
particular focus on aspects to be tackled in the proposed operation.
Effective Targeting One of the key challenges would be to introduce an
effective targeting strategy which addresses the needs of the most
vulnerable groups, many of whom do not have a strong constituency and are
not normally the focus of government attention. Reaching the core
transmitters (e.g. commercial sex workers, highly mobile workers) makes
sense both from an epidemiologic and public economics perspective. The
government would need to identify creative ways to redress the social
exclusion and stigma experienced by many of these individuals and to
create an enabling environment for NGOs and civil society to reach these
groups.   One effective way of reaching these individuals without
stigmatizing them is to target high transmission areas, which are defined
as places with increased social mixing and high levels of commercial
activity. In many African countries, these generally include hotels for
truck drivers at the intersection of major routes, bars near trading
centers, local markets, and migrant worker residences. These high
transmission areas account for 80 percent of estimated new sexual
contacts.  Given the generalized nature of the epidemic in Burkina Faso,
the government cannot focus only on the core transmitters, particularly as
increasing numbers of sexually active individuals are also at risk.
Therefore, the national plan correctly identifies the need to cover other
sexually active groups (e.g. women, youth, civil servants, private sector
employees) and newborns. Women in general, and poor, young females are a
group which requires special attention, particularly to the extent that
they are economically vulnerable and poorly empowered to control their
sexuality. Multi-sectoral National Response Another key challenge for the
next few years would be to expand and improve on-going interventions while
broadening the range and scale of activities to be supported under the
national program. First, there is a need to expand and improve the
effectiveness of key preventive interventions. This implies that IEC
messages need to be better targeted, behavioral change communications
(BCC) need to be expanded, and a greater emphasis needs to be placed on
gender dynamics given their influence in the spread of AIDS. Second,
there is a need to provide a continuum of care to enhance the
effectiveness of preventive interventions, which have been the main focus
to date. Particular attention needs to be given to strengthening the
ability of the public health system to provide a range of quality, cost
- 2 -



effective interventions. Voluntary testing and counseling is provided in
only two urban locations and treatment of STIs and opportunistic
infections are believed to cover only a small fraction of the population
at-risk. Access is also constrained by the cost of HIV testing, which is
beyond the reach of many Burkinabe.Third, the government recognizes that
there is a need to mobilize all key stakeholders in the fight against
AIDS, including key public sector institutions; private sector firms;
NGOs; traditional healers and traditional counselors. Fourth, there is a
need to scale up interventions to the national level. While some
promising interventions have yielded positive results in terms of raising
knowledge levels, demystifying AIDS, encouraging behavioral change, and
motivating individuals to seek care for STIs, the challenge will be to
replicate these on a larger scale in order to curb the epidemic. Financing
Gap In order for Burkina to scale up the HIV/AIDS program, this would
require substantial resources over and above what has been spent in recent
years. Over the past thirteen years close to US$35 million has been spent
on HIV/AIDS activities, of which roughly 92 percent was funded by external
donors. Projected annual needs over the next five years are estimated at
US$23.0 million, which represents over a 8-fold annual increase in
spending. To date, the government has secured over US$12 million for
2001. A donors' meeting, scheduled for June 2001, is expected to firm up
commitments for subsequent years. Depending on future commitments and
absorptive capacities, the proposed project would represent between a
quarter a third of projected expenditures on HIV/AIDS/STIs activities.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of this operation is to assist the government in
implementing the 2001-05 HIV/AIDS/STIs Strategic Plan, in order to slow
the spread and mitigate the impact of the epidemic. To this end, the
project would expand access nationwide to prevention, care, and treatment
with an emphasis on vulnerable groups, such as youth, women of
childbearing age, commercial sex workers, and highly mobile workers. It
would also strengthen the capacity of public, private and community
institutions to design, implement, and monitor HIV/AIDS work programs and
sub-projects.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of Bank support is three-fold. First, Bank funding
would play a catalytic role in attracting additional funding from other
development partners, such as the Japanese government. Second, the Bank
is in a unique position to transfer cutting edge knowledge and experiences
from AIDS research, policy analysis and program design. Finally, the Bank
is well placed to mainstream HIV-AIDS activities in other priority
sectors, such as rural development, education, youth affairs, mining, and
defense.
4. Description
Line Ministry Work Programs This component would provide support to line
ministries to prepare and execute annual HIV/AIDS work programs, including
funding for:Preventive interventions, such as awareness and advocacy to
increase support and mobilize resources; targeted IEC and BCC messages and
condom promotion to encourage behavioral change among ministerial staff
and their constituencies.Policy development to address the impact of the
epidemic in the respective sector and to elaborate and carry out strategic
plans.Psycho-social counseling activities, to assist line ministry staff
- 3 -



and their families affected by the epidemic.Capacity building to enable
line ministries to initiate and sustain these activities.In the case of
the Ministry of Health (MOH), the central level would have a pivotal role
to play for those activities that involve important economies of scale,
such as the procurement of condoms, drugs, laboratory equipment and
supplies. The MOH would prepare its annual work program, stipulating all
sources of funding (e.g. own funds, HIPC, other donors). The IDA
operation would be relied on to fill any remaining financing gap. The
HIV/AIDS/STIs Work Program of the Ministry of Health would include, in
addition to the activities noted above, the following types of activities:
research and surveillance, HIV voluntary testing and counseling services,
TB care, treatment of STis and opportunistic infections; and prevention of
mother-to-child transmission.The project would also fund annual work
programs of the Permanent Secretariat of the national HIV/AIDS/STIs
coordinating council (SP-CNLS) to strengthen oversight and policy
formulation capabilities.Provincial Activities and Community Sub-Projects
Provincial Activities: This sub-component would provide assistance to
provincial authorities to: (i) plan and coordinate HIV/AIDS/STIs
activities, (ii) screen, approve and monitor community sub-projects, and
(iii) build up capacities of communities and associations to carry out
sub-projects. These activities would be carried out through: the
provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities,
training, and operating costs. Community Sub-Projects: This
sub-component would support the financing of community sub-projects in an
effort to empower local communities to better cope with the epidemic.
Sub-projects would include: (a) awareness, advocacy, peer education and
condom promotion; (b) home-based care and support for those infected and
affected by the disease; (c) care of orphans; and (d) income-generating
activities to assist affected families and to empower women economically.
The sub-component would also fund training and technical support to build
up capacities of local communities and associations to design and carry
out these sub-projects. Targeted Interventions The third component aims
to support targeted interventions through NGOs and associations.
Activities to be funded would include: (a) preventive interventions such
as peer education coupled with condom distribution; (b) STI treatment and
care; and (c) HIV testing and counseling.Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation This component would provide support for: (a) Monitoring and
evaluation, to set up and institutionalize a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system for the national program; this would include support for
epidemiological surveys and a Best Practices Book, documenting Burkina's
experiences in the fight against AIDS. The monitoring and evaluation
system would also be coupled with the establishment of a learning network
among the various stakeholders participating in the project. National and
regional workshops and seminars would be organized to share
experiences.(b) Project Management This sub-component would provide
support for maintaining a Project Management Unit with experience in the
administration of IDA operations.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       23.5
6. Implementation
A Project Management Unit, based in the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
would be responsible for the finanical management aspects of the operation
- 4 -



and for coordinating the technical aspects closely with the SP-CNLS.
7. Sustainability
To the extent feasible, the potential for sustainability is built into the
project. First, all stakeholders would be preparing their own plans and
would benefit from capacity building activities. This would enhance
ownership, commitment and institutional capacity to sustain these
activities. Second, a special effort is being made to adopt flexible
procedures for channeling funds to stakeholders. Third, some of the
preventive interventions would not need to be financed at similar
intensity levels throughout the life of the project. Against these
sustainability-enhancing measures, there are concerns about the government'
s ability to cope with the escalating costs of dealing with AIDS
patients. The demand for these services is likely to rise, as IEC and BCC
activities are intensified and individuals become more motivated to be
tested and to seek care. The involvement of PLWHA and their associations
would also raise expectations and demands. There are also concerns about
the ability of affected households to cope with the rising burden of
AIDS. UNDP and the Danish government are planning to finance a household
survey to determine the impact of the disease on households in Burkina.
This survey would provide further insights as to who is most severely
affected, how these households are coping, and what the government might
do alleviate the burden of this catastrophic illness.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Government of Burkina Faso has already begun integrating many of the
lessons from the global response to AIDS and from the implementation of
Bank-funded operations into the design of its national HIV/AIDS/STIs
Strategic Plan. It has mobilized strong commitment at the highest levels,
established partnerships with key stakeholders, and empowered
decentralized authorities to take a lead in the fight against this
pandemic. In spite of these modest steps forward, government authorities
recognize that these efforts are insufficient to slow the spread of the
disease. There is now a need to mount an effective multi-sectoral
response, to adopt appropriate targeting strategies, and to scale up the
program to a national level, moving away from high cost boutique
approaches.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues           The project does not raise any major
environmental or social issues and does not require an environmental
assessment. The project does raise some concerns with respect to waste
disposal of hazardous products. These concerns will be addressed by
incorporating criteria into the selection of sub-projects for communities,
and of work programs of line ministries.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Miriam Schneidman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-5-



(202) 473-9391
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 6 -



