Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3557 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 6, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3557 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 2001, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on September 12, 
2000, the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region, estimated in the 
amount of SDR 378,400,000 over the next three years;
(C)
this Project is part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa 
Region;
(D)
the Association has received the Borrower’s HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, 
adopted on May 9, 2001, covering FY01 through FY5, (the HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories    
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
"BCC" means Behavioral Change Communications;
(c)
"CBO" means a community-based organization or association operating under 
the Borrower’s laws and meeting the criteria provided in the Implementation Manual;
(d)
"CFAF" means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower;
(e)
"CNLS" means the Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA, the National 
AIDS Committee; 
(f)
"CTPLS" means the Comité Technique Provincial de Lutte contre le SIDA, 
the technical provincial HIV/AIDS committee, referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(g)
"CTVLS" means Comité Technique Villageois de Lutte contre le SIDA, the 
technical village HIV/AIDS committee, referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
"Eligible Categories" means: (i) Category (4) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Special Account A; and (ii) 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement in respect of the Special Account B;
(i)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement in respect of Special Account A and 
Special Account B, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to said Special Accounts’ respective Eligible Categories; 
(j)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting 
January 1 and ending December 31, each calendar year;
(k)
"HIV" means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
Page  3
(l)
"IAPSO" means the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services;
(m)
"IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
(n)
"Implementation Manual" means the Implementation Manual, to be adopted 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (a), for the implementation of all the 
components of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and containing, inter alia, 
disbursement and procurement arrangements, work plans, training plans, the monitoring 
and performance indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and procedures 
to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended 
from time to time, in consultation with the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Implementation Manual; 
(o)
"Initial Deposit" means the initial amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 6.01 (b), and referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(p)
"Line Ministries" means the Borrower’s line ministries participating in 
this Project, including, inter alia, the ministries in charge of health, defense, 
education, rural development, transportation, women’s affairs, social action and 
economy and finance;
(q)
"Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures" means the 
Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, to be adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.01 (a) and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization, operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(s)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit, referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(t)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(v)
"Project Year" means the 12 month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 month period following 
thereafter;
(w)
"SP/CNLS" means the Permanent Secretariat of the CNLS, to be established 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) to this Agreement and referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(x)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(y)
"STI" means sexually transmitted infections;
(z)
"Subproject Grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into 
between CTPLS and CTVLS for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject;
(aa)
"Subproject Grant" means a grant made or to be made to a CTVLS for the 
financing of a Subproject under Part B.2 of the Project; 
(bb)
"Subproject" means an activity or other initiative to be carried out by 
CTVLS under the Project which having met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement is eligible for financing, through a Subproject Grant, under Part B.2 of the 
Project;
(cc)
"TB" means tuberculosis;
(dd)
"UNFPA" means the United Nations Food and Population Activities;
(ee)
"UNICEF" means the United Nations International Children’s Emergency 
Fund; 
Page  4
(ff)
"WHO" means the World Health Organization;
(gg)
"Work Program MOU" means the memorandum of agreement to be entered into 
between: (i) SP/CNLS and one of the Borrower’s Line Ministries, or (ii) SP/CNLS and 
CNLS, for the purpose of carrying out a Work Program; and
(hh)
"Work Program" means: (i) the annual work program of any of the Line 
Ministries which has been approved by SP/CNLS, or (ii) the annual work program of the 
SP/CNLS, which has been approved by the CNLS, in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set out in the Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 7 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and which is eligible for financing, under the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made under a Subproject Grant or a Work Program 
Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for a 
Subproject to be financed under Part B.2 of the Project, or a Work Program to be 
financed under Part A of the Project, in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. The first of the Special Accounts (Special Account A) shall be 
used exclusively for Part B.2 of the Project, and the second Special Account (Special 
Account B) shall be used exclusively for Part A, B.1, C and D of the Project.  
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on November 1 and May 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each November 1  and May 1 commencing November 1, 2011 and ending May 1, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
Page  6
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a project 
account, in the Borrower’s Treasury, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b)
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit into the Project Account in 
an amount equivalent to $50,000 to finance the Borrower’s initial contributions to the 
expenditures under the Project; 
(c)
thereafter, at semiannual intervals, deposit into the Project Account 
such amounts as are estimated to be required for the ensuing six-month period and as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the expenditures under the Project and not otherwise 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports with respect to categories (1) through (4) and (6), acceptable to 
the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, an 
additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower has taken any administrative 
action so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SP/CNLS to perform its 
obligations under the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for 30 days after notice thereof 
Page  8
shall be given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual and the Manual of 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and the Initial Deposit, 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;
(c)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(d) 
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(e)
the Borrower has established SP/CNLS, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
03 BP 7008
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
SEGEGOUV
5555
(226) 31 27 15 or
(226) 31 54 09
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or         (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Bruno Zidouemba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    400,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures
(2)
Goods and Vehicles
  4,300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services,
  4,700,000
100%
including audits, 
and training
(4)
Subprojects
  3,300,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(5)
Work programs under
  2,600,000
90%
Part A of the Project,
including goods, 
Page  10
supplies, training,              
workshops, and in-
cremental operating 
costs
(6)
Operating costs
    400,000
95% until December 31, 
2002, 85% thereafter
(7)
Unallocated
  1,600,000
Total
 17,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, office space rental and utilities, Special Accounts banking charges, 
communications, maintenance and insurance of vehicles and fuel, travel per diems and 
allowances, travel and accommodations, and contract staff recruited to work with the 
PMU, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of       
SDR 235,000, may be made in respect of Categories (3), (5) and (6) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2001; and
(b)
Subprojects Grants unless such Subprojects Grants have been made in 
accordance with eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in the Manual of Operations and paragraphs 4 and 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures and Project Management Reports 
for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) civil 
works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting firms 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (v) Operating costs and 
training; and (vi) Subprojects Grants and Work Programs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in FCFA in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment two special deposit accounts, namely: (a) Special 
Account A for Part B. 2 of the Project; and (b) Special Account B for Parts A, B.1, C 
and D of the Project. Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
this Schedule. Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
Page  11
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account have been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the said Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the said Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the said Special 
Accounts, shall not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 300,000,000 in respect of Special 
Account A and CFAF 1.2 billion
in respect of Special Account B. Each such deposit into 
the said Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the said Special Accounts’ Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for a Special Account, or (ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any of the 
Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, 
the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
a Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the said Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
a Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
Page  12
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of Special Account A, an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into such Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000; and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 1.2 billion  to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into such Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 600,000,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit  Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of              SDR 7,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
said Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
said Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
Page  13
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into a 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into a Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the said 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 300,000,000
in respect of 
Special Account A and CFAF 1.2 billion in respect of Special Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement its HIV/AIDS 
Strategic Plan, in order to slow the spread, and mitigate the impact, of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic, through a multi-sectoral approach by: (i) the expansion nationwide to youth, 
women of childbearing age and other vulnerable groups of access to HIV/AIDS 
prevention, care and treatment; and (ii) the strengthening of the capacity of public, 
private and community institutions to design, carry out and monitor Subprojects and 
Work Programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Line Ministry Work Programs
1.
Assisting the Line Ministries of the Borrower to prepare and carry out Work 
Programs, including, inter alia, funding for: (a) preventive interventions, including 
IEC campaigns; (b) policy development; (c) assessment of psycho-social needs of line 
ministry staff; and (d) capacity building, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and the acquisition of computers, equipment and vehicles.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s Ministry of Health to carry out 
Work Programs, through: (a) research and surveillance; and (b) treatment and care, 
including: (i) HIV voluntary testing and counseling services, (ii) care of TB 
patients, (iii) treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections, and (iv) prevention of 
mother-to-child HIV transmission, all through the provision of
technical advisory 
services, civil works, training and the acquisition of computers, equipment, vehicles 
and medical equipment and supplies.
3.
Assisting SP/CNLS to prepare and carry out Work Programs to, inter alia: (a) 
plan, program and coordinate the national HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Plan, (b) facilitate 
decentralization of HIV/AIDS activities and STIs, and (c) monitor progress and 
facilitate exchange of best practices, including: (i) the establishment of a learning 
network among stakeholders participating in the Project; and (ii) the design and 
Page  14
dissemination of a "Best Practices" book documenting the Borrower’s experiences in its 
fight to control and prevent HIV/AIDS/STI, all through the provision of civil works, 
technical advisory services, training, workshops and the acquisition of computers, 
equipment and vehicles.
Part B:
Provincial Activities and Subprojects
1.
Assisting the Borrower’s provincial authorities to: (a) plan and coordinate 
HIV/AIDS/STI activities, (b) screen, approve and monitor Subprojects, and (c) build up 
capacities of communities and associations to carry out Subprojects, all through the 
provision of
technical advisory services, training and the acquisition of computers 
and equipment.
2.
Carrying out Subprojects to empower CTVLS to deal with the HIV/AIDS/STI epidemic 
through, inter alia: (a) HIV/AIDS/STI awareness, advocacy, peer education and condom 
promotion, (b) home-based care and support for persons infected and affected by the 
disease, (c) care of orphans, and (d) income-generating activities to assist affected 
families and to empower women economically, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, the acquisition of equipment and the payment of school fees.
Part C:
Targeted Interventions
Supporting the Borrower to carry out targeted interventions through NGO and CBOs 
aimed at youth, women of childbearing age, commercial sex workers, prisoners, truck 
drivers, migrant workers and other vulnerable groups, including, the funding of 
activities such as: (a) preventive interventions, including peer education coupled 
with condom distribution, (b) STI treatment and care, and (c) HIV testing and 
counseling, all through the provision of technical advisory services, training and the 
acquisition of equipment.
Part D:
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Setting up and institutionalizing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation 
system for the HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Plan 2001/2005, including: (a) support for the 
demographic and health survey proposed for FY 2004/2005; (b) the carrying out of a 
bi-annual behavioral surveillance survey to monitor behavioral change among targeted 
groups; (c) the updating of a national baseline of HIV and STI incidence rates; and 
(d) the replication of the mapping of high transmission areas, through the provision 
of technical advisory services, training and the acquisition of equipment.
2.
Support for the monitoring of the Project and the financial and administrative 
coordination of the Project through the carrying out of technical and financial 
audits, all through the provision of
technical advisory services, training and the 
acquisition of computers, equipment and vehicles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
Page  15
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National and International Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 1 of this Part, goods estimated to 
cost less than: (a) $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts in the case of Line 
Ministries, CNLS and CTPLS; and (b) $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured in the case of PMU 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount no to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Subject to paragraph 1 of this Part, goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured from IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works for Subprojects under Part  B.2 of the Project shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  16
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) the first three contracts under National 
Competitive Bidding; and (c) all direct contracting, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  17
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for research from consulting firms, NGO’s and research institutes 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and training when training 
cost exceeds $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services: (a) of Faso Baraa; (b) for activities at the provincial and community 
levels estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000; and (c) for beneficiary assessments, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services of consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2. Prior 
Review
(a)
With respect to each contract [for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  18
Implementation Program
1.
Implementation Manual and Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual, and the Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive 
any provision of the Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
SP/CNLS: The Borrower shall maintain SP/CNLS in a form and with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. SP/CNLS shall have overall 
technical oversight over the Project, in collaboration with the PMU.
3.
PMU:
(a) The Borrower shall, within its Ministry in charge of Economy and 
Finance, maintain, in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory 
to the Association, the PMU. The functions of the PMU shall include: (i) coordination 
with SP/CNLS related to the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the monitoring and 
funding of activities under the Project; (iii) the management of the Special Accounts; 
(iv) the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the Project; (v) the 
arrangement of random Project audits to be carried out by independent auditors 
satisfactory to the Association; and (vi) all other financial reporting functions 
required under the Project.
(b)
The PMU shall have staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Association, including accounting, financial management and procurement personnel 
in adequate numbers, all of whom shall be appointed on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
      The PMU shall maintain: (i) a financial and accounting system, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the Project; and (ii) to that end, maintain a 
comprehensive Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures.
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be for activities related to HIV/AIDS/STI in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines set forth in the Implementation 
Manual, which shall include, but not be limited to, activities in the following areas, 
HIV/AIDS/STI awareness, advocacy, peer education, condom supply and dissemination, 
home based care, care of orphans and income generating activities. 
5.
Eligibility Criteria for Work Programs
Work Programs shall be for activities related to HIV/AIDS/STI activities in the 
Line Ministries and SP/CNLS  in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures 
and guidelines set forth in the Implementation Manual, which shall include, but not be 
limited to, activities in the following areas: IEC/BCC campaigns, policy development, 
research and surveillance and capacity building.  HIV/AIDS/STI activities in the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health shall be for activities related to treatment and care, 
including HIV voluntary testing and counseling services, care of TB patients, 
treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections and prevention of mother-to child 
transmissions. 
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, Work 
Programs shall be elaborated, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with 
the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in the Implementation 
Manual.
6.
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Grants 
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Subprojects shall be elaborated, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance 
with the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in the 
Implementation Manual.
The Borrower shall, through CTPLS, enter into agreements with CTVLS, under terms 
Page  19
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of CTVLS: (i) to carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures relating to the Subproject;
(b)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall: (i) be procured in accordance with 
procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Subproject; and
(c)
the Borrower reserves the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(ii)
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of CTVLS; and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of CTVLS to use the proceeds of the 
Subproject Grant upon the failure by the CTVLS to perform any of 
its obligations under the Subproject Grant Agreement.
7. 
Terms and Conditions of Work Program MOUs 
SP/CNLS and CNLS, as well as SP/CNLS and the Line Ministries shall enter into 
Work Program MOUs with each other, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of SP/CNLS and the Line Ministries: (i) to carry out the 
Work Program with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures relating to the Work Program;
(b)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Work Program shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Work Program; 
and
(c)
the Borrower reserves the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Work Program, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(ii)
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of SP/CNLS and the Line Ministries; and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of SP/CNLS or any of the Line 
Ministries to use the proceeds of the Project upon the failure by 
SP/CNLS or the Line Ministries to perform any of its obligations 
under the Work Program MOU.
Page  20
8.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 in each year: (i) a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) 
a Project performance report in the format described in the Implementation Manual; and
(c)
review with the Association, on or about April 30 in each year, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project.
9.
Annual Work Programs. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than November 15 in each year, furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments, a draft annual work program and supporting draft budget for 
the next Project Year including the particular works, goods, and services within the 
Project which the Borrower wishes to be financed from the Credit during the said 
following Project Year and the estimated expenditures for the current year;
(b)
not later than December 15 in each Project Year: (i) review and approve 
with the Association the documents referred to in paragraphs 8 (a) and 9 (a) above; 
(ii) identify implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions; and (iii) 
update Project timetables and performance indicators; and
(c)
not later than December 31 in each Project Year: (i) furnish to the 
Association the annual work program and budget referred to in paragraph 8 (a) above, 
as such program and budget shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the 
Association in the course of the review referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the 
Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work program and budget, as 
so revised and, in particular, not undertake any new investments not specified in the 
Project without prior consultation with the Association.
10.
Mid-Term Review
(a)
The Borrower shall, on or about March 31, 2004, carry out jointly with 
the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) an evaluation of the Subprojects and the 
Work Programs; (iv) progress on procurement and disbursements; and (v) make 
adjustments to  the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance, if needed.
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish 
to the Association reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to 
deal with deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and 
shall thereafter implement such action plan.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  21
Performance Indicators
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT INTO DOCUMENT
