Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NOS. 3516-1-PAK AND 3906 - PAK 
 
Project Agreement for Part Z 
 
(NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project and Second NWFP 
Community Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated December 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NOS. 3516-1-PAK AND 3906 - PAK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT FOR PART Z 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 6, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER 
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP). 
 
(A)  
WHEREAS by the Agreement Amending Selected Development Credit 
Agreements (the “Amending Agreement”) of even date herewith between the Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
million seven hundred and sixty six thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,766,000), 
through reallocations and additional financing, on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Amending Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(B)  
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Amending Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Selected Development Credit Agreements, the Agreement Amending Selected 
Development Credit Agreements (the Amending Agreement), the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of Part Z of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Selected Development Credit Agreements as amended by 
the Amending Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part Z of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and community development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for Part Z of the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NWFP shall otherwise agree, NWFP shall carry out 
Part Z of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for Part Z of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan for  
Part Z
.
(b) 
NWFP shall update the Procurement Plan for Part Z in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan for Part Z, for 
the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) NWFP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of  Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NWFP shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date for Part Z of the Project (set out in paragraph 
6
of
Schedule 1 to each Selected Development Credit 
Agreement as amended in Section 5.02 of the Amending 
Agreement), or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and NWFP, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of Part Z 
of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NWFP on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) NWFP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part Z of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credits. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
NWFP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part Z of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credits, or the performance by NWFP of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part Z of the Project. 
(b) 
with respect to Part Z, NWFP  shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such period as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory 
to the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon 
NWFP’s reporting obligations set out 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement, NWFP shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Financial Monitoring Report for Part Z, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part Z of  the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the respective Credits, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part Z of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part Z of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date,
 
and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Part Z of the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR until the 
end of such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amending Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Amending Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Amending Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before 
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify 
NWFP of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For NWFP: 
 
Governor   
 
North West Frontier Province 
 
Peshawar, Pakistan  
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
92-91-9210354 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be 
taken or executed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Government of 
NWFP, or such other person or persons he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
 
Country Director 
 Pakistan 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
By /s/ Syed Manzoor Ali Shah 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
and Consultants’ Services for Part Z 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, all goods, works, and 
services (other than consultants’ services) for Part Z of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendices 1 and 2 to, the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated 
May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost more than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost more than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
(i) 
Invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of the bid; 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee; 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
(iv) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
(v) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents; 
(vi) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;  
(vii) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with 
an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(viii) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association
’s 
prior concurrence shall be obtained; 
(ix) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
unit prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates; 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates; 
(xi) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder;  
(xii) 
post-bid negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders; and 
(xiii) 
cost estimates shall be prepared on current market rates. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per 
contract, goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per 
contract, and all vehicles regardless of value, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works, and services required for Part Z 
of the Project may be procured on the basis of Community Participation in accordance 
with paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Works and goods which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. Direct Contracting shall only be allowed for a 
period of one year from the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
 
5. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
said procurement method. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Consultants’ services may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For 
purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. Single 
Source Selection
 
shall only be allowed for a period of one year from the Effective Date of 
this Agreement. 
 
7. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) the first 
contract for goods and works procured using National Competitive Bidding and 
Shopping regardless of value; (b) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $ 100,000 or more;  (c) the first contract for consultants’ services awarded  
to a firm by each implementing entity, regardless of value; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 100,000 or 
more per contract; (e) the first contract for consultants’ services awarded to an individual 
consultant by each implementing entity, regardless of value; and (f) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program for Part Z of the Project 
A. General
1. 
NWFP shall implement Part Z of the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental and Social Assessment Guidelines for Part Z, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in 
the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of Part Z of the Project. 
 
2. 
NWFP shall, throughout implementation of Part Z of the Project, maintain the 
Provincial Steering Committee, the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit and 
District Coordination Committees in each Affected Area, with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
NWFP shall take steps to ensure that, throughout implementation of Part Z of the 
Project, adequate levels of staffing are maintained as needed for the Project and agreed 
with the Association from time to time. 
 
B. Sub-Projects
4. 
NWFP shall ensure that only those Sub-Projects which meet the following 
requirements shall be entitled to receive financing under Part Z of the Project: 
 
5. 
The general eligibility criteria for the Sub-Projects to be financed under Part Z.1 
of the Project are: 
 
(a) 
All Sub-Projects must be attributable to damage caused by the earthquake 
and the unusual rainfall/snow fall events of February-March 2005 and the 
June-July 2005 river floods;  
 
(b) 
Sub-Projects relating to all sectors (except the road and irrigation sectors) 
costing more than three hundred thousand Rupees (Rs. 300,000) will be 
eligible to be financed under Part Z of the Project; 
 
(c) 
Sub-Projects relating to restoration of roads under Part Z.1(a) of the Project 
must be selected from those reported by the relevant district administration;
 
and 
Page  12
-
11 -
(d) 
With the exception of the earthquake-Affected Areas of Abottabad, 
Shangla, Mansehra, Kohistan and Battagram, irrigation canals that do not 
belong to the government will not be rehabilitated under Part Z.1(d) of the 
Project.
 
6. 
The following Sub-Projects under Part Z.1 of the Project will get priority for 
financing: 
 
(a) 
For restoration of roads under Part Z.1(a) of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Reconstruction/repairs of the major bridges; 
(ii) 
Roads that are vital for economic activities such as those used for 
transporting consumable goods and agricultural produce; 
(iii) 
Roads that benefit more population; and 
(iv) 
Roads that pose risks to plying traffic. 
 
(b) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of government administration buildings 
under Part Z.1 (b) of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed buildings as against partially damaged 
buildings; and 
(ii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture in the 
restored government administration buildings. 
 
(c) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of schools under Part Z.1(b) of the 
Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed schools as against partially damaged schools; 
and 
(ii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture and teaching 
equipment in the restored schools. 
 
(d) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of health facilities under Part Z.1(b) of 
the Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed dispensaries particularly in rural areas; 
(ii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture and 
equipment in the restored hospital/dispensary. 
 
(e) For 
repair of water supply schemes under Part Z.1(c) of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Restoration of all water supply schemes reported damaged to their 
pre-Emergency conditions; and  
(ii) 
Restoration works for schemes where the outages are frequent.
 
Page  13
-
12 -
(f) 
For repair/restoration of i
rrigation canals under Part Z.1(d) of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Restoration of government canals reported damaged, to their pre-
emergency conditions; and 
(ii) 
Restoration of civil canals and irrigation systems in the earthquake-
Affected Areas of Abottabad, Shangla, Mansehra, Kohistan and 
Battagram. 
 
C. Review:
7. NWFP 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2007, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part Z of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part Z of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
 
