Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NOS. 3516-1-PAK AND 3906 - PAK 
 
Agreement Amending  
Selected Development Credit Agreements 
 
(NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project and Second NWFP Community 
Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
and 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
Dated December 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NOS. 3516-1-PAK AND 3906 - PAK 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING SELECTED 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENTS  
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING SELECTED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT 
AGREEMENTS (the Amending Agreement) dated December 6, 2005, between the 
ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (the “Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”). 
 
(A) 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have entered into two 
Development Credit Agreements, the first dated August 28, 2001, relating to the North 
West Frontier Province On-farm Water Management Project (Cr. No. 3516-PAK) (the 
“NWFP On-Farm Project”), and the second dated August 11, 2004, relating to the Second 
NWFP Community Infrastructure Project (Cr. No. 3906-PAK)
 
(the NWFP CIP II 
Project), (together, the “Selected Development Credit Agreements”); 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to provide 
financial assistance to support the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation of 
communities affected by an earthquake which occurred in the Borrower’s territory on 
October 8, 2005, as well as by floods which occurred as a consequence of heavy rainfall 
and snowfall in February and March 2005, followed by heavy floods due to large-scale 
melting of accumulated snow in June and July 2005 (the Emergency), as described in 
Part Z of Schedule 2 to the Selected Development Credit Agreements, as amended; 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to provide financial assistance to 
support the implementation of Part Z of the Project by: (i) increasing the amount made 
available under the NWFP On-Farm Project by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 6,900,000) (the Additional Credit); (ii) by reallocating from existing financing 
Categories in the NWFP On-Farm Project, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,200,000); and (iii)  by 
reallocating from existing financing Categories in the NWFP CIP II Project, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight hundred six hundred and sixty six thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR8,666,000); and 
 
(D) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, among other things, 
of the foregoing, to assist the Borrower with these activities upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Preamble; General Conditions; Definitions and Financing 
 
Section 1.01. In the Preamble to each Selected Development Credit Agreement, 
the following new clauses (C), (D), and (E) are added as the last enumerated recitals to 
read: 
 
“(C) 
some districts in the North West Frontier Province of the 
Borrower were devastated by an earthquake which occurred in the Borrower’s 
territory on October 8, 2005, and were earlier affected by
 
floods as a 
consequence of heavy rainfall and snowfall in February and March 2005, 
followed by heavy floods due to large-scale melting of accumulated snow in June 
and July 2005 (the Emergency); 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide financial 
assistance in order to assist in financing emergency flood and earthquake damage 
recovery and mitigation activities under Part Z of the Project; and  
 
(E) 
the Association has agreed to the Borrower’s request for such 
assistance;” 
 
Section 1.02. A new paragraph is added at the end of Section 1.01 of each 
Selected Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
 
“With respect to Part Z of the Project, Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part Z of the Project, may be withdrawn to pay for 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods, works or services to be 
financed under the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its Credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at 
any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Development Credit Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Association.””  
 
Section 1.03. Unless the context otherwise requires and except where otherwise 
defined in this Amending Agreement, all capitalized terms contained herein shall have 
Page  4
-
3
-
the meanings given to them in each Selected Development Credit Agreement, the 
Preamble to this Amending Agreement, or in the General Conditions as the case requires. 
 
Section 1.04. The following new definitions are added to Section 1.02 of each 
Selected Development Credit Agreement unless any such definition is already included in 
such section: 
 
(za) 
“Affected Areas” means the districts of Chitral, Dir Upper, Dir Lower, Swat, 
Shangla, Abbottabad, Mansehra, Battagram, Kohistan, Peshawar, Nowshera, 
Charsadda,  and D. I. Khan and any other districts that the Association and the 
Borrower jointly designate;  
 
(zb) 
“Affected Communities” means individuals, households or groups who, as a 
result of the Emergency, have had, or shall have, their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; (ii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; and (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected; 
 
(zc) 
 “Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated 
December 6, 2005;  
 
(zd) 
“Cash Grants” means cash payments for livelihood support to affected persons 
under Part Z.2(a) of the Project; 
 
(ze) 
“District Coordination Committees” means committees set up at the district level 
to be responsible for the implementation of Part Z of the Project within their 
respective districts, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement for Part Z of the Project; 
 
(zf) 
“Financial Monitoring Report or FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement; 
 
(zg) 
“NWFP On-Farm Part Z Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement into which funds from the NWFP On-Farm Project 
may be deposited; 
 
(zh) 
“NWFP CIP II Part Z Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement into which funds from the NWFP CIP II Project 
may be deposited; 
 
(zi) 
“Environmental and Social Assessment Guidelines for Part Z” means guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association to be prepared by NWFP to deal with potential 
environmental, indigenous people, resettlement and land acquisition issues 
arising from the implementation of Part Z of the Project; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(zj) 
“Project Agreement for Part Z” means the agreement between the Association 
and NWFP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement for Part Z; 
 
(zk) 
“Procurement Plan for Part Z” means the Borrower’s procurement plan covering 
the initial 6 month period (or longer) of Project implementation as the same shall 
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 3.04(a) to this Agreement and Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement for 
Part Z, to cover succeeding 6 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation. 
 
(zl) 
“Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit” or “PCMU” means the unit 
responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of Part Z activities, 
and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for Part Z 
of the Project; 
 
(zm) 
“Provincial Steering Committee” means the Committee responsible for providing 
overall strategic and policy guidance for the implementation of the Project and 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for Part Z; 
 
(zn) 
“Report-based Disbursements for Part Z” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in paragraph 10 in 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement (as amended); 
 
(zo) 
“Special Accounts for Part Z” means, collectively, the NWFP On-Farm Part Z 
Special Account and the NWFP CIP II Part Z Special Account; and 
 
(zp) 
“Sub-Project” means an activity under Part Z.1 of the Project that has been 
selected in accordance with the requirements set out in paragraph B of  
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for Part Z. 
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.01 of the NWFP On-Farm Project Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, 
on the terms and subject to the conditions set out, or referred to, in the 
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty one million one hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 21,150,000) (the “Credit”) which consists of: (a) an initial amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million two hundred and fifty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,250,000) (the “Initial Credit”); and (b) an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000) (the “Additional Credit”).”  
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04(b)(i) of the NWFP 
On-Farm Project Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:  
 
“provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional Credit 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the signing of the 
Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.07. A new Sub-Section (e) is added to Section 2.07 of the NWFP On-
Farm Project Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
 
“(e) 
Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) above, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Additional Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2016, and 
ending August 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on August 1, 2025, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Special Accounts for Part Z
 
Section 2.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article II of each 
Selected Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 2.09. (a) In accordance with any special instructions or 
arrangements made by the Association, the Borrower may, for the purposes of 
Part Z of the Project (excluding any activities under any other parts or 
components of the Project), open and maintain in dollars two separate special 
deposit accounts – the NWFP On-Farm Special Account and the NWFP CIP II 
Special Account (together, the “Special Accounts for Part Z”) in the National 
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
 
(b) 
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a), above, deposits 
into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account for Part Z shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement (as 
amended by the Amending Agreement).” 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article III of each 
Selected Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 3.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement relating to 
procurement of the goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall apply to all Parts of the Project 
except for Part Z.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and services required for Part Z of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credits allocated to Part Z shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement for Part Z as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan for Part Z.” 
 
(b)  
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of Part Z of the Project shall be carried out by NWFP pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement for Part Z.” 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article IV of each 
Selected Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause NWFP to maintain 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
with respect to Part Z of the Project, the Borrower  shall, and 
shall cause NWFP to: 
 
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the date of 
the Association’s request for such audit, (A) certified 
copies of the respective financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such period as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and the audit of such 
financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account for Part Z activities were made on the basis of Report-Based 
Disbursements for Part Z referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement or on statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause NWFP to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year after the 
end of the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included 
in any audit that the Association may have requested 
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations under this agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause 
NWFP to prepare and furnish to the Association Financial Monitoring Reports 
for Part Z, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part Z of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part Z 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part Z of the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said 
reports. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report for Part Z shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
first calendar quarter after the Effective Date
,
and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure for Part Z of  the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report for  
Part Z shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter and shall
 cover such calendar quarter.” 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds 
 
Section 5.01. The existing tables relating to withdrawal of Credit proceeds set out 
in Schedule 1 to each Selected Development Credit Agreement are deleted and replaced 
with the tables set out in Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The following paragraphs are added after the final paragraph of 
Schedule 1.A in each Selected Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“5. 
“For Part Z of the Project, the Association may require withdrawals from 
the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for 
expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract; (b) works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for 
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; (f) Incremental Operating Costs; 
and (g) Cash Grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
6. 
Notwithstanding the Closing Date indicated in Article II of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and except as the Association may otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made for activities under Part Z of the Project 
after December 31 2007. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
7.  
The term “incremental operating costs” for purposes of Part Z of the 
Project means the salaries and allowances and other emoluments of the staff 
recruited by PCMU, operations, maintenance and/or rental costs of vehicles, 
operations and maintenance costs of equipment and office premises acquired by 
the PCMU at the Provincial and District levels, bank charges and the costs of 
advertising in the media for bids and other purposes related to the Emergency. 
 
8. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
the Amending Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories 
(96), (97), (98) and (99) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after February 28, 2005. 
 
9. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall 
be made for Categories (96), (97), (98) and (99) in this Amending Agreement in 
respect of payments made for expenditures whose contracts have been awarded 
twelve (12) months after the Effective Date of this Amending Agreement, 
without the prior approval of the Association. 
 
10. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account for  
Part Z to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the 
FMR and any other information as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower (Report-based Disbursements for Part Z). In the case of the first such 
request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been made from 
the Credit Account in respect of Part Z, the Borrower shall submit to the 
Association only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds 
for Part Z of the Project for the six-month (6) period following the date of such 
request. 
 
11. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories 
(97) and (99) unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence of 
satisfactory and acceptable guidelines, eligibility criteria and financial 
management arrangements. 
 
12. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of 
the Credit withdrawn for Part Z of the Project was used in a manner inconsistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit into the Credit 
Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used.” 
 
Section 5.03. The terms “Eligible Categories” and “Eligible Expenditures” 
wherever they appear in any Selected Development Credit Agreement shall, for the 
Page  11
-
10 -
purposes of the Special Accounts for Part Z, include Categories (96), (97), (98) and (99) 
set out in the table in Schedule 1 to each Selected Development Credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Project Description
 
Section 6.01. Schedule 2 to each Selected Development Credit Agreement setting 
out the description of the Project is amended as set out in Annex 2 to this Amending 
Agreement.  
 
Section 6.02. In respect of each Selected Development Credit Agreement, the 
term “Project” shall include, unless the context otherwise requires, all parts of the Project, 
including Part Z, as described in Schedule 2 to each Selected Development Credit 
Agreement; provided, however, that in respect of any other agreement or understanding 
referred to or incorporated in any of the Selected Development Credit Agreement the 
term “Project” shall not include Part Z thereof. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 7.01. This Amending Agreement will be effective only after the 
Association dispatches a notice to this effect, upon its receiving the following: 
 
(a) 
the signed copy of this Amending Agreement;  
 
(b) 
a legal opinion from the Borrower, satisfactory to the Association, 
showing that the Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c) 
a duly authorized or ratified copy of the Project Agreement for Part Z  
which is legally binding upon NWFP in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(d) 
a legal opinion from NWFP, satisfactory to the Association, showing that 
the Project Agreement for Part Z has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed 
and delivered on behalf of, NWFP and is legally binding upon NWFP  in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
Section 7.02.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 7.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if 
this Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Khalid Saeed 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
Annex I 
 
REVISED SCHEDULES FOR  
WITHDRAWAL OF CREDIT PROCEEDS 
 
CR 3516-PAK 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of Expenditure 
to be Financed
(1) Civil Works: 
 
(a) NWFP 
 
(i) Local minor  
Irrigation 
schemes 
 
3,000,000 
 
80% 
 
(ii) Distributary/ 
minor canals 
 
670,000  
80% 
(iii) Main/branch 
canals 
 
(b) FATA 
 
 
(i) Local minor 
irrigation 
Schemes                
100,000  
80% 
 
(ii) Distributary 
/minor canals      
200,000 
 
80% 
Page  14
-
13 -
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of Expenditure 
 
to be Financed
(2)  Goods                        
(a) Construction 
materials for 
watercourses, water 
storage tanks, and on-
farm improvements 
 
65% up to 
December 7, 2003; 
70% up to July 1, 
2004; and 90% 
thereafter 
 
(i) NWFP 
2,610,000 
 
(ii) FATA 
  160,000 
 
(b) Equipment, vehicles 
 
and office furniture: 
 
(i) NWFP                                    
(ii) FATA                                                               
25,000 
 
25,000 
 
100 % of foreign 
expenditures; 100% of 
local expenditures (ex 
factory cost) and  80% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consulting services                                                          
and Training 
 
100% 
 
(i) NWFP 
   910,000 
 
(ii) FATA 
   180,000 
 
(4) Incremental  
administrative and 
 
operating costs: 
 
90% 
 
(i) NWFP 
1,110,000 
 
(ii) FATA 
   60,000 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of Expenditure 
to be Financed
Allocations for Part Z 
 
(96) Goods, Works, 
Training and Consultants’ 
Services, and Incremental 
Operating Costs for  
Part Z 
3,700,000 2,900,000 
100% 
 
(97) Cash Grants 
1,500,000 
4,000,000 
100% 
 ________ 
________ 
 
Sub-total: 14,250,000
6,900,000
Cancellation (as of 
06/10/04) 
 2,350,000 
 
TOTAL 
–
Original Credit
 
_________ 
16,600,000
________ 
6,900,000
Page  16
-
15 -
CR 3906-PAK 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
11,694,000 
70% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
    160,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures; 100% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex factory cost) and  
 
80% of local expenditures 
 
for other items procured  
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
  1,130,000 
 88% of expenditures for  
 
services  
 
 foreign firms or  
 
individuals; and 98% of  
 
expenditures for local  
 
firms or individuals 
 
(4) 
Training and  
 
        2,880,000   
         100% 
 community 
 mobilization 
 
(5) 
Incremental operating 
310,000 
  60% until June 30, 2005; 
and administrative costs
 
55% from July 1, 2005
 
until June 30, 2007; and 
 
40%
thereafter 
 
(6) Unallocated 
460,000 
 
Page  17
-
16 -
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Allocations for Part Z  
 
(98) 
Civil works, Goods,  
4,866,000 
100% 
Consultants’ Services, Training  
and Incremental  
Operating Costs 
 
(99) Cash 
Grants 
3,800,000 
100% 
 
________  
 
TOTAL 25,300,000
Page  18
-
17 -
Annex 2 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION FOR PART Z 
 
1. 
In each Selected Development Credit Agreement, a new paragraph is inserted 
after the first paragraph of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) setting out an 
additional objective of the Project as follows:  
 
“A further objective of the Project is to assist NWFP in carrying out a program to 
restore vital economic and social infrastructure in the Affected Areas.” 
 
2. 
In each Selected Development Credit Agreement, the following new Part is 
added at the end of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project): 
 
“Part Z
:
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery and Mitigation Program
1. 
Restoration of economic and social infrastructure through the carrying 
out of Sub-Projects for:  
 
(a)  
the reconstruction and repair of damaged road embankments, pavements, 
culverts, bridges, retaining walls, and other ancillary works; 
 
(b)  
the reconstruction and repair of buildings such as schools, health 
facilities and government administration buildings, including, reconstruction and 
repair to damaged boundary walls, rooms, sanitary facilities, and other ancillary 
works, and carrying out repairs and/or replacement of basic furniture and 
fixtures; 
 
(c)  
the repair of damaged pipelines, pumping equipment, and other ancillary 
works; and 
 
(d)  
the repair of breaches in irrigation canal embankments, removal of debris 
deposited in the canal prisms, control structures, canal cross drainage structures 
and outlet structures. 
2. 
 Strengthening of the safety nets and disaster preparedness programs 
through: 
(a) 
Provision of Cash Grants; and 
(b) 
Provision of in-kind assistance to Affected Communities including 
distribution of agricultural inputs and technology and provision of medical 
Page  19
-
18 -
assistance through the establishment and strengthening of model medical camps 
in the Affected Areas.   
3. 
Project Management and Implementation Support 
Provision of technical and financial assistance for the management and 
monitoring and evaluation of activities under Part Z of the Project.
”
Page  20
-
19 -
Annex 3 
 
The following Schedule 5 is inserted in each Selected Development Credit 
Agreement.
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Operation of the Special Accounts for Part Z 
 
1. 
In accordance with any special instructions or arrangements made by the 
Association, the Borrower may, for the purposes of Part Z of the Project (excluding any 
activities under any other parts or components of the Project), open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts 
–
the NWFP On-Farm Special Account and 
the NWFP CIP II Special Account (together, the “Special Accounts for Part Z”) - in the 
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts for Part Z have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Accounts for Part Z shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements for Part Z, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this  
Schedule 5; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements for Part Z , 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this  
Schedule 5.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts for Part Z shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures incurred for Part Z of the Project.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Accounts for Part Z, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures under Part Z of the Project. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 5, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts for 
Part Z:  
 
Page  21
-
20 -
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement (as amended) 
relating to Part Z of the Project adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements for Part Z of the Project;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures incurred for Part Z of the Project should be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for Part Z; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-
based Disbursements for Part Z or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
as the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts for Part Z in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 5 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Accounts for Part Z may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts for Part Z was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure for Part Z of the Project, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special 
Accounts for Part Z (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts for Part Z shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts for Part Z will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures for Part Z of the Project during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to 
the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
the Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts for Part Z.  
Page  22
-
21 -
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Operation of the Special Accounts for Part Z 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements for Part Z 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, for the purposes of 
this Annex A to Schedule 5
,
the term “Authorized Allocation for Part Z” means the 
specific amount indicated against the name of this Project in paragraph 4 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts for Part Z pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for Part Z and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Accounts for Part Z shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for Part Z, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts 
for Part Z of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation for Part Z.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Accounts for Part Z such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts for Part Z, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Accounts for Part Z at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Accounts for Part Z such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Accounts for Part Z for Eligible Expenditures under 
Part Z of the Project.  Each such deposit into the Special Accounts for Part Z shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts for Part Z, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
Page  23
-
22 -
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for Part Z.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts for Part Z as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures for Part Z of the Project. 
 
4. 
The “Authorized Allocation for Part Z” for this Project shall be determined 
according to the amount indicated against its name in the following table. 
 
NWFP On-Farm Water Management 
Project (Credit Number 3516-PAK)  
US$ 2,000,000 
Second NWFP Community Infrastructure 
Project (Credit Number 3906-PAK).   
US$ 2,000,000 
Page  24
-
23 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Operation of the Special Accounts for Part Z 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements for Part Z
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account for 
Part Z in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account for Part Z shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2.  
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts for Part Z an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the reports referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement (as amended) applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures for Part Z of the Project during the 
six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
