                                                 Document of
                                               The World Bank


                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                  ReportNo. 34254-PAK


                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                              PROJECTPAPER

                                                       FOR

PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGINTHE AMOUNT OF SDR6.9 MILLIONgJS$lO.O
 MILLIONEQUIVALENT) AND RESTRUCTURINGWITH REALLOCATIONOF SDR 5.2
                              MILLION(US7.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                       FOR

      THE NORTHWEST FRONTIERPROVINCEON-FARMWATER MANAGEMENT
                                                   PROJECT

                                                       AND

      PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURINGWITH REALLOCATION OF SDR 8.666 MILLION
                                   (US$12.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                       FOR

THE SECONDNORTHWEST FRONTIERPROVINCECOMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                   PROJECT

                                                        TO

                               THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOFPAKISTAN


                                             November17,2005




AgricultureandRuralDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthAsia Region

Thls document has a restricted distributionand may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

            CURRENCYANDEQUIVALENTS

                Currency Unit=Palustan Rupee
            US$1=PKR59.7 (November, 2005)

                       FISCALYEAR

                       July 1-June 30



           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ACS        Additional Chief Secretary
ALD        Agriculture and Livestock Department
DCC        District Coordinating Committee
DCO        District Coordinating Officer
ED0        Executive District Officer
ED0(P&F)   Executive District Officer (Planning and Finance)
ERRA       Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Authority
FATA       Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FMR        Financial Management Report
FWUA       Federationof Water users Associations
FO         Former Organization
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
IPD        Irrigation and Power Department
IRC        InternationalRescue Committee
NBP        National Bank o f Pakistan
NCB        National Competitive bidding
NWFP       NorthWest Frontier Province
O&M        Operation andMaintenance
PC         Provincial Coordinator
PCMU       Project Coordination and MonitoringUnit
P&DD       Planning and Development Department
TMA        Tehsil Municipal Administration
UNDAC      UnitedNations Disaster Assessment Committee
W&SD       Works and Services Department




          Vice President   :   Praful Patel, SARVP
         Country Director  :   John W. Wall, SACPK
          Sector Director  :   Constance Bernard, SASAR
          Sector Manager   :   Adolfo Brizzi, SASAR
            Task Leader    :   Tekola Dejene, SASAR

                                        TABLE OFCONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                       Page

A       INTRODUCTION          .................................................................................................................          1
B..     BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                           .....................  1
        1.    Project Data and Performance ......................................................................................                         1
        2.    The Earthquake andFloodDisasters ............................................................................                              2
C.      PROPOSEDCHANGES                .......................................................................................................           3
D       CONSISTENCYWITH CAS                     ...............................................................................................          5
E..     APPRAISAL OF THE NEWACTIVITIES                                   .......................................................................         5
        1.    Technical.......................................................................................................................           5
        2.    Institutional...................................................................................................................           6

        4.
        3.    Fiduciary Aspects ......................................................................................................... 7
              Environmental and Social Aspect .................................................................................                          7
F.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                   ...................................................................................................           8
G       BENEFITSAND RISKS              .......................................................................................................
H..     FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL FINANCING 8                                                                                      .8


                                                      TABLES

Table-1: EstimatedCosts (by Component) ...........................................................................................                       4
                                                                                                                                                         9
Table 2.1: Threshold for ProcurementMethods and Pnor Review....................................................
Table 1.1: Specific Criteria for Sub-project Selection..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                        19



                                                    ANNEXES

Annex 1: Criteria and Processfor SelectingEligibleSub-projects                                     ..............................................        9
Annex 2: FiduciaryAspects      ...........................................................................................................              11
        1.    Financial Management Arrangements                      .......................................................................            11
       2.     ProcurementArrangements               .......................................................................................             16
Annex 3: Environmentaland Social Guidelines                       ..........................................................................            20


                                PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET




                   On-Farm Water Management            Environmental Category: B
                   Project (NWFP OFWMP) and
                   Second North West Frontier
                   Province Community
                   InfrastructureProject (Second




                                                                     Department o f Irrigation and Power,




                                                                                        .Yes    o N o
Havethese been approvedby Bank management?                                              .Yes    oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought ffom the Board?                             oYes   .No




The On-Farm Water Management Project and the Second NWFPCommunity Infrastructure Projects are
beingrestructuredto add anew objective and associated components to the existingproject inresponse to
unusual natural disasters the Province experienced inthe last few months, namely, floods and earthquake.
The project will assist the Government ofNWFP (GoNWFP) to implementan emergency rehabilitation
program aimed at restoring vital economic and social infi-astructure damaged, or destroyedby the
earthquake of October 2005, and the flooding insummer o f 2005. It will strengthen and support the
safety net system andhelppart o f the millions o f people displacedby the earthquake and the floods to
reestablishthemselves andresume a normal life. The performance o f the project would be measured by
how well the GoNWFPis able to restore the damaged infrastructureto stimulate a return of economic
activity to normalcy, restore and improve basic social services such as drinkingwater, health, education
andhousing and, restore and improve livelihoods ofthe affected people.

The projects are restructuredto carry out modifiedand additional project activities. Dueto the
inadequacy o f the original Credit amount to cover the cost o f the new activities, additional US$30 million
equivalent i s proposed from the following sources: (i)additional financing inthe amount o f US$10
millionequivalent from the NWFPOn-Farm Water Management Project; and (b) reallocation of US$20

millionequivalent fkom existingIDA Creditsto the Province (US$7.50 millionequivalent from the
NWFPOFWMproject (IDA Credit 3516-PAK) andUS$12.50 million equivalent from the Second
NWFPCommunity Infrastructure Project (0-11)(IDA Credit 3906-PAK)).
Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No

                                       For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan  [XI Credit    [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (USsm.): US$lO million equivalent
       Proposed terms: (for IDA Credit) 35 years to maturity with a 10-year grace period

                                       Financing Plan(US$m.)
                      Source                             Local          Foreign          Total
Borrower
IBFWIDA (additional financing)                           10.00                           10.00
IBRD/IDA(reallocation)                                   20.00                           20.00
Others
Total                                                    30.00                           30.00

A.       INTRODUCTION

1.      This ProjectPaper seeks the approval ofthe ExecutiveDirectors to provide additional IDA
financing o f SDR 6.9 million (US$lO million equivalent) and, the approval to reallocate SDR13.8
(US$20 millionequivalent) from existing IDA Credits to the Province (US$7.50 million equivalent from
theNWFP OFWMproject (IDA Credit 3516-PAK) andUS$12.50 millionequivalent fromthe Second
NWFPCommunity InfrastructureProject (IDACredit 3906-PAK)).'
2.      The proposedadditional credit and the reallocated amount would help finance the costs associated
withthe new activities that include, (i) ofbreaches incanal embankments, removal of debris
                                           repairs
deposited inthe canal prisms and repair o f control structures, drainage structures and water storage
infrastructure; (ii) reconstruction andor repairs of damaged roads, culverts andbridges; (iii) and/or
                                                                                                 repair
reconstruction o f public buildings such as schools, health facilities andbuildings; (iv) repair o f damaged
drinlungwater supplyand sanitation systems; and (v) assisting households andfamilies to reestablish
their livelihoodbyhelpinginthe reconstructionof their houses, restartingtheir agricultural activities by
providing agricultural technology packages, restoclung their livestock devastated by the floods and
earthquake and providing livelihood support to households and individuals affectedby the disaster.
3.      There would be no change to the ongoing project activities. The social mobilization activity o f the
project i s completed by forming the plannednumbers o f farmer organizations (FOs) and Federation o f
Water users Associations (FWUAs) and, all contracts for plannedcivil works have been awarded and are
under construction, with expected completion date o f June 2005. The undisbursedportion of the credit,
less the amount proposed for reallocation, i s fully committed and will be disbursed as construction of civil
works already contracted out progresses. The new project activities will be implementedparallel to the
ongoing activities with the involvement of provincial line departments and local governments.

B.       BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

1.       ProjectDataandPerformance

NWFP OFWMProject
4.      The NWFPOFWMproject was approvedbythe BoardonJune 12,2001 with a credit amount o f
SDR16.6 million(US$21.35 equivalent) and became effective onNovember 14,2001. The objective o f
the project i s to reduce ruralpoverty throughincreased agricultural production leadingto increased farm
incomes. This objective will be achievedby (a) improving the reliability, efficiency and equity o f
distribution o f available irrigation water, (b) increasing on-farm water use efficiency, and (c) enhancing
long-term financial sustainability o f the irrigation system by supporting the Government's effort to foster
self-sustainingfarmer organizations.
5.      To achieve this objective, the project has the following major components: (a) community
development and support program to promote formation o f FOs at the distributaryhanal levelto enable
themto participate insustainable management andoperation andmaintenance (O&M) o fthe irrigation
system; (b) distributary-level, watercourse and on-farm improvement ;(c) local/minor irrigation scheme
development where perennial/seasonal flows are tapped to increase the water capturedform the source
andreduce losses inthe main delivery channel supplyingwater to the service area and, (d) project
management support to provide assistance inproject supervision, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management and procurement. Key performance indicators include increase inproductivity through
cropping intensity andyield increase, reduction inrural poverty through an increase infarm incomes and,
development o f effective FOs/FWUAs that have the capacity to manage the irrigationsystem.

~




  Inthepackage presented to the BoardonOctober 25,2005, itwas reportedthat US$22.5 millionwillbe
reallocated from CIP I1project to NWFP Emergency RehabilitationProject. The amount reallocated for this
purpose from CIP IIinthis package is US$12.5 million and approval for the remaining US$l0 million is being
sought from the Board.

6.       As stipulated inthe ProjectAppraisal Document, the first two years were mainly focused on
completing preparations, particularly, formation o f farmer organizations and the necessary institutions for
full-scale implementation. This took muchlonger than anticipatedduringimplementation. The delay in
the formation o f the farmer organizations further delayed the identification o f distributaries and
minor/small irrigation schemes. This delayed the planning for system improvement (watercourse
improvement, distributary improvement, branch canal system improvement, and local/minor scheme
improvement), since plans have to beprepared based on farmers needs and implementation has to be
approved and supervisedby farmers' representatives. Because o f these initial delays, project
implementation was rated "unsatisfactory" at early stage o f the project.

7.       Since the mid-termreview inMarch2004, the project development objective and implementation
progress has beenrated "satisfactory". The GoNWFP took the necessary and agreed actions and the
project i s now on track. Transfer o f management to the six FOsi s fully implemented. A total o f 16
FWUAare formed andthey aremanagingvarious kmds ofsystemimprovement schemes. Civilworks
contracts for 53 schemes (minoddistributary improvements) belongingto FOsEWUAs have been
awarded and are under construction. According to the revisedplan, the project management team intends
to complete all civil works before June 2005, with the exception o f schemes inFATA and NorthernAreas
that are snow-bound and earthquake-hit.
8.       The undisbursedbalance o f the project i s about US$16million. A saving o f about US$7.5 million
equivalent i s expected at project closing on June 30,2006 and this is the amount to be reallocated for the
restructured andnewproject activities. Differences inunit cost estimates at the time o f appraisal and at
the time of contract award is the source ofthe savings. The appraisal estimates aremuchhigherbecause
larger and more costly schemes were assumedto be carried out by farmers. However, the schemes
selected for improvement by farmers now are much smaller than originally envisaged, thus less costly.
The Government of NWFP,recognizing the potential savings inthe project and the massive
reconstruction andrehabilitation task ahead due to the severe floods and earthquake damage, has
requested the Bank to reallocate the savings for the restructuredproject activities.
9.       There are no fiduciary or safeguard issues and there i s compliance with credit covenants.
NWFP Second Community Infrastructure Project (CIP-II)
10.      The main objective o f the CIP-I1i s to promote the well beingo f low income communities o f
NWFPby: (i)      supporting investmentsincommunity development activities, basic services and small
scale productive infrastructure; and (ii)  strengthening capacity at the new devolved local government and
community levels, to plan and deliver such services and infrastructure. The project became effective on
September 3,2004 andits Credit Closing Date is December 31,2009. The amount disbursedto date i s
about USSl.8 million, out o f the original credit o f US$38 million. A significant amount o f the credit i s
expected to be disbursed towards the later part of the project life since the first 2-3 years will be devoted
mainly towards social mobilization and strengthening o f local governments. The government wants to use
part o f the proceeds o f the credit that will not be needed inthe next 2-3 years to meet the emergency
requirementso f the disasters. The Government has therefore requested that an amount o fUS$12.5 million
bereallocated, is 35% ofthe original credit amount. While the development objectives ofthe project
remains the same, intermediateresults would be revised taking into account the reduction inthe amount
o f fundingthat will go towards the new project activities.
11.      There are no fiduciaryor safeguard issues and there is compliance with credit covenants.

2.        The Earthquake and Flood Disasters

12.     Earthquake. The recent earthquake o f October 8" resultedinwidespread damage infive districts
(Abbotabad, Mansehra, Battagram, Kohistan, and Shangla) o f the NorthWest Frontier Province (NWFP),
as described inthe Memorandumto the President (para. 4).




                                                        2

13.     Floods. DuringFebruary-March 2005, the NWFPexperienced unusually heavy rains and
snowfall. InNathiagali area, itrained and snowed for I7and I 5 days inthe months of January and
February 2005, respectively. Rainfall amountedto 558 mminDir and 614 mminKalam inthese few
days. This heavy rain and snowfall caused flooding o frivers, landslides, inundation of agricultural lands,
destruction o fprivate and public buildings, loss o f human and cattle lives, and destruction o froads,
irrigationchannels and seepage drains, and telephone and electricity networks.With the advent o f
summer season and as the temperature increased inthe northern areas during the months o f June and July
2005, large scale melting o f accumulated snow on the top of mountains caused very highfloods in the
rivers Indus, Kabul and Swat. Again, several districts of the province suffered damage to public and
private property. Whereas damage was witnessed inall the 24 districts o f the province, the Provincial
Relief Commissioner declared the following districts as most affected - Chitral, Dir Upper, Dir Lower,
Swat, Shangla, Abottabad, Mansehra, Battagram, Kohistan, Peshawar, Nowshera, Charsadda, and D.I.
Khan. Iti s worth mentioning that five districts affectedby the heavy snowfall, rainfall and floods were
also hitby the earthquake.
14.     The damages causedby floods were also extensive. Humandeaths inall the 24 districts o f the
province were 432 and the number o f injured641. Houses totally destroyed numbered 29,260 while those
partiallydamaged were 105,600. Cattle and goats killedwere 2,230 and 10,000 respectively. Landslides
caused complete or partial washing away or collapse o fretaining andbreast walls, bridges, culverts and
causeways. A total of 588 roads were reporteddamaged in20 districts. The irrigationand drainage
infrastructure reportedas damaged consisted o f 284 flood protection sites, 56 government canals, and 7
civil canals. Other than the roads and canals, the reportedflood damages consist o f government office
buildings,schoolbuildings,healthbuildingsandwater supply schemes.

C.      PROPOSEDCHANGES

15.     A newPart Z: Emergency Floodand Earthquake Recovery andMitigation Programwouldbe
added to the NWFPOn-Farm Water Management andNWFPCIP I1Projects. The main objective o f the
restructuredproject activity and the associated component activities i s to assist the GoNWFP in
implementing a program to restore vital economic and social infrastructure damaged by the earthquake o f
October 2005 and flooding insummer 2005. The activities o f the restructured projects would be mainly
carried out inthe five earthquake hit districts, but the other eight flood hit districts will also be covered.
The rehabilitation andreconstruction will include all economic and social sectors such as health,
education, agriculture, irrigation, roads, power, communications, as well as safety net measures that are
targeted at households who lost properties and livelihoods. The additional activities o f the restructured
projects will include:
16.     Restoration o f Economic and Social Infrastructure. This activity would include, among others:

        e        Restoration of roads: reconstruction and/or repairs o fdamaged roadembankments,
                 pavements, culverts, bridges, retainingwalls, and other ancillary works. Whereas the
                 reconstruction o froads infrastructure would be o f the same standard as existed prior to
                 the damage, the reconstructedcross-drainage culverts could allow for larger flows where
                 needed;

        e        Repair and/or reconstruction ofpublic buildings: reconstruction o fresidential andnon-
                 residential public buildingincludingschools, health facilities and buildings,as well as
                 repairs o f damaged boundary walls, rooms, sanitary facilities, and other ancillary works
                 causedby flood and earthquake. Repairs and/or replacement o f basic furniture and
                 fixtures may also be carried out;

        e       Repair and/or reconstruction of water supply schemes: repairs to damaged pipelines,
                 pumpingequipment, and other ancillary works; and




                                                       3

         0         Restoration of irrigation canals: repairs o fbreaches incanal embankments, removal o f
                   debris deposited inthe canal prisms, control structures, canal cross drainage structures
                   and outlet structures and water storage infrastructure.
 17.    Strengtheningof theSafety Nets.This component would support cashtransfers and in-lund
assistanceto the earthquake affected communities and households andthis could involve providing grants
to individuals and households, based on eligibility criteria that will be agreed with the Government. As
part o fthe rehabilitation andreconstruction efforts cash transfer schemes have an important role in
initiatingthe process o f rebuilding livelihoods inthe affected areas. While it i s anticipatedthat longer
term support inthe form o f credit schemes and public works will be essential for employment and income
generation, the cash transfer i s a necessary first phase o f support. Duringthis initial period as the
experience inother countries (such as those affectedby the Asian tsunami) has shown, cash grants may
also helpregenerate local economies by creatingpurchasing power inaffected areas. The choice o f cash
transfer i sjustified on various grounds. Specifically, it: (i)aids the households to make their own choice
o f addressing the most vital needs to mitigate their immediate vulnerabilities, and as such, is superior to
any in-kindtransfer; (ii)  addressesthe needs o fthose who may be unable to participate inalternate safety
net programs like public works or those not yet equippedto use other forms o f livelihood support like
credit and inputsat this stage; and (iii) serves to infise spendingpower incommunities which will inturn
reviveeconomic activity inthese areas.
18.     The delivery o f these grants will be designedkeeping inmindtwo broadprinciples: (i) that    ensure
the assistanceis disbursed expeditiously to the intendedbeneficiaries while ensuringthat the institutional
arrangements are inplace to minimizethe risks o f mis-targeting and duplication; and (ii)     The distribution
o f benefits will take into account the scale o f impact inthe different communities through the needs
assessment, consultation with stakeholders, and other diagnostic tools available from statistical agencies
inthe country. Thiswill greatly assistinprioritizingover communitiesand estimatingbudgetaryneeds.
Furthermore, a combination o f community-wide targeting and individualtargeting will be necessary as
guided by the diagnostic assessments. The Safety Nets component will also support the distribution o f
packages o f agricultural inputsand technologies for the next cropping season. Farmers who cultivate less
than a hectare o f land and that have lost crops or whose landhave been damaged, as well as those who
lost animals will benefit from the agricultural packages.
19.     A waiver ofOP 12.00(Disbursements) and OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance) is required
to allow use o f IDA for cash grants including livelihood support. Managementhas granted this waiver.
The operationalprocedures, eligibility criteria anddelivery mechanisms, meetinghightransparency and
accountability standards, against which cash grants and other livelihood support grants will be delivered
to the targeted households, shall be definedand agreed withthe Government before disbursements can be
made from the Credit for these activities.
20.     ProjectManagementandMonitoringSupport. This component will finance project management
andmonitoring. A Project Coordination and MonitoringUnit (PCMU) would be established inthe
Planning and Development Department o f the Provincial Government and each district will designate its
Executive District Officer (Planning and Finance) (ED0(P&F)) as the focal point, to beresponsible for
day-to-day follow up o f project activity. This component would provide support to the PCMU and district
governments by financing staff recruitment and incremental operating costs, as needed.



                                 Components                              I    Amountinmillion             I
                                                                                                          I

                                                                         I    US$         I PakRuuee      I
     -Restoration   o f Economic and Social Infrastructure                          13.5              810
      Strengthening of Safety Net                                                   13.5              810
      Project Management and implementation Support                                  3.O              180
                                    Total                                           30.0             1800




                                                       4

 21.     Project costs are given inthe Table-1. Out o f the total cost of US$30 million, US$10 million i s
 expected from additional financing to be approved by the ExecutiveBoard and the remainingUS$20
millionwill be reallocation from ongoing projects. The savings from the OFWMproject, estimatedat
US$7.5 million, will be reallocatedtowards the activities o f the restructuredproject, which i s about 35%
 o f the original credit amount. Another US$12.5 millionwill be reallocatedfrom the CIP-I1Project.
Retroactive financing up to 20% of the proposed financing couldbe allowed inaccordance with the
Bank's operational policy on retroactive finance

D.        CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

 22.     The World Bank Group's 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistanlaidout a
program o f support for Pakistan's I-PRSP. The CAS specified the instrumentsbest suited to pursue the
 strategy as follows: (i) policy based fast disbursinglendingto pursuethe governance and sectoralreform
agenda; (ii)  programmatic sector and investment lendingto support implementation o f reforms in
economic management and governance (e.g., technical assistanceto the central bank and reforms intax
administration and public financial management); social infrastructure and delivery systems for education
and health; and community infrastructure services (includingwater management) at all levels o f
governments; and (iii)    analytical work and other non-lending services to monitor developments inthe
areas o f low engagement and to encourage reforms.
23.      The CAS Progress Report, which was presentedto the BoardonApril 20,2004, confirms that the
strategy set out inthe 2002 CAS remains valid inlight o f the fullPRSP andproposes an extension o f this
strategy untilthe next CAS i s prepared. The report pointed out the persistence o f highlevel o f poverty in
spite o f improvement ingrowthperformance and proposes to assistthe government to address poverty,
particularly, vulnerable groups o f the society through improvement o f safety nets and supporting
equitable growth. Based on the government's strongprogress inimplementing reforms and its desire to
reduce poverty, the programo f Bank support outlined inthe CAS i s expanded and fully aligned with the
strategy. The restructuredproject activities describedabove are consistent withthe expanded CAS, which
aims to address poverty and vulnerability.

E.        APPRAISALOFTHE NEWACTIVITIES

1.        Technical

24.      The appraisal below isbasedon field visits and extensive discussions with the GoNWFP. The
Bank deployed a mission to take stock o f the damage causedby the rain and snow storm, ascertain views
o f the various stakeholders on ways and means to repair the damage. Similar missions have visited the
earthquake affected areas for preliminary damage assessment immediately after the October 8,2005.
25.      The Bank has extensive experience supporting flood and drought damage restoration operations in
Pakistan. It has so far supported five such emergency operations -four o fthem relating to flood damage
restoration and one to drought emergency relief assistance (DERA).These projects were successful in
meetingtheir objectives ofrestoring infrastructure and assisting ineconomic recovery. Factors
contributing to successful implementation were: (i)   flexible and demand driven designs; (ii) high
                                                                                                regular
level oversight byprovincial and federal authorities; (iii) fielding o f supervisory and implementation
                                                            early
assistance consultants; (iv) enforcement o f performance based criteria for eligibility o f implementing
agencies to undertake incremental work; (v) enforcement o f discipline inprocurement planning and
contract management; and (vi) mid-termreviews with flexibility to introduce required changes.
26.      Onthe other hand, the mainconstraints experienced were: (i) inreleasingo f funds to field
                                                                         delays
offices to pre-finance project expenditures: (ii) delays insubmission o f consolidated audit reports for
multiple implementing agencies; (iii)   frequent turn over o fProvincial and District Coordinators; and (iv)
non-familiarity o f staff of some o f the implementing agencies with IDA and other donors procurement
and disbursement procedures and inadequate attention to contract management. The Bank would draw




                                                      5

upon its past experience as mentioned above for assisting GoNWFP inthe implementation o f the
additional activities o f the restructuredproject.
27.      The Bank's experience insupporting earthquake emergency rehabilitationoperations comes from
working with government across regions, more recently inGujrat and MaharashtrainIndia, Turkey, Iran,
Colombia and El Salvador to mention a few. The Bank would draw upon its past experience for assisting
GoNWFP inthe implementation o f the activities of the proposedemergency assistance.
28.      The line departments and participating local governments have experience inplanning and
executing civil works. Local governments have been engaged inthe implementation o f Bank-assisted
Drought EmergencyRehabilitation project where funds were directly transferredto the districts and they
carry out the planning, contracting and supervision o f works independently. Nonetheless, it has been
repeatedly observed that preparation of design andthe necessary documents for works i s relatively weak
andrequires strengthening at boththe provincial and district level.

2.       Institutional

29.      The GoNWFP is committed to theproposedactivity underthe restructuredproject. Under the
leadership o f the Planning and Development Department (P&DD), concerned departments have been
involved inthe preparation and appraisal o f the new activities. Regardinginstitutional arrangement for
implementation, it i s agreed that a new Project Coordination and MonitoringUnit (PCMU) would be set
upunderP&DD to assumeresponsibility for day-to-day follow up,coordination andmonitoringof
implementation and, to organize technical assistanceas needed. A Provincial Steering Committee (PSC)
headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), would oversee the project by providingpolicy
guidelines, approving overall annualbudgets and implementationplans, and ensuringvertical and
horizontal coordination for smooth implementation o f the project. Members of the PSC would be the
Secretaries of the departments o f Finance, Planning and Development, Agriculture & Livestock, Works
and Services, IrrigationandPower, Social Welfare, and any other department which the ACS, P&DD
mightlike to co-opt. GoNWFP will appoint a full-time Project Coordinator (PC)'.
30.      District governments would be the lead implementing agencies for this project. District
Coordination Committee (DCC) headedby the DistrictNazim (Co-chaired by DCO), would be
established ineach district to oversee the implementation o f the project activities. Private sector activities
such as consultants, construction firms, NGOs will be usedas appropriateto complement the government
departments' capacity.
3 1.     Technical Assistance. Giventhe multitudeofactivities involved, a small multi-disciplinary team
o f consultants as well as NGOswould assist the coordinating and implementing agencies. The
consultants would be responsible for: (i)       assisting PCMU and district governments with overall
coordination, sub-project selection andpreparation, supervision andprogress reporting; (ii)            providing
assistance to project authorities insub-project preparation, PC-Ipreparationand procurement; (iii)
assisting inmonitoringprogress, and certifying payments; (iv) preparing materialrequired for mid-term
review o f sub-project portfolios; and (v) assisting PC inthe preparation of the project completion report
32.     Monitoringand Supervision.PCMUwould monitor and supervise implementation ofproject
activities through a system o freporting which would include submission o f monthly and/or quarterly and
annual progress reports, and spot-checking o f works by its team o f experts (or consultants). PCMU's role
would be that of a facilitator who would helpremovebottlenecks and advise on corrective measures
where necessary. Progress reports wouldbe initiatedby each implementing department (EDOs and

* The government established an Earthquake Reconstruction and RehabilitationAuthority (ERRA) soon after the
earthquake. The ERRA is an apex body at the federal level to lead and coordinate the reconstruction and
rehabilitation effort. Itsrole and responsibilities as well as detailed implementation mechanisms are currently being
worked out. At present, it i s not implementingany earthquake related projects at the provincial and district levels.
The government has indicated that untilERR4is fully operational existinginstitutional arrangements already in
place under the said project (s) will be used for implementation o f the earthquake related interventions and activities.


                                                             6

IrrigationEngineers) and consolidated at the district level by the DCO and at the provincial level by the
PC. Duringthe start-up phase o f the project, first six months, progress reporting would be on monthly
basis. Thereafter, a quarterly reporting regime would be adopted. A uniformprogress-reporting format
focusing on physical and financial progress and outcomes achieved would be adopted. The PC and DCOs
would agree on a set o f outcome indicators for each type o f intervention. Progress reports would be
shared with IDA within one month o f the end o f the reportingperiodandreviewedby the PSC on a
regular basis

3.        FiduciaryAspects

33.      FinancialManagement: Consistent with the implementation arrangement above, detailed
financial and procurement arrangement i s agreed with the Government and these are discussed inAnnex
2.The NWFP provincial financial accountability assessment (PFAA) was finalized inJanuary 2004 and
revealed that there i s increased assurance that the Bank and other donor funds would be used for their
intendedpurposes. For example, the provincial financial and fiscal data reconciliation levels have reached
a higho f 97%, 96%,     loo%,  and 100% respectively for expenditures, receipts, suspenseaccounts, and
inter-governmental accounts. While internal audit functions have yet to mature, the province i s well
poisedto implement this emergency project under financial management arrangements that could be
satisfactory and the financial management riski s rated `low'.
34.      Procurement:Procurement arrangements are described inAnnex 2.Most provincialline
departments and district governments are involved inthe implementation of Bank-supported projects,
therefore, staffare generally conversant with the systems and procedures followed for procurement.
However, inorder to strengthen the procurement and implementation capacities of the implementing
entities, particularly those with limitedexperience inBank-financed procurement, a procurement focal
person shall be located within the PCMU. The focal person shall be assisted by the services o fthe
planning & supervision consultants. The consultants will assist all implementing agencies incarrying out
procurement under the project, includingprocurement planning and monitoring, design o frestoration
works, preparationo fbiddingdocuments, bid evaluations and contract award. The Bank will conduct
procurement training workshops at the start and duringthe implementation o f the project, for key
procurement staff o f all the implementing agencies inorder to improve and update their knowledge o f the
Bank`s procurement procedures.

4.       Environmentaland SocialAspect

35.      The proposedenvironment and social aspects are discussed inAnnex 3. The additional activities
o f the restructuredproject involves mainly beneficial reconstruction andrestoration works o f irrigation
schemes, water supply schemes, roads, bridges, culverts and residentialhouses that have low and
manageable environmental impact and therefore i s classified as Category "B" under the Bank's OP 4.01
similar to the original project. The main purpose o f the additional project activities is to assist the
GoNWFP to respondto the damages caused by the recent floods and earthquake through measures aimed
at restoring economic and social infrastructure and strengthening o f safety nets.
36.      Under the original project, a general reviewo fthe potential environmental and social issues was
conducted. The rapid screening and scoping exercise revealed no major issues which couldnot be
mitigated duringproject implementation. Since specific sites and interventions were not decided for
project activities, it was decided that environmental and social issues would form an integral part of the
overall framework for identifying, preparing and monitoring subprojects (FIPMSP). Accordingly, an
overall FIPMSPthat addressesenvironmental and social issues was developed bythe GoNWFP and
project implementation has been guided by the framework to date. The framework provides a clear road
map, with clear andmeasurable screening criteria, a transparent process andprocedures, adequate
technical and management and financial resources, as well as a timetable and a monitoring systembefore
project activities are initiated.




                                                      7

37.      Review of the FIPMSPindicates that the framework i s broad enough to address environmental and
social issues that could arise from the implementation of the newproject activities. Since Project activities
will be applicable to specific geographic areas affectedby the floods and earthquake, Social Assessment
will be carried out to identifythe affected communities/ persons, the types o finterventions requiredand
identify any Safeguard Policies that may be triggered, andprovide mitigationmeasures (ifrequired).
Accordingly, the FIPMSP will be reviewed by the Government and applied where required.

F.        EXPECTED OUTCOMES

38.      The expected outcomes o fthe additional components would beto: (i) the flood damaged
                                                                                return
irrigation and drainage infrastructure to operational conditions guarantying water conveyance to farmers;
(ii) andmakeoperationalwatersupplyandsanitationsystemssothatruralandurbancommunities
     repair
inthe floodandearthquake affectedareas canhave accessimprovedcleandrinkingwater; (iii) and          repair
restore roads, bridges, culverts, retainingwalls, etc., to open up areas that have berenderedinaccessible
bythe disasters and, (iv) provide livelihood support to households and individuals. The key outcome
indicatorsto be measuredinclude, (i)    providing reliable water supply to about 10,000 ha o f command area
serving at least 20,000 farm families; (ii)  repairing at least 150kmo f roads and facilitating the flow o f
relief andreconstructionmaterials and, goods and products to, and from the affected areas; (iii)    restoring
water supply systems that would provide safe drinkingwater for 12,000 families; and (iv) provide
livelihoodsupport for 50,000 farm families inthe form o f agricultural technology packages that include
seeds, fertilizer and other support services for the Rabi andKharifseasons. The outcome indicators will
be measured by PCMU and close collaboration with the line departments and local governments.

G.        BENEFITSAND RISKS

39.      Several benefits are expected to accrue from the project, namely: (i) restoration o f damaged roads
would result inoverall accessibility o f otherwise totally isolatedareas, quicker delivery o freconstruction
materials, quicker delivery o f agricultural produce to consumers inurban areas and consumer itemsto
rural area, and savings intravel time; (ii)  restoration of health and educationbuildingswould improve
people's access to health and education; (iii)   repairs to water supply systems would reduce incidence of
disease; (iv) repairedcanal irrigation systems would yield more water to the farmer leading to increased
agricultural productivity; and (v) provisiono f assistance would improve the quality o f life o f the affected
people.
40.      There are two major risks, which emerge from the fact that the project would be able to restore
only a part o f the damage that has occurred, and, therefore, there would be competing demands on the
available funding. The first riski s that influential communities may end up beingthe major beneficiaries
o f the interventions. Well-articulated selection criteria and transparency inthe decision malungprocess o f
the DCC will addressthis risk.Second, because it is an emergency operation requiringlarge quantities of
work to be done ina short periodo f time, the implementingagencies may become overburdenedresulting
indelay andpoor quality ofwork. Private sector construction firms' capacity couldalsobelimitedand
their number limitedrelative to the largereconstructionandrestorationworks needed. To mitigatethe
risk,the PC office willretain ateam ofconsultants that will provide supportto localgovernmentsandline
departments, encourage and support line departments to buildtheir capacities and assist private sector
participation inclose collaboration with concerned government agencies.

H.       FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

41.      US$10 million equivalent would be provided as a credit with a 35 years maturity, including 10
years grace, a service charge o f 0.75 percent, and commitment fee not to exceed 0.5 percent. Retroactive
financing up to 20% o f the proposed financing couldbe allowed inaccordance with the Bank's
operationalpolicy onretroactive finance.
42.      There areno effectiveness conditions. The proposedcomponent complies with all Bankpolicies.



                                                        8

              A n n e x 1: Criteria and Process for Selecting Eligible Sub-Projects.

1.      Criteria and Process for Selecting Eligible Sub-Projects. The general eligibility criteria for the
sub-projects are listed inTable 1.1. The main criteria are that sub-projects mustbe attributable to
damage causedby earthquake and the flooding o f 2005.

                            Table 1.1: Specific Criteria for Sub-project Selection
      Restoration o f Roads                 0 Sub-projects mustbe selected from those reported
                                              bythe districtadministration.
                                            0 Reconstructiodrepairs o f the major bridgesshould
                                              get priority
                                            0 Roads that are vital for economic activities such as
                                              those used for transporting consumable goods,
                                              agtlcultural produce etc. should be givenpreference.
                                            0 Roads that benefit more population should get
                                              priority.
                                            0 Roads that pose riskto plying traffic.
      Repair and/or Reconstruction            Completely destroyed buildingsshould be given
      o f GO Buildings                        priority over partially damaged buildings.
                                            0 Vital basic damaged furniture would be repairedor
                                              redacedinthe restoredbuildings.
      Repair andor Reconstruction           0 Completely destroyed schools should be given
      o f Schools                             priority.
                                            0 Vital basic damaged furniture and teaching
                                              equipmentwould berepairedor replacedinthe
                                              restored schools.
      Repair and/or Reconstruction          0 Completely destroyeddispensaries particularly in
      o f HealthBuildings                     rural areas shouldbe givenpriority.
                                            0 Vital basic damaged furniture and equipment should
                                              berepairedor replaced inthe restored
                                              hospital/dispensary .
      ~
      Repair o f Water Supply                 All water supply schemesreported damagedwould
       Schemes                                berestoredto the pre-unusual event condition.
                                            0 Those restoration works for schemes where the
                                              outages are frequent would be implemented on
                                              priority basis.
      IrrigationCanals                      0 Government canals reported damaged shall be
                                              restoredto the pre-unusual event condition. No civil
                                              canals will berehabilitated, except inthe five
                                              earthquake hit districts.

2.      Process of Sub-project Selection. The steps inthe process of implementing the Component
would be, as follows:


       (1)       The respective EDOs ineach district would prepare lists o f sub-projects to be
                 implemented invarious sectors to match the district fimdingallocations givenby PSC,
                 and submitthe lists to the DCC, withjustification, for approval. This should be prepared
                 inclose consultationwithTMAs andUnionCouncils. A copy ofthislist willbe sentto
                the PCMU.



                                                    9

        (ii)    The DCC would ensure that the selection of sub-projects hasbeenmade based on the
                eligibility criteria and reflects the TMA and district priority. The DCC also ensures that
                the cost estimates are reasonable and can be met through the district allocation.

       (iii)    After the list approvedbythe DCC, ED0planning andFinance, withthe respective
                EDOs andED0W&S will prepare a PC-1 for the district andresubmit for DCC
                approval. When the PC-1 i s approved, a copy will be sent to the PCMUfor review and
                approval by the PSC. Inthe meantime, preparations such as design andbidding
                documents will be carried out inparallel andbiddingdocuments will be issued after
                approval by PSC i s communicated to the DCO.

       (iv)     The PSC will review and approve, or seek clarification andmodifications on district PC-1
                7 days after receivingthe request. Ifthere i s no response within 7 days the DCO will
                instruct the issuance o fbids and the PCMU will sendthe necessary fundingto the district.

        (v)     After the first year o f the implementation, a mid-termreview would be carried out and
                based on the performances o f districts, funds that are not committed by this date will be
                reallocatedto districts that have fully committed their allocation. Therefore, cut-off date
                for award of all contracts under this project i s one year from effectiveness o f the project.

3.      BankReview of the Sub-project Portfolio. IDAwould be providedwiththe final lists ofthe
sub-projects and the work plans reviewedby PSC. IDA would review the lists o f the sub-projects and the
work plans. The purpose o fthe review would be to assure that eligibility criteria for selection of sub-
projects have been adhered. IDA no-objection i s not required,except as stipulatedinthe section under
procurement.




                                                      10

                                       Annex 2: FiduciaryAspects

1.        FinancialManagementArrangements

ProvincialIssues

1.       Inthe areaoffinancial management, NWFPhasbecome amostreformingprovince inPakistan
that has adopted the New Accounting Model usingthe new Chart o f Accounts not only for the provincial
government but also for all the province's 24 district governments. It follows therefore that since the
entire province, excepting the TMAs andUnionCouncils, are on the same accounting andreporting
system and structure, the issue o f lapses inaggregation and consolidation o f accounts for all the districts
as well as the province, as has been the case throughout Palustan since the devolution, would not serve as
a bottleneck inthe assuranceo f timeliness, reliability, comparability and accuracy o f the financial
statements of the project.

2.       The NWFPprovincial financial accountability assessment(PFAA), which was finalized on
January 15,2004, did however indicate some weaknesses inthe fiduciary management area, but since the
action plans drawn and agreed between the Bank and the Province have supported the improvement and
streamliningo f the financial management arrangements inthe province, there is increased assurance that
the Bank and other donor funds would be used for their intendedpurposes. For example, the provincial
financial and fiscal data reconciliation levels have reached a higho f 97%, 96%, loo%, and 100%
respectively for expenditures, receipts, suspenseaccounts, and inter-governmental accounts. While
internal audit fimctions have yet to mature inthe province, the provincial government has since notified
the appointmentofinternal auditors for all its 19 departments at the provincialgovernment level. This is
indicative o f a reform conscious province since other provinces have yet to initiate actions inthat
direction. Inaddition, the province has the largest number o fproductive PIFRA (Project to Uniform
Financial Reporting and Auditing) sites and i s geared to complete the connectivity to all its 24 districts
within a span of 2 years. Withthis reformtrajectory inmind, the province i s well poisedto implement
this emergency projectunder financial management arrangements that couldbe satisfactory. Because of
the plannedincremental financial management staffing designed inthis project to support the emergency
nature o f the implementation requisites, the financial management riski s rated `Modest'.

ImplementationandInstitutionalArrangements

3.       The project will entail the implementation o f three key components: (i) restoration o f economic
and social infrastructure destroyedand damaged by floods and earthquake includingrestoration o froads;
repair and/or reconstruction o f buildings;repair o f water supply schemes and restoration o f irrigation
canals; (ii)strengthening o f the safety nets and disaster preparedness programs; and (iii)project
management and implementation support. Each component will have a few sub-components, which have
beenappropriately segregatedto address, ina well-focused manner, the specific emergencyrelatedneeds
o f the people o fNWFPwho suffered disasters arising fkom the outcome o f the recent floods and
earthquake as well as reinforce the neededdisaster preparedness ofthe population.

4.       There shall bePCMUestablished inthe P&DD at the Provincialgovernment level. Thisunit shall
oversee the day-to-day implementation and administrationo f the project under the general and specific
direction of PSC. The key participating agencies include the district governments, potentially Earthquake
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Authority (ERRA), irrigationdepartment, and NGOs. Eachdistrict
shall establish a DCC under the leadership o f the District Nazimor the DCO, and the ED0 (P&F) shall
serve as the Secretary of the Committee. This Committee shall establish the primary priority schemes and
programsthat the project would support. The PSC shall however be the final arbiter as to what schemes
and programs would qualify and enter in the program of works, goods and services, bearing inmindthe
pre-set criteria for eligibility.

                                                      11

5.       This project, which shall secure resources from two other Bank-financeprojects (NWFP On-
FarmWater Management and SecondNWFP Community Infrastructure Project) to a total tune o f
US$30million will require the signingo f a `Letter ofAgreement' (LOA)betweenthe IDA, the GoP and
the Provincial Government. The DCAs o f the two projects providingthe financing as well as the two
respective projects' Project Agreements shall be amended accordingly under a `Part Z' arrangement to
reflect the changed nature of the financing/disbursement categories. The `Part Z' shall capture the
requisite amendments inthe respective projects' DCAs and the Project Agreements o f the 2 projects and
shall specifically incorporate the new components, sub-components, activities and categories required to
support the achievement o f the objectives o f the new emergency project. The Part Z shall also authorize
the establishment and operation o f two separate Special Accounts (one for funds to be reallocated from
the OnFarmproject and the other for funds to be reallocated from the C P I1project) bothunder the
management o f the PCMU specified categories o f expenditurerequired to be made for the newproject.

6.       The IDA Credit allocation for this project would be disbursed over a two-year period to finance
eligible expenditures. The Special Accounts will be replenishedbased on Financial Management Reports
(FMRs)receivedby IDA fromthe PCMUon a quarterly basis. The initial deposit to the Special Account
shall be the equivalent o f six months estimated expenditure o f the project. With the benefit o f the
Country FinancingParameters, and due to the special emergency nature o f the project, the IDA shall
finance 100% (including taxes and duties) o f the newPart Z disbursement category.

Strengths and Weaknesses

7.       While financial management arrangements for flood related activities i s not new to the GoNWFP,
there has beenless experience inmanaging a financial management response to earthquake recovery
needs. While the inscribed financial management arrangements for this project may not have beentested
with the Planning andDevelopment Department (beingthe principalgovernment sponsoring agency for
the project), the province has satisfactorily implementeda complex arrangement under the Drought
Emergency andRecoveryAssistance (DERA)project. The demonstration o fthe satisfactory financial
management implementation capacity at the provincial level implicitly provides the inertia for this project
to be implementedwithout any significant fiduciary risks. The province o fNWFP, as mentioned earlier,
has reached a state o f financial management preparednessthat is increasinglybecoming an envy o f other
provinces inPakistan. This strength will be developed and fosteredunder this project. With the
introduction o f two qualified and experienced finance and accounting staff to support the project
implementation team, coupled with the regular monitoring o f the disbursements o f the revolving imprest
accounts, there i s the increasing assurancethat the funds allocated to the project will be utilizedfor
intendedpurposes, accounted for ina timely and accurate manner, andthat the expected outcomes would
be achieved.

FundsFlow, BudgetingandAccountingArrangements

8.       The governingprinciples for establishment o f a SpecialAccount, the transfer o f Credit proceeds
through the SBP to the nominated account of the project at the NBP, and the procedural arrangements for
accounting for Public Debtas provided for inthe Ministry o f Finance Circular o f 25 November 2002
relating to the maintenance and operation o frevolving fund accounts opened for IDA/IBRD/ADB
loandcredits as well as the updated Circular from the Ministryo fJune 6,2005, shall be observed for this
emergency project.

9.       Two separate and dedicated Special Accounts shall be established for the newproject at a
Peshawar Branch of the NBP and managed by the PCMU. Two signatories shall be identifiedfor
withdrawal o f eligible funds from the Special Accounts and for the signing o f the withdrawal applications
to be sent to IDA.

                                                      12

 10.      Dueto the special emergency nature ofthe activitiesto be financed for this project, the PCMU
 shall provide front-loading o f funds, on RevolvingImprest Account basis to each o f the 13 districts that
 would be directly implementingthe activities o f the project inthe districts. The PSC, having approved a
 scheme, activity, or program for implementation by eligible provincial departments and for each o f the13
 districts (or other districts that may qualify duringproject implementationperiod), would authorize the
PCMUto release the equivalent of funds from the relevant Special Account, based on the project
 expenditures for three months (on front-loaded basis), to the respective DCOs. Each DCO, inassociation
withthe ED0 (P&F) shallestablish and operate an Imprest BankAccount for the purpose at the local
branch o f the NBP inthe district headquarters. The Finance Department at the Provincial Capital shall
authorize the establishment o f the imprest accounts for each DCO. Havingreceivedthe confirmation that
the account has been established by the DCO at the district NBPbranch, the PCMU shall transfer the
equivalent o f 3 months' projectedexpenditures that would be incurred at the district level and paid for by
the DCO and the ED0 (P&F), based on the pre-agreed budget.

 11.      EachDCO shall assign an accounting officer3 who will assist inthe maintenance of the imprest
account and the rendering o f monthly accounts against the imprest fund inaccordance with the reporting
format that is consistent with the requirements o f the PCMU. The DCO shall ensure that the accounts are
renderedto the PCMU within 7 days o f the end o f each calendar month. H e shall sign the accounts as a
true and fair reflection of the state o f affairs o f the financial transactions o f the district, and shall ensure
that those accounts are renderedwith a certified copy o fthe Bank statement and all the expenditure
acquittances o f the imprestaccount. Incarrying out this task, the DCO shall be always be supportedby
the ED0 (P&F) who shall serve as a co-signatory to all disbursements from the Revolving Imprest
Account of the District.

 12.      The PCMU, upon receipt o f the certified statement o f the imprest account together with the bank
statement and the supporting expenditure acquittances, shall replenishthe imprest account from the
relevant Special Account to the extent o f the expenditures that have been vouched. This would bringthe
total allocatedimprestholdingo f the DCO to its original level. This level couldbe further enhanced,
basedon the projectedexpenditure pattern o f the district inthe succeeding period o f 3 months. The
rendered statements o f expenditure from the districts will, inter alia, form the basis for the PCMU to
prepare withdrawal applications against the credit inorder to replenishthe Special Account on a timely
basis.

13.      The funds releasedto the districts, it i s reiterated, would be expended under the authority o f the
DCOs through imprest accounts, butthe funds that may be allocated and approved for the activities o f
Provincial IrrigationDepartment (PID) will be duly authorized for expendingunder the administrative
authority o f the PID's Principal Accounting Officer (PAO). However, there shall not be established an
Imprest Account for the PID. Rather, the PID, while responsible for initiating and coordinating all the
implementation activities approved for its assigned schemes and programs, the Department will utilize the
PCMU for making disbursements o f its eligible expendituresfrom the relevant Special Account heldwith
it. Thiswould obviatethe needto set upan accounting arrangement at the levelofthe PID for managing
an imprest account, and at the same time reduce the potential for proliferating imprest accounts for this
rather short duration project. All requests for payments from the PID shall be certificated with all
supporting documents andmustrelate to schemes, activities andprograms that had beenprior approved
bythe PSC.

14.      As regards NGOactivities to be financed under the program, the selectedNGOsand their
contractual fees shouldbe formally approved by the PSC. Upon certified delivery o f services accordingto


 Districts that do not have the staff to assign as Accounting Officer shall be entitledto secure the services o f an
appropriately competent person on short-term contract basis through the PCMU.

                                                           13

the agreed contract terms, which should be in conformance with Bankprocurement guidelines, the P C M U
willrelease payments to the contractedNGOsdirectly fromthe relevant Special Account heldwith it.

 15.     Inrespect of safetynet `Cash Grants' that maybeprovided to the earthquake affectedindividuals
and families, the operational procedures, eligibility criteria and delivery mechanisms, meeting high
transparency and accountability standards, against which Safety Net Grants will be delivered to the
targeted households, shall be defined and agreed with the Government before disbursements can be made
from the Credit for these activities. For this reason, Cash Grants have been provided under a separate and
distinct disbursement category.

 16.     Inrespect ofPCMU's other expenses, including incremental operating and staffing costs, support
technical assistance costs etc., a budget for the same shall be approved by the PSC, and the Planning and
Development Department would furnishthe authority to the PCMU. All such expenditures shall be paid
directly out o f the relevant Special Account by the PCMU.

 17.     Replenishment of the Special Accounts by the PCMU shalI be based on simplified FMRs. The
formats o f all these reports shall be made available to the PCMU, and the Bank FMstaff will provide the
required training on their use for disbursements from IDA.

Project's FinancialReporting

 18,     For all expenditures from the Special Account made for purposes o f the approved PCMU's
operating costs as well as expenditures made by DCOs (as per the return fromimprest accounts) and
technical assistance support, the PCMUshall provide, within 14 days o f the end of each calendar month, a
comprehensive statement o f expenditures ina format that accords with the government's reporting
requirements and that uses the pre-specified codes o f account based on the new chart o f accounts as
would have been agreed with the Accountant General o f NWFP (AG-NWFP) and the Finance and
Planning and Development Departments. This will ensure that the whole set of expenditures for the entire
project i s captured by the government inits monthly civil accounts duringany fiscal year. For this reason,
inter alia, the AG-NWFPwill arrange for the provision o f specific accounting codes for the project to use.

19.      The PCMU shall also provide quarterly FMRs to IDA for each of the Special Account activities
as well as a consolidatedReport for the whole project. The constituents o f these reports shall be as
follows: (a) Actual and Forecast Cash Flow Statement according to Components, Sub-components and
Activities; (b) Summary Statement o f Expenditures according to Categories; (c) Special Account
reconciliation Statement; (d) Physical Progress Report; and (e) Procurement Status Monitoring Report.
These reports shall be provided to IDA not later than four (4) weeks after the end o f each quarter - (a
reporting lag o f 4 weeks has been chosen inthe light of the short duration o f this project as well as the
emergency nature o f the project itself).

ExternalAudit

20.      Since separate auditing of the financial statements shall be carried principally of the PCMU for
the purpose o f this project, the PCMU shall be the key custodian of all the supporting documents related
to FMR-based withdrawals.

21.      The financial statements o fthe project will be audited annually by the Auditor General o f
Pakistanunder terms o f reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with acceptable standards o f
auditing. Audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA within six months (by December 31) o f
the end of the Government's fiscal year (which is June 30) or such other date as the IDA may agree. For
the purpose o f this project, there shall be separate financial statements linked to each of the two Credit
Identification Numbers as well as a ConsolidatedFinancial Statement for the entire project.

                                                        14

22.      The auditing and certification of the PCMU financial statements does not, as per normal
government auditing requirements, preclude the auditing o f district and provincial government
transactions relatedto the project by the Auditor General.

IncrementalFinancialManagementStaffing

23.      Intheabsenceofafinancialmanagementteamatthe to supportthe accounting, internalcontrol,
and financial reporting function o f the project at the PCMU, the project shall urgentlyestablish a financial
management cell at the PCMUwhose responsibilitieswill include: (a) the accounting for the budget
allocations to schemes and activities under each component, sub-component and activity; (b) the
monitoring o f disbursements against the budgets; (c) the provision o f monthly civil accounts reports
relating to project expenditures to the AGNWFP, with copies to the Finance andP&DDs o f the Province
inaccordance with government's ownreportingrequirements; (d) collation andaggregationofutilization
reports and the acquittances o f the project according to components, sub-components, activities and
disbursement categories; (e) submission o fwithdrawal applications to IDA for the eligible expenditures
under FMR-based disbursement method; (0maintaining the Special Accounts o f the Project; (g)
providing quarterly FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs) to IDA inaccordance with the format that
would be provided and agreed during appraisal; (h)preparation of annual financial statements in
accordance with the format to be agreed duringnegotiations, coordinating the audit thereof as well as the
project management's responses to the Audit Management Letter.

24.      Inthe light oftheenormity ofactivities that the project financial management teamwouldneedto
carry out to ensure the fiduciary arrangements are well catered for, andhavingregardto the paucity o f
adequate staff at the Planningand Development Department to support these arrangements, there will be a
need to contract intwo incremental staff to the PCMU. One o f the two shouldbe a qualified accountant
(at least a qualified member o f ICAP, I C M A or ACCA) and should be the project's Finance Manager.
He/She shouldbe supported by an experienced B.Com qualified personwho should also be contracted
from the market. Inaddition, the Department o f Planning and Development shall deploy two other
accounting staffwith goodbook-keepingknowledge and familiar withthe government's NAMandnew
Chart o f Accounts. One o f these two may be deployed to the project by the AGNWFP at the request o f
the Planning andDevelopmentDepartment.The two contractedfinance and accounting staff shallbe
remuneratedfrom the budget allocated to the PCMU. For the purpose o freinforcing internal control
principles and practices inthe management o f the project finances, there shouldbe a clear segregation of
duties o f the finance and accounting staff.

RequiredAction

25.      The immediaterequirement would be the establishment o f a PCMU and the sanctioning o f the
proposed financial management positions to be filled so that the team could initiate, plan and achieve a
state o freadiness to implement the project. The GoNWFP couldpre-finance the positions under some
form o fretroactive financing arrangement. The FMteam o fthe Bank can provide induction training to the
project's FMteam to spearheadthe implementation o f the proposedFMarrangements as a matter o f
urgency.

FinancialCovenants

26.      The traditional financial covenants as applicable to investment projects shall apply.




                                                      15

2.       ProcurementArrangements

InstitutionalCapacity


27.      The traditional financial covenants as applicable to investment projects shall apply.
The staff inthe districts, provincialdepartments of Irrigation and Power and Works and Services, have
implementedinthe past Bank financed projects, such as FloodDamage Restoration Projects, National
Drainage Program, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, and Family Health.

28.      Currently, various provincial departments ofNWFP including Irrigationand Power, Works and
Services, Local Government and RuralDevelopment and Agriculture are participating inseveral on-going
projects includingthe DERA,NWFP On-Farm Water Management, and NWFPCommunity
Infrastructure. Therefore, staff of these departments is generally conversant with the systems and
procedures to be followed for procurement inBank financed projects. However, the PCMUhas not yet
been formed, andprocurement capacity within the districts would widely vary. Hence, a formal capacity
assessmenthas not been done.
29.      Inorder to strengthentheprocurementandimplementationcapacities oftheimplementing
agencies, that will be involvedinimplementation of the project, andparticularly those who have limited
howledge and experience o f Bank financed procurement, it i s proposedthat a procurement focal person
shall be located within the PCMU. The focal person shall be assistedby the services o f the planning &
supervisionconsultancy firm andor individuals. The consultants will assist through the focal person all
implementingagencies incarrying out procurementunderthe project, includingprocurement planning
andmonitoring, shopping, design o frestorationworks, preparation o fbiddingdocuments, bidevaluations
and contract award. Procurement focal persons shall be identified at the district level. The Bank will
conduct procurementtraining workshops duringthe implementation o f the project, for key procurement
staff of all the implementing agencies inorder to improve and update their knowledge o f the Bank's
procurementprocedures. Each implementingagency will assign within the first month o f the project
effectiveness, qualified and trained focal pointshesourcepersons for procurement.

ProcurementMethods

30.      Goods and Works to be financed under the Project shall be procured in accordance with the
Guidelinesfor Procurementunder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits, May 2004. The Bank's sample Bidding
Documents for National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procurement, which are already beingused on other
Bank financed projects inPakistan, will be usedfor procurement o f Goods and Works. Consultants
Services financed under the program shall be procuredinaccordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor
Selectionand Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, May 2004. The Bank's Standard
Request for Proposal document will be usedinthe selection o f consulting firms. Options o fprocurement
through direct contracting, and single source selection shall also be applicable to the procurements
pertaining to emergency relief works and services, with prior approval o f the Bank. All contracts awarded
without competition will be negotiatedbased upon the prevailing market rates.

CivilWorks

31.     Civil works generally comprise:
        0         Repairs or re-constructiono f damaged road embankments, pavements, culverts, small
                  bridges, retaining walls, and other ancillary works;
        0         Restoration o f Buildingsinvolving reconstruction andor repairs o f damagedboundary
                  walls, rooms, sanitary facilities, and other ancillary works;
        0         Repair o f Water Supply Schemes involvingrepairs to damaged pipelines, pumping
                  equipment, and other ancillary works; and


                                                       16

        0        Restoration o f Irrigation Canals by repairs o f breaches incanal embankments, removal o f
                 debris deposited inthe canal prisms, control structures, canal cross drainage structures
                 and outlet structures.

32.     Civil works under the project will generally be procured following NCB procedures. Small civil
works estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 per contract, will be procured following National Shopping
procedures.

33.     Works as envisaged for the emergency relief can beprocured on the basis o f direct contracting,
withprior approval ofthe Association. All negotiatedcontract will bebaseduponthe existingmarket
prices. Direct contracting will be allowed only for the procurements beingmade within one year o f the
project signing.

34.     Works which the Association agrees meet the requirements o f Force Account may be carried out
inaccordance withthe provisions ofthe saidprocurementmethod.

Goods and Commodities

35.     Goods and commodities under the project would generally include office furniture, equipment,
vehicles & other goods required by PCMU and implementing agencies incarrying out their duties.

36.     Given the nature o f the Project, goods and commodities estimated to cost less than US$25,000
per package will be procuredthrough National Shopping procedures. Packagescosting more than
US$25,000 will be procured through NCB procedures. Vehicles regardless o fthe estimated cost shall be
procuredthrough shopping procedures after prior approval o f the Bank.

37.     Goods which are required to beprocured for emergency relief shall beprocured through direct
contracting with prior approval o f the Bank. The negotiatedprice shall be based upon market rates. Direct
contracting will be allowed only for the procurements beingmade within one year o f the project signing

Improvement of BiddingProceduresunder NationalCompetitive Bidding


38.     The following improvements inbiddingprocedures will apply to all procurement o f Goods and
Works under NCB, inorder to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency andbroad consistency with the
provisions o f Section 1o f the Guidelines:
        0       Invitationto bid shall be advertised inat least one nationalnewspaper with a wide
                circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o fthe bid.
        0       biddocuments shall bemade available, bymail or inperson, to all who are willing to pay
                the requiredfee;
        0       foreign bidders shall not beprecludedfrom biddingand no preferenceo f any lundshall
                be given to national bidders inthe biddingprocess;
        0       biddingshall notberestrictedto pre-registeredfirms;
        0       qualification criteria shall be stated inthe biddingdocuments;
        0       bidsshall be openedinpublic, immediately after the deadline for submission ofbids;
        0       bidsshall not berejectedmerelyon the basis of a comparisonwith an official estimate
                without the prior concurrence o f the Association;
        0       before rejecting all bidsand soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall
                be obtained;
        0       bidsshallbe solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis o funitprices andnot
                on the basis o f a composite schedule o frates;
        0       contracts shall not be awarded on the basis o fnationally negotiatedrates;

                                                      17

         0       cost estimates shall be preparedon the basis o f market rates.
         0       contracts shall be awardedto the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and
         0       post-bid negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.

Consultants'Services andTraining

39.      Consultants' services urgentlyrequiredfor implementation ofthe emergency relief may be
engaged, with the Bank's prior concurrence, either on single-source basis, through Selection Based on
Consultants Qualifications, or by amending existing consultants' services contracts under other on-going
Bank financed projects. Other services o f consultancy maybe hiredfollowing the Quality-and-Cost Based
Selection, Quality Based Selection, FixedBudget Selection, Least Cost Selection, or Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications. LikewiseNGOswill be hired for the three identifiedsectors of work using
Quality and Cost Based Selection, or Single Source Selection. Single source selection will be allowed
only for the procurements being made within one year of the project signing.The procedure will be
agreed with the Bank andmentionedinthe procurement planbefore any procurement i s actually made.

ProcurementPlanning

40.      The Office ofthe PCs inthe Planning andDevelopmentDepartment at the provinciallevel, and
the DCOs at the district level, will coordinate the preparation ofprocurement plans by each implementing
agency for all the identified contract packages for Goods, Works and Consultants' Services as part o f the
Project ImplementationPlan to be completed according to the agreedmilestones. Procurement o f the
contract packages under the project will be carried out inaccordance with this procurement plan, agreed
bythe Bank. Considering the emergency nature ofthe program, which will require some adjustments
duringimplementation, the procurementplanningprocess will be flexible. However, the procurement
plans will be updatedandmonitored quarterly.

Review ofProcurementby the Bank

41.      Prior Review:
         1)      the first goods and works contract to be executed through NCB as well as national
                 shopping regardless of its value,
         (ii)    all contracts for goods and works estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent
                 per contract
         (iii)   the first consultancy services contractregardless of its value
         (iv)    consultants' services with firms estimated to cost more than US$ 100, 000 equivalent per
                 contract, and
         (v)     the first individual consultant contract regardless o f its value.
         (vi)    services of individual consultants estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 equivalent per
                 contract.

42.      All other contracts will be subject to postreviewbythe Bankand emphasis would beplaced on
ex-post procurement and end-use audits which will be carried out on a regular basis to verify that the
activities financed under the project are procured inaccordance withagreed procedures and are used for
the intended purposes.

ProcurementInformationand documentation

43.      Procurementinformation will berecorded and reportedas follows:
         (a) Complete procurement documentation for each contract, including biddingdocuments,
              advertisements, bidsreceived, bid evaluations, letters o f acceptance, contract agreements,
              securities, related correspondence etc., will be maintainedby the implementing agencies in an

                                                       18

             orderly manner so as to readily available for audit.
         (b) Contract award information willbepromptly recorded and contractrosters, inthe Bank's
             sample format, maintainedby each implementingagency, and inthe PCMU.
         (c) Comprehensive quarterly reports byPCMU, indicating.
             (i)revisedcostestimates,whereapplicable,foreachcontract;
             (ii) ofon-goingprocurement,includingacomparisonoforiginallyplannedandactual
                  status
                  dates o f the procurement actions, includingpreparationo f biddingdocuments,
                  advertising, bidding, evaluation, contract award & completion time for each contract; and
             (iii)
                 updatedprocurement plans, including reviseddates, where applicable, for the
                 procurement actions.

                   Table2.1: Thresholdfor ProcurementMethods andPriorReview
     Sr.         Expenditure           ContractValue        Procurement        ContractsSubject to
     No.           Category              Threshold            Method            PriorReview (US$)
                                            (US$)
      1.    Works                                                                 (12.75 million)
            - CivilWorks
                                       > 100,000                NCB                     All

                                       Between 25,000           NCB                Firstcontract
                                       and 100,000
                                                              National             FirstContract
                                         30.000               Shopping
     2.     Goods                                                                   (9 million)


                                       > 100,000                NCB                     All

                                       Between25,000            N C B              Firstcontract
                                       and 100,000
                                                              National             FirstContract
                                         25,000               Shopping
     -
     3.     Consulting Services                                                     (1million)
            Firms
                                       > 100,000          SSS/QCBS/LCSI                 All
                                                          QBS/FBS/SBCQ

                                       < 100,000          SSS/QCBS/LCS/        Firstcontract byeach
                                                          QBS/FBS/SBCQ                 I.A.
            Individuals
                                       > 50,000            Section V- CG                All

                                       <50,000                  -do-           Firstcontract by each
                                                                                       I.A.

44.     Total estimated value of contracts subject to prior review: US$5 million.
45.     Overall Procurement RiskAssessment -Medium

46.     Frequency ofprocurement supervision missionsproposed: Once inevery six months (excluding
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).

                                                      19

                            Annex 3: Environmentaland Social Guidelines

 1.      The proposed emergency project aims to assist the Government ofNWFPto respondto the
extensive damage causedby the 2005 earthquake and the flooding, through measures aimed at the
rehabilitation o f economic and social infrastructure. Subprojects financed underthe project will consist
earthquake and flood damaged irrigation and drainage systems, drinlungwater schemes, roads, school and
health facilities and other district infrastructure such as bridgesand culverts.

2.       The additional activities o fthe restructuredproject involves mainly beneficial reconstruction and
restoration works o f irrigation schemes, water supply schemes, roads, bridges, culverts and residential
houses that have low and manageable environmental impact and therefore i s classified as Category "B"
under the Bank's OP 4.01 similar to the original project. The mainpurpose o f the additional project
activities i s to assist the GoNWFP to respondto the damages causedby the recent floods and earthquake
through measures aimed at restoring economic and social infrastructure and strengtheningo f safety nets.

3.       Under the original project, a general review o f the potential environmental and social issues was
conducted. The rapid screening and scoping exercise revealed no major issues which could not be
mitigated duringproject implementation. Since specific sites and interventions were not decided for
project activities, it was decidedthat environmental and social issues should form an integral part o f the
overall framework for identifying,preparing and monitoringsubprojects (FIPMSP). Accordingly, an
overall FIPMSPthat addressesenvironmental and social issues was developed by the GoNWFP and
project implementation has been guidedby the framework to date. The framework provides a clear road
map, with clear and measurable screening criteria, a transparent process andprocedures, adequate
technical and management and financial resources, as well as a timetable and a monitoring system before
project activities are initiated.

4.       Reviewo fthe FIPMSPindicates that the framework i s broadenoughto address environmental and
social issues that could arise from the implementation of the newproject activities. Since Project activities
will be applicable to specific geographic areas affectedby the floods and earthquake, Social Assessment
will be carriedout to identifythe affected communities/ persons, the types o f interventions required and
identify any Safeguard Policies that may be triggered, and provide mitigationmeasures (ifrequired).
Accordingly, the FIPMSPwill be reviewed by the Government and applied where required.

Environment and Social Issues

5.       The magnitude of adverse impactsfrom the Project is anticipated to be low andmanageable. Civil
works insubprojects will consist ofrehabilitation or reconstructiono f infrastructure such as irrigation
systems, roads, bridges, culverts, water systems and school andhealth facilities damaged by the disasters.
Repairs andrehabilitation of provincial andrural roads will follow existing alignments and will require
little or no land acquisition.

6.       All subproject proposals arerequiredto containbasic environmentaland social information that
would facilitate screening on whether or not the subproject i s likely to have significant environmental
impacts or require landor asset acquisition or result inresettlement or impact on indigenous peoples.
Subprojects whose expected environmental and social impacts are negligible and do not require special
attention would be cleared for approval. Subprojects expected to generate moderate impacts should
require preparation o f an environmental and/or social analysis and incorporation of recommended
mitigationmeasures inthe subproject design before approval. Subprojects with significant environmental
risks or requiring landasset acquisition andresettlement will generally not be considered for financing. A
check list o f likely environmental impacts will be usedby each executing agency indeterminingwhether
the proposedwork can be expectedto result insignificant environmental impacts, and ifso, to require



                                                       20

additional studies and actions to ensure that the subproject work meets with Bank environmental and
social requirements.

Dealingwith potential land, asset acquisitionand resettlementissues

7.      Impacts will be minimizedthrough careful selection o f the proposed subprojects so as to
(i)minimize land acquisition; (ii)  require that all subprojects involving land acquisition meet
commitments to replace acquired land with equivalent or better land or other equivalent productive assets;
(iii)emphasize participatory resolution o f land issues; (v) ensure sign-off that the land acquisition rules
are followedby the project staff; and (vi) require a Resettlement Action Plan inthe event that any
resettlement involves more than 100persons.

8.      Subproject proposals that shouldrequire demolition o fhouses or acquisition o f land will be
carefully reviewed to reduce their impacts through alternative alignments. Proposals that require more
than minor expansion along rights o f way will be treated similarly. Inthe guidelines to be approved,
principles and instructions to compensate affected persons will be spelt out to ensure that all persons
negatively affected, regardless o f their land tenure status, will be assisted to improve, or at least to restore,
their living standards, income earning or productive capacity to pre-project levels. Compensation can
consist of:
         0      replacement land with an equally productive plot or other equivalent productive assets;
         0      materials and assistance to replace fully solid structures that will be demolished;
         0      replacement o f damaged or lost crops, at market value;
         0      other acceptable in-kindcontribution.

9.      The guidelines should also require that the project ensures that all occupants or land and owners of
assets located ina proposedsubproject area are informed o f their rights to compensation and the options
that are available to them. These discussions and agreements reached shouldbe documented and include
the following:
         0      for landasset acquisition against compensation, names o f affected persons and details
                about the nature and level o f compensation;
         0      for any voluntary contribution, names o f contributor and details about the contribution;
         0      copies will be recorded inthe subproject field logbook and project implementingunit
                documentation andbe available for examination.

10.     The guidelines should also make provisionfor acquisition against compensationinwhich case the
executing agency will:
         0      not approve the subprojectunless satisfactory compensation has been agreed to
                betweenthe affected person and the project;
         0     not allow works to start untilcompensationhas been completed to the satisfaction o f
                the affectedpersons;
         0      inthe event that more than 100persons are affected andrequire compensationina
                village, a compensationplanhas to beprepared and approvedby the Bank before the
                subproject can be approved.

11.     Where Resettlement Action Plans are required to be prepared, they should be done in accordance
with the World Bank's OperationPolicy on Involuntary Resettlement, andinclude an entitlement matrix,
an indicative budget, indicative figures on the numbero fpersons negatively affected, consultative
mechanisms, grievance procedures, implementation procedures and details for external monitoring and
evaluation of resettlement and compensation. An independent agency acceptable to the Bank will be
requiredto monitor and evaluate implementation o fthe RAP.Any proposed compensation and



                                                      21

resettlement activity under the project should be brought to the attention of the PSC and the PSC will
notify the relevant government departments.

Dealing with potential indigenous peoples' concerns

 12.    All subprojects willbe locatedinthe earthquake and flood affected areas. Nevertheless, it is
necessaryto ensure that all subprojects will be screened by the executing agency to determine whether
there are indigenous peoples. Should it be determinedthat there are communities o f IP that may be
affectedby the subproject, the following steps are required:
         0       meaningful consultation with affected indigenouspeoples;
         0       mechanisms incorporated into project design and implementation to foster the informed
                 participation o f affected indigenous peoples;
         0       avoid, minimize or mitigate adverse impacts upon them;
         0       ensure that benefits intended for them are culturally appropriate.

 13.    The starting point should be the general identificationo f indigenouspeoples and their presence in
the particular subproject context andthe inclusion o f this information inthe subproject identification.
Duringthe process of screening, the executingagency mayrequire additional information to beprovided,
including through consultation with potentially affected groups on a site-specific basis. Technical
judgment by qualified social scientists and NGOsthat interact with indigenous peoples should be
obtainedinsituations lacking clarity andto assist indetermining the groups to which the policy applies
and the likely project affects them.

 14.    Subprojects, which may have adverse impacts, as well as those inwhich indigenous people are
among the proposedbeneficiaries bothrequire informed participation. Where indigenous peoples have
their ownrepresentative organization, suchorganizations maybethe channels for communicating local
preferences, but where views are contested, the objective i s to ensure that directly affected groups can
make their voices heard and for the development of consensus measures to be incorporatedinto project
design.

15.     Insubprojects where adverseimpacts are anticipated, a social assessmentshouldbeundertakento
determine the nature and extent o f impacts andthe measuresrequired to avoid, minimize or mitigate such
impacts. Basedon this assessment, the executingagency should prepare a planinconsultation with the
affected groups. The content and level of detail o f the plan may vary accordingto the specific
characteristics o fthe subproject and the nature o f impacts to be addressed. Because the needs and
priorities o f indigenous peoples may change over the life o f the subproject, the proposedmeasures should
include mechanisms for periodic review and adjustment.

16.     Inorder to ensurethat theprocess andrationale for project interventions are clear andtransparent,
whenever indigenous people are affectedby a sub project, information on identification, consultation, and
measuresto be incorporated into the subproject should be documentedalong the lines of the guidelines
for resettlement and land acquisition. The World Bank's Operational Directiveon guidelines for
indigenouspeoples i s to be used for hrther guidance indeveloping appropriate procedures when
required.

Mitigatingsectoral environmental concerns

17.     Roads. Proposed work insub projects consists o frehabilitation o frural, roads, bridgesand
culverts, Repairs include diggingup damaged road sections andplacingback earth fill and aggregates
with appropriate compaction andrebuildingof entire road sections destroyedbythe earthquake. Priorto
selection and implementation o f subprojects, it will be necessary for the executing agency, to undertake
an initial screening on likely environmental problems, includingthe review o f past experience with any

                                                       22

significant environmental protectionproblem. Particular attention should be paid inthe screening to
encroachment on fauna and flora, landuse, encroachment on historical and cultural sites, erosion and
siltation, interference with water quality and drainage patterns, noise and dust pollution, and other key
environmental parameters. Shouldthe screening based on the guidelines indicate that there are potentially
significant environmental impacts, the executing agency would be requiredto prepare a summary Initial
Environmental Examination (IEE) with proposedmitigationmeasures to address or lessen the potential
effects identified. Environmental safeguards may also needto be specified inthe technical specifications
for contractors to ensure that they fully adhere to mitigationmeasures duringthe implementation o f sub
projects.

18.     Inorder to minimizeenvironmentalproblemsandreduce the potentialfor landacquisition and
resettlementproblems inroad subprojects, it will be necessary to ensure that work undertaken will be
done on the existingroadplatfondright o f way. Land acquisition for wideninglands and shoulders or
adding extra lanes in steep inclines, improving curves or strengtheningbridges will not be permitted
without carrying out a more detailed IEE.No upgrading i.e. changing o froadcategory or additional new
roadlanes or construction of new roads i s to be financed by the project.

19.     Others.The original projects, NWFPCIP-I1andNWFP OnFarmWater Management hadtheir
own EnvironmentalManagementFramework (EMF)with mitigatingmeasures for on farm irrigationand
drainage, small roads, linkbridges, water supply and sanitation schemes etc. This framework will be
applied inrelevant earthquakehloodrehabilitation andreconstruction work.




                                                     23


