Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3906 PAK 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second NWFP Community Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated August 11, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3906 PAK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER 
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP). 
 
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 25,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS NWFP, 
in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through LGE&RDD, TMAs and CCBs with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
community development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NWFP shall otherwise agree, NWFP shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) NWFP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NWFP shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and NWFP, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NWFP on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) NWFP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project and the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
NWFP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NWFP of its obligations under this . 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
Page  5
-
3
-
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) NWFP 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or  
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon NWFP’s reporting obligations set out 
in paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, NWFP shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period 
not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify NWFP of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
Page  7
-
5
-
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For NWFP: 
 
Planning & Development Department 
 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
 
Peshawar, Pakistan  
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
   92-91-9210354 
 
Peshawar, Pakistan 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be 
taken or executed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Government of 
NWFP, or such other person or persons he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
/s/ Abid Hasan 
Acting Country Director, 
 
Pakistan 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
By 
 
/s/ Wakeel Khan Afridi 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services  
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent but less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract; and (ii) works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or 
more per contract, may all be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 1: 
Page  10
-
8
-
(i) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages to attract national bidders. 
 
(ii) 
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(aa) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one 
national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior 
to the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(bb) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in 
person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(cc) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and 
no preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in 
the bidding process; 
 
(dd) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(ee) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding 
documents; 
 
(ff) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(gg) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison with an official estimate without the prior 
concurrence of the Association; 
 
(hh) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the 
Association’s prior concurrence shall be obtained;  
 
(ii) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on 
the basis of unit prices and not on the basis of a composite 
schedule of rates (CSR); 
 
(jj) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
Page  11
-
9
-
(kk) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidders; and  
 
(ll) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the 
lowest evaluated or any other bidders. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Community 
Participation
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded directly to the CCBs concerned. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan of each implementing agency for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the Guidelines referred to in Part B.1 of this Section I; (b) each contract for 
works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more and awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I; and (c) the first contract for goods and the first 
contract for works, irrespective of value, awarded by each implementing agency in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
Page  13
-
11 - 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 3 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of consulting 
firms awarded by each implementing agency, irrespective of value; and (ii) each 
subsequent such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants awarded by each implementing agency, irrespective of value; and (ii) each 
subsequent such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
NWFP shall implement the Project in accordance with the OM, the EMF and the 
FMM, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
(a) 
NWFP shall, throughout the Project implementation period, maintain a 
Project Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) within LGE&RDD,  headed by a Director 
General.  The PCSU shall be assisted by Regional Coordination and Support Teams 
(RCSTs). 
 
(b) 
The PSCU shall be responsible for routine coordination and monitoring 
of Project activities, including oversight and on-ground inspections of CI and CD 
schemes, promotion of cooperation amongst line departments, district and municipal 
government agencies and community representative organizations, and monitoring of 
implementation performance.  
 
3. 
(a) 
NWFP shall, not later than September 30, 2004, constitute and thereafter,  
throughout the Project implementation period, maintain a Project Review Board, chaired 
by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), and including as its members, among 
others, the Secretaries of Finance, Planning & Development, LGE&RDD, and Works & 
Services, and the Director General heading the PCSU. 
 
(b) 
The PRB shall be responsible for top-level Project oversight and 
coordination and periodic review of the Project policy framework (which shall include 
removal of policy and procedural obstacles and bottlenecks), and, in partnership with 
NWFP’s Provincial Finance Commission, for fiscal allocations and transfers to local 
government levels for Project purposes. 
 
4. 
NWFP shall take, and shall cause PTMAs to take, measures, satisfactory to the 
Association, to keep Project staff turnover to a minimum.  
 
5. 
(a) 
NWFP shall ensure that, for purposes of financing CI and CD schemes, 
priority will be given to communities which:  (i) are located on an eligible site within the 
jurisdiction of an eligible TMA; and (ii) have formed or are willing to form an eligible 
CCB.  
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this provision: 
 
(i) 
the term “eligible site” means a site where: 
 
(A) 
the need for community services/infrastructure has 
been clearly established; 
 
(B) 
there are no proposed/ongoing/recently completed CI 
or CD schemes; 
 
(C) 
the minimum population size is 100 households  or 
above if a hilly area, and 200 households or above if a 
plain; 
 
(D) 
the communities are able and willing to contribute 
20% of the capital cost of secondary works under CI 
schemes and 3% of such cost for purposes of O&M of 
such works; 
 
(E) 
gender, political, socio-geographical and racial 
differences may not be considered in the contribution 
to and site selection of schemes; 
 
(F) 
the socio-economic, technical and environmental 
viability of the site has been examined and established; 
 
(G) 
small CI schemes with low cost and high impact are 
given preference; 
 
(H) 
the communities have demonstrated their commitment 
through their capacity for social organization, 
ownership and cost-sharing; 
 
(I) 
the CI/CD scheme to be carried out will benefit the 
largest number of the population in the community; 
 
(J) 
the communities lack basic infrastructure; and 
 
(K) 
the communities are willing to form CCBs to represent 
all segments;  
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
(ii) 
the term “eligible TMA” means a TMA which is: 
 
(A) 
willing to carry out CI and CD schemes based on the 
community infrastructure project approach, 
methodology, design and other terms and conditions 
stipulated under the Project; 
 
(B) 
willing to contribute at least 10% of the capital cost of 
secondary works under, and technical support required 
for, a CI scheme, and training and other assistance 
required for a CD scheme;  
 
(C) 
willing to assist with the formation of a CCB where 
none exists; 
 
(D) 
suitably equipped, staffed and trained and possesses 
the logistics to carry out CI and CD schemes; 
 
(E) 
willing to enter into a participation agreement in 
writing; 
 
(F) 
willing to avail of the capacity-building opportunities 
and other performance based incentive schemes 
available under the Project; and  
 
(G) 
capable of taking decisions, meeting deadlines and 
coordinating activities at various levels; and 
 
(iii) 
the term “eligible CCB” means a CCB which: 
 
(A) 
has been duly registered under the Ordinance; 
 
(B) 
is representative of all segments of the community, 
including a fair section of households, including 
women and other vulnerable groups; 
 
(C) 
is functioning with the full participation of its council 
and general body, with the minutes of council 
meetings and financial and other records being 
available to the community at large;  
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
(D) 
has prepared a CAP satisfactory to the PTMA 
concerned, and on which the CI scheme it is 
sponsoring is based; 
 
(E) 
has undertaken to carry out such CI scheme in 
accordance with the policies, principles and 
procedures set forth in the OM, in the EMF and in the 
relevant CAP; 
 
(F) 
has undertaken to contribute any and all land required 
for such CI scheme, which shall have been acquired by 
or otherwise made available to it on a voluntary basis, 
and 20 % of the capital cost of secondary works under, 
and 100% of the O&M cost of, such CI scheme to be 
financed from an O&M fund established for the 
purpose on suitable terms and conditions; 
 
(G) 
has demonstrated that the local infrastructure to be 
developed under such CI scheme will be supported by 
such primary infrastructure as will be needed to ensure 
effective and efficient operation of the scheme; and  
 
(H) 
is willing to enter into a memorandum of agreement 
with the PTMA concerned, substantially conforming 
to the standard form appended to the OM, so as to 
assume full responsibility for its part of the 
preparation, design and implementation of such CI 
scheme while it is being carried out, and for its O&M 
after it has been completed. 
 
6. 
NWFP shall ensure that the first three memoranda of agreement proposed to be 
entered into with the concerned PCCBs pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 (b)(iii) 
(H) of this Schedule will be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
concurrence.   
 
7. 
NWFP shall make the funds under the Project available to the PTMAs/PCCBs 
concerned on a non-reimbursable basis in accordance with funds flow arrangements 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
8. 
NWFP shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
representatives of the concerned PCCB will be invited to participate in, 
and representatives of the concerned RCST will be invited to monitor, each concerned 
PTMA’s procedures for inviting and evaluating bids and awarding contracts for the 
procurement of goods and works required for any CI scheme;    
 
(b) 
procurement documentation and record keeping systems satisfactory to 
LGE&RDD will be developed and adopted by each PTMA as a condition of its 
participation in the Project; 
 
(c) 
an individual consultant will be appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement not later than 
 
September 30, 2004, to provide procurement assistance to LGE&RDD at least during the 
first year of Project implementation; and  
 
(d) 
key procurement staff of LGE&RDD will be identified, trained in the 
procurement procedures mandated for the Project and designated as the focal points for 
procurement for the duration of Project implementation, all in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association and not later than December 31, 2004.  
 
9. 
NWFP shall ensure that the financial management staff of LGE&RDD will be 
trained in the financial information system mandated for the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association and not later than December 31, 2004. 
 
10. NWFP 
shall: 
 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2006, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
Page  19
-
17 - 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
