                                                  Documentof
                                                The World Bank


                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                            ReportNo. 33916


                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                             SUPPLEMENTALFINANCING DOCUMENT

                                                        FOR

                             PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCING

                               INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR34.6 MILLION

                                    (US$50MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                        TO

                               THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                        FOR

                       THE SECOND STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                                      FOR THE

                                  NORTHWEST FRONTIER PROVINCE


                                                October 19,2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
    Currency unit:Pahstan Rupees (PKRs) as o f October 18,2005
                        US$1= PKR 60.1

               GOVERNMENT'SFISCAL YEAR
                          July 1-June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS

ADB                  Asian Development Bank
AJK                  h a d Jammu and Kashmir
CWIQ                 Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DFID                 U K ' s Department for InternationalDevelopment
DPC                  Development Policy Credit
ERRA                 Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Authority
EU                   EuropeanUnion
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
JBIC                 Japan Bank for International Cooperation
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
NWFP                 NorthWest Frontier Province
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
PIHS                 Palustan IntegratedHousehold Survey
PPSC                 Provincial Public Service Commission
PRSC                 Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSLMS                Pakistan Social and Living Standards Survey
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
SBP                  State Bank o f Pakistan
SDR                  Standard DrawingRights
UAE                  UnitedArab Emirates
UN                   UnitedNations
UNDAC                UnitedNations Disaster and Coordination
UNDP                 UnitedNations Development Program
UNICEF               UnitedNations International Children's EducationalFund
UNFPA                UnitedNations Population Fund
WFP                  World FoodProgram


             Vice President: PrafulC. Patel, SARVP
          Country Director:    John W. Wall, SACPK
            Sector Director:   Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
           Sector Manager: IjazNabi, SASPR
             Task Manager: Paul Wade, SASPR



                                11

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS


I BACKGROUND                                                                                                                                            1
I1
 ..                           ..................................................................................................................
     THE EARTHQUAKE                                                                                                                                     1
I11 GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSETO THE CRISIS                                                                                                                   3
IV BANKRESPONSEAND STRATEGY                                                                                                                             5
V...                                    .........................................................................................................
                                                                                         ..........................................................

     THE SAC 2 REFORMPROGRAM                                   ..................................................................................
                                                                     .............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                        5
  A. ECONOMICPERFORMANCE AND REFORMSSINCEAPPROVAL OF SAC2...............................                                                                6
  B. FOLLOW-UP      OPERATIONTO SAC 2........................................................................................                           7
VI RATIONALEFORPROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCING                                                                                                            8
VI1 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
  ..                                                                        ......................................................................
                                                                                                                          .............................
                                                                                                                                                        9
  A. TERMSOFTHE SUPPLEMENTALFINANCING..........................................................................
  B. FUNDSFLOWANDAUDIT~NGREQUIREMENTSFORTHE SUPPLEMENTALFINANCING..........9                                                                            9
  C. ENVIRONMENTALISSUES                  .......................................................................................................       9
  D. POVERTYAND SOCIAL PACTANALYSIS............................................................................                                         9
VIII BENEFITSAND RISKS
    .                                       ...................................................................................................         10
  A. BENEFITS   .............................................................................................................................. 10
  B. RrSKS....................................................................................................................................          10




 This document has been prepared by Paul Wade. with contributions fiom Zareen
 Naqvi. Hanid Mukhtar and Deepak Mishra. and assistance fiom Irum Touqeer and
 Arlene Reyes.




                                                                    ...
                                                                    111


                PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCINGTO
                  THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOFPAKISTAN
           FORTHE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
        FOR THE NORTHWEST FRONTIER PROVINCE (NWFP SAC 2)



             SUPPLEMENTALFINANCINGAND PROGRAMSUMMARY



Borrower:               The Islamic Republic o fPakistan

ImplementingAgency:     Government of the North West Frontier Province

Beneficiaries:          Government of the North West Frontier Province

Amount:                 SDR 34.6 million (US$50 million)

Terms:                  Standard IDA terms, with 35-year maturity and 10-year grace
                        period

Disbursements:          The proposedsupplemental financing will be disbursed inone
                        tranche upon effectiveness

ProjectID:              PO79635




                                      V

vi

                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                      PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCINGTO
                         THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOFPAKISTAN
             FORTHE SECOND STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                     FORTHE NORTHWEST FRONTIERPROVINCE


                                        I. BACKGROUND

 1.      The last five years have witnessed a resurgence of Pakistan's economy. Afler a decade o f
political instability, macroeconomic crisis, and limited economic and social progress, Pakistan
has now emerged as one o f the fastest-growing economies in Asia. To accelerate economic
 growth and poverty reduction, the government has launched an ambitious program of economic
reforms and institutional strengthening, articulated most recently in the 2003 Poverty Reduction
 Strategy Paper (PRSP) entitled "Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The
Road Ahead." The government's efforts have been complemented by generous restructuring o f
international debt and increased concessionary financing.            Private sector response to these
developments has been impressive, and i s seen in the rapid take up o f excess capacity in
manufacturing and acceleration o f exports, and substantial investment in textiles, banlung, and
telecommunications. Broad development outcomes, including social indicators, are also
improving.

2.       Reforms since 2000 have been supported by the World Bank at the national level with
Structural Adjustment Operations and a first Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 1). At the
provincial level, reforms were supported with Structural Adjustment Credits for the North West
Frontier Province (NWFP) and Sindh, and Education Structural Adjustment operations for
Punjab. Reform implementation has remained strong; a second Poverty Reduction Support
Credit (PRSC 2) i s under preparation as i s also a Development Policy Credit for the NWFP.


                                     11.     THEEARTHQUAKE

3.       On October 8, 2005, a powerful earthquake measuring 7.6 on the kchter scale hit
northern Pakistan'. The epicenter o f the quake was 100kilometers north o f Islamabad, Pakistan's
capital, along the fault line where the Indian Plate meets the Eurasian plate. Tremors were felt
across a wide swath o f South Asia.

4.       Palustan has borne the brunt o f the earthquake, especially 5 northeastern districts o f the
North West Frontier Province (NWFP) and three districts covering most of h a d Jammu and
Kashmir (AJK), with enormous loss o f life and devastation o f infrastructure and property. Current
estimates put the overall death toll at 47,700, but this figure is expected to risen2Over 67,000 are
injured. Nearly 4 million people are affected interms of loss o f shelter and public amenities. In
terms o f loss of lives and number o f injuredpersons, the NWFP accounts for roughly one thirdo f
the total.




'At the confluence of Indus Kohistan and the western ranges of the Himalayas.
 Estimates inthis document are as o f October 19,2005 except where indicated otherwise.


                                                 1

 5.        The earthquake was particularly devastating in five (out o f twenty four) districts in the
p r ~ v i n c e It~caused extensive damage in some urban areas, wiped out a number o f far flung
                .
villages and large numbers o f people died or were injured. About 14,000 persons have died (est.:
 October 17) of which 60 percent inMansehra district alone, and about 23,000 have been injured.

been completely destroyed. This has rendered 1.5 - 2 million persons homeless (between one
 More than 200,000 private homes or 40 percent o f housing units inthe five affected districts have

 third and one half o f the population in these districts). Three o f the affected districts are largely
rural with difficult and inaccessible mountainous terrain. A number o f other villages and small
 towns are currently inaccessible due to road blockages as a result o f landslides, deep fissures and
 fall out o f the roads. A large number o f govemment buildings including schools, health clinics,
 hospitals, govemment offices, police stations, and other official buildings collapsed in the
 earthquake. There was also severe           damage to other        infrastructure such as roads,
 telecommunications infrastructure, power supply,          water supply etc. According to the
 Government's preliminary estimates, in the hard-hit areas 80 percent o f public buildings, 25
percent o f the main roads, and 75 percent o f the area and local roads are severely damaged.

 6.        The casualty numbers are likely to rise as information is collated from remote, less
 accessible villages and hamlets. The fast approaching Himalayan winter will also take its toll due
to lack o f shelter and exposure to plummeting temperatures.

 7.        The earthquake has had a severe impact on social service delivery (health, education, and
water supply and sanitation) in the affected districts due to the collapse o f related facilities and
the death o fmany teachers, nurses and doctors (in addition to many school children and patients).
Around 8,000 schools were damaged or totally destroyed in the province, most o f which were
primary schools. There i s a highrisk o f diseases spreading as a result o f the breakdown in water
supply and transport accessibility which severely impedes provision o f medicines and medical
personnel.

8.         Overall economic activity in the province i s expected to be adversely affected over the
near term. Local demand i s expected to weaken. The affected families' earnings from own
economic activities have been virtually wiped out and this has substantially reduced their
disposable income. The population inthese areas has traditionally relied also on remittances from

Government are expected to be the main sources o f income for 1.5 - 2 million people in the
family members working outside the area. Such private remittances and cash transfers fi-om the

province.       Business confidence in the affected areas is expected to remain depressed until
reconstruction gets into full swing. These factors are likely to lower economic growth inthis and
other affected regions.

9.        The 5 most affected districts inthe NWFP produce about 17 percent o f provincial (and 2
percent o f national) income. In these 5 districts, an estimated 93 percent of population live in
rural areas and is entirely dependent on agriculture. With about 50 percent o f livestock lulled or
incapacitated in the earthquake and extensive damage to the cropped agriculture, a substantial
share of the income from agriculture i s expected to have been lost. In addition, with large scale
damage to physical infrastructure, substantial income losses are expected in wholesale and retail
trade, transport and communication, and in ownership of dwellings with 40 percent o f houses
destroyed and a large number o f other partially damaged. However, with large-scale
reconstruction and rehabilitation activities expected in the remaining 8 months o f the fiscal year,
there could be some increase in income from the construction sector. Overall, the income loss in
the 5 affected districts o fNWFP could have a substantial impact also on overall provincial GDP.


3 Abbotabad, Mansehra, Battagram, Shangla, and Kohlstan.


                                                2

 10.     The sheer size o f the rescue and relief effort not to speak o f the massive reconstruction
 effort will tax the government's capacity. The capacity o f government to respond was initially
 greatly hampered by the destruction o f government buildings, schools, hospitals, health clinics,
roads, and death o f many local officials and/or their immediate familiedrelatives. For instance,
 almost 40 percent of police officials in Mansehra districts were personally affected by the
 earthquake. However, in the medium term, the province would have to enhance its capacity to
 deliver services by continued coordination with the army and Federal agencies, redeployment o f
 stafffrom other districts, and hiringo f new staff.


                       111.     GOVERNMENT'S       RESPONSETO THE CRISIS

 11.     The Government o f Pakistan and civil society have responded quickly to the earthquake
emergency. Although communications with the most severely affected areas and populations
were severed, the President and Prime Minister visited disaster-stricken sites shortly after the
earthquake. Two Divisions o f the Army were moved into the NWFP and AJJL, and five advanced
 staging posts for facilitation and distribution were set up. A "President's Relief Fund" has been
established to mobilize resources for relief efforts. The Prime Minister's office has appointed a
Relief Coordinator, with overall responsibility for relief efforts, targeted towards providing
shelter, food, clean water and immediate medical care. Furthermore, the Government has already
announced cash transfers o f Rs 100,000 for death o f individual family members and Rs 50,000
for injured members; this alone would add up to more than US$lOO million. The President has
launched a "President's Rehabilitation Initiative" (PRI) to rebuild damaged infrastructure,
including roads, bridges, government buildings, and schools.           The PRI will oversee the
completion o f the task through an Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Authority
(ERRA). In addition, the civil society in Palustan has mobilized swiftly, raising nearly Rs 6
billion (US$lOO million) in donations to various private charities and government relief funds,
and has provided clothing, temporary shelter, food, medicines and medical care to the victims.

12.      The Government has also requested international assistance, which started arrivingwithin
days o f the earthquake. The United Nations (UN) immediately deployed the United Nations
Development and Assessment Coordination (UNDAC) Team to provide technical assistance to
assess the disaster and manage the disaster response. The UnitedNations Development Program
(UNDP) is helping coordinate relief efforts at both national and local levels.            Other UN
specialized agencies such as United Nations Children's Educational Fund (UNICEF), the World
Food Program (WFP), and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have also provided
emergency assistance. To date, over US$500 million has been pledged on a bilateral basis by
various governments including the US, EU, UK, UAE, Kuwait, Germany, Japan, Italy, China,
France, Canada, Australia, and Ireland. The Governments o f UAE and Kuwait have pledged
US$lOO million each, Saudi Arabia US$133 million, and the U S Government has committed
US$50 million for relief and rehabilitation. The UN launched an earthquake Flash Appeal for
US$309 million on October 12th 2005, based on the UNDAC's initial assessment. The appeal
covers only immediate needs o f shelter, health, education, infrastructure, food and logistics.

13.     The Government of NWFP has respondedto the calamity in close coordination with the
federal government and along the same lines. It was quick to take urgent measures after the
earthquake, including an aerial survey o f the affected area by the Chief Minister and the
Governor, initial cash transfer o f Rs 173 million to the disposal o f respective District
Coordination Officers for immediate use, creation o f a Provincial Relief Commission to
coordinate efforts, providingthe offices o f District Coordination Officers with staff (and supplies)
from other districts, and setting up a "Chief Minister Earthquake FundNWFP 2005" that may



                                                3

 receive donations from both domestic and international donors. The initial response by the
 provincial and federal government has concentrated on immediate rescue and relief operations
 and providing tents, blankets, clothes, water, medicines and food while also clearing roads. The
 rescue and relief operations have involved using helicopters to ship in the supplies and medical
 personnel to villages currently inaccessible byroad and transport out injured persons. Horses and
 ponies have also been used for relief operations to far-flung mountainous villages. The
 government has also started on setting up local water filtration plants and restoring power supply
 and telecommunications. The next steps will include providing cash transfers to affected families
 while continuing relief efforts; clearing rubble/debris and start reconstruction/ rehabilitation;
 providing temporary shelter such as tent cities while in the next few months starting the longer-
 term efforts o f building houses; and rebuilding roads, health clinics, hospitals and schools. The
 Government o fNWFPwebsite provides the updated status of relief efforts, includingthe status o f
 roads inthe five affected districts (http://www.nwfp.gov.pk/Earthquake 2005 updates).

 14.        The provincial government has also benefited from rapid help from federal, private
 domestic and international sources. The army has provided 16 helicopters and more than 15,000
 troops to participate in the rescue operations. A large number o f Palustani doctors, paramedics,
 nurses, and other volunteers are assisting the local administration.             International assistance,
 including rescue and medical teams, has also arrived quickly from a number of UN agencies,
 international donors andNGOs.

 15.        The crisis response will place a substantial burden on the provincial fiscal budget. While
 it is too early to present clear quantitative estimates a number o f factors point to a very highcost.
 Comparing with recent earthquakes (Table 1) the earthquake in Pakistan is o f similar magnitude
 on Richter's scale but with double the death toll (which will keep rising) and three to four times
 the number o f displacedpersons. Inaddition the unit cost o f service delivery and reconstruction is
 higher in the case o f this earthquake gwen the difficult access to villages which are mainly in
remote areas.

               Table 1. Casualties and Estimated Reconstruction Cost of Recent Earthquakes
  Place                          Date of the       Magnitude              Estimated           EstimatedCost
  Country                       Earthquake       (Richter scale)          Casualties         of Reconstruction
  AJK andNWFP, Pakistan        October 8,2005         7.6                  47,700+            to bedetermined
  Gujarat, India              January26,2001          7.5                   20,000               $2.3 billion
  Marmara, Turkey             August 17,1999          7.4                   17,000              $5.0 billion
  Taichung County, Taiwan    September21,1999         7.3                   2,417               $11.5 billion
  Los Angeles, US             January 17,1994         6.7                    57                 $25.0 billion
  Bam, Iran                  December26,2003          6.5                   26,000               $1.5 billion
 Sources:World Bank; Wu (2003).4

 16.        Over the next 5 years, the federal government (very preliminarily) estimates that it will
need at least US$5 billion to rebuild damaged infrastructure and return the affected region to
normalcy, and as indicated from the comparison with earthquakes in other countries, the cost
could be even higher. Based on provincial and federal figures the reconstruction costs in the
NWFPis likely to be around one third o f the country's total. While the provincial and the federal
government will share the costs o f reconstruction in the NWFP, a somewhat smaller share will
fall on the provincial government. These costs would still be several percentage points o f


  Data for Taiwan and US from Jie Ying Wu (2003) A Comparative Study of Housing Reconstruction: After Two
Major Earthquakesthe 1994Northridgeearthquake inthe UnitedStates and the 1999 Chi-Chiearthquakein Taiwan. A
Dissertation. Submitted to Texas A&M University. Accessible at https://txsDace.tamu.edu~itsh-cam/l969/74/1letd-
tamu-2003B-2003061914-Wu-1 .Ddf.Data fromIndiaandTurkey from World Bank OED (various reports).



                                                  4

 provincial GDP each year.        This compares with the province's total expected spending on
 comparable items in the FY06 budget o f the equivalent o f 3.6 percent o f provincial GDP.5
 Implementing these substantial reconstruction efforts efficiently could tax the provincial
 government 's administrative and absorptive capacity.

 17.      Tax revenues from the affectedregion are likely to be virtually wiped out for at least the
 remainder o f the fiscal year. Due to the centralized nature o f the country's revenue system the
 bulk o f this loss will fall on the federal government. Still, indirectly there will be lower regular
 revenue transfers to the province from the federal divisible revenue pool. Nevertheless, as a result
 o f expected increases inpublic expenditures, lower own provincial revenue, lower regular federal
 revenue transfers, and a slow down in economic activity, it i s expected that the province's fiscal
 deficit target (1.5 percent o f GDP) for the current fiscal year (2005/06) will be exceeded. The
provincial government also plans to reprioritize development and current expenditures in the
 current as well as in subsequentbudgets, so as to maintain a sustainable fiscal path.


                             Iv. BANKRESPONSEAND                STRATEGY6

 18.      In response to the earthquake, the Bank has established crisis management teams in
Washington and Islamabad, chaired by the Vice President and Country Director, respectively.
Within 24 hours ofthe earthquake, the Bank announced that US$20 millionwould be available to
 Government o f Pakistan through reallocations from existingprojects. This amount was doubled
to US$40 million on October 11, through additional identified reallocations. Incooperation with
Government and other development partners, the Bank has helped establish a structure for donor
response and planning. Overall initial relief operations are being championed by the W A C .
The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) have been asked by the Government
o f Pakistan to co-lead a multi-agency Damage and Needs Assessment, which will start October
23,2005. Senior Management i s inclose contact with other development agencies and the UN.

 19.      The Bank is preparing a proposedpackage o f US$470 millionto help Pakistan deal with
the reconstruction effort and safeguard the on-going reform andpoverty reductionprogram. This
package will include: (i)    supplemental financing o f US$l50 million under PRSC 1 and U S 5 0
million under NWFP SAC 2; (ii)additional financing for existing projects (AJK Community
Infrastructure and Services Project, Palustan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project, and Highways
Rehabilitation Project); and (iii)reallocation o f part o f the proceeds o f AJK Community
Infrastructureand Services Project, NWFP Community Infrastructure and Services Project 11, and
NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project. In addition to this immediate response, if the
Damage and Needs Assessment identifies unmet needs, and if the Government requests it, the
Bank couldprepare an EmergencyRecovery Program.


                              V.      THESAC2 REFORMPROGRAM

20.       The NWFP SAC 2 i s the second in a series o f three operations to support the
implementation o f the Government o f NWFP's Provincial Reform Program. The " F P SAC 2
has been supporting implementation ofthe provincial government's reformprogram, and i s based


  These spending items are development spending and current spending excluding wages, pensions and
interest payments (Le., Operations and Maintenance costs, transfers to local governments and subsidies).
  Inthis document, the "Bank" meansbothInternational Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment(IBRD)
and International Development Association (IDA), unless specifically referred to separately.


                                                 5

on five pillars: (i)Accelerating economic growth and promoting private sector development; (ii)
Accelerating human development and improving social service delivery; (iii) reforms; (iv)
                                                                                Fiscal
Governance reforms in public financial management and procurement; and (v) Reforms to
achieve an efficient, accountable, and service oriented civil service. The SAC 2 (US$90 million)
was approved by the Executive Board on June 22,2004.

21.      The SAC 2 puts a strong emphasis on accelerating human development by improving
social service delivery. This is consistent with the national and provincial PRSPs and reflects that
inPakistanbasic social service delivery (such ashealthandeducation services) isprovidedbythe
provincial governments.

22.      There has been substantial progress inreform implementation under SAC 2 as described
below.    Overall performance has been rated Satisfactory in the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) assessment as well as in the
QAG, and has beenratedHighly Satisfactory in selected areas.

A. Economic Performance and Reforms since Approval of SAC 2

23.      There has been notable progress in the implementation o f NWFP's Provincial Reform
Program supported by the SACSinthe last few years. While progress has not been uniform, and
reforms have taken somewhat longer than expected, GoNWFP has taken significant steps forward
across a range of reform areas.

24.      Pillar I.Promoting sustainable economic growth: Good progress. There has been a
substantial shift in the orientation o f the government towards the private sector in the last year
with a particular emphasis on strengthening public-private dialogue by creating suitable
mechanisms. Reform measures include: (i)        Establishment o f an Investor Facilitation Council
under the chairmanship o f the Chief Minister and an Investor Facilitation Committee with the
Chief Secretary as chairman. Bothhighlevel committees have equal representation by the private
and the public sector; (ii) Handing over o f management o f Industrial Estates to the private sector;
(iii)Establishment o f Central Management Committees to govern public technical schools and
vocational training centers. There is equal representation by the private and the public sector and
the Chairperson is from the private sector; (iv) Drafting of new concession rules for mining
addressing deficiencies inenforcement o fproperty rights.

25.     There are no official estimates o f provincial GDP inPalustan. However, Bank estimates
show a provincial GDP growth rate very close to the national one in the years leading up to FY03
(the last estimate), i.e., before the SAC 2. Hence firm data i s not yet available to show whether
the structural reforms are having a positive supplyresponse from a more dynamic private sector.

26.     Pillar 11. Reforms to accelerate human development and improve service delivery:
Good progress. The Government o f NWFP has made substantial efforts in the last few years to
improve the lives o f its citizens. Service delivery has improved and also expanded inthe priority
areas o f education and health services. These efforts have started to show results in human
development. Preliminary results from the Palustan Social and Living Standards Measurement
Survey (PSLMS), conducted in 2004/05, suggest substantial improvements in gross enrolment
and maternal healthindicators inthe NWFPand for all o f Pakistan.

27.     Pillar III.Fiscal reforms: Good progress. Fiscal deficits have been kept within agreed
targets and consistent with the Medium-Term Budget Framework. In FYs 02-04 the own
revenue/provincial GDP ratio increased through further tax reform, accelerating and rationalizing



                                                6

user chargers, and improving tax administration whereas over the last fiscal year, FY05, it
broadly stagnated. This reflects that most revenue sources assigned to the provincial governments
are non-buoyant (often with specific tariffs) and not linked to value added whereas real GDP and
inflation grew unexpectedly rapidly. However, own provincial revenue only accounts for 10
percent o f the revenue to the provincial government - the rest are transfers from the federal
government and a federal agency. Priority spending (development spending and current social
spending) has increased while other expenditure has been rationalized. Prudent debt management
by retiring expensive debt has created fiscal space. Increases in sanctioned positions, hiringand
hence the wage bill has been quite limited and well below program ceilings. However, federal
wage increases across the board that de facto all provincial governments are compelled to follow
have added substantiallyto the wage bill inrecent years.

28.       Pillar IV. Public financial management reforms:Good progress. Interms o f overall
progress in achievements the NWFP has performed better than program targets in most areas.
The reliability and accuracy o f financial data has continued to improve. Reconciliation levels
achieved far exceed the targeted levels defined in the SAC 2 reform actions. Timeliness o f
reporting has now improved from a lag of 8 weeks to 6 weeks. For the fiscal year 2004/05, the
NWFP became the only provincial government that has prepared its budget on the basis o f the
new chart o f accounts, premised on the new accounting model. Institutionalizing internal audit
function in government has been a major challenge in all governments in Pakistan. The NWFP
has however initiated the process by notifying the establishment o f internal audit function in 19
provincial government departments.

29.      PillarV. Governance and civil service reforms:Fairly good progress. There has been
relatively good progress in civil service reform and governance although progress in devolving
more spending (and to some extent revenue) authority to local governments has been lagging.
NWFP has made good progress in developing a Human Resource Management database;
sanctioned posts are increasing by no more than 3 percent per annum and recruitment processes
have been streamlined whilst maintaining their merit-based integrity. The province has continued
to maintain the autonomy o f the Provincial Public Service Commission (PPSC) for recruitment to
grades 11-16 in contrast to some provinces and the federal government. Steps have been taken to
increase tenure for senior personnel and respond to actuarial liabilities. On the other hand, the
new contract employment legislation does not seem to have fully addressed the issues o f
performance and wage cost flexibility or o f reducing levels o f unfunded pension liability.
GoNWFP appears to have removed inconsistencies amongst its various laws, regulations and
rules o f business with respect to the implementation o f devolution but overall, more progress in
devolution i s needed to support the efforts to improve service delivery in health and education.
These functions have been devolved from the provincial government to local governments
(districts and tehsils). However, their effectiveness i s constrained by the slow administrative and
fiscal devolution.

B. Follow-upOperationto SAC 2

30.      There has also been continued good progress towards meeting the indicative tnggers for
the previously planned SAC 3 (as the last in a series o f three SACS). However, country
management has recently approved replacing the SAC 3 with the first NWFP Development
Policy Credit (DPC) in a series o f three new DPCs. The broad thrust o f the reform agenda will
remain largely the same inthe DPCs but with increased emphasis on educationand healthinDPC
2 and 3 as well as on acceleratingeconomic growth.




                                                7

              VI.      RATIONALE FOR PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

31.      The magnitude and devastation o f the earthquake and the required response from the
provincial (and federal) government are resulting in increased financing requirements than
previously anticipated. Nevertheless,        the provincial government remains committed to
implementing the reform program supported under the SAC program, including the maintenance
o f a sustainable fiscal framework.

32.      A formal Damage and Needs Assessment is not yet available, however, the economic
impact o f the earthquake i s expected to be sizeable.           Early estimates suggest that the
reconstruction costs o f the lost infrastructure inthe province couldbe US$1.5 - 2 billionand thus
will have a sizeable impact on the overall financing needs o f the Government o f the NWFP (as
well as the Government of Pakistan that will share the costs o f reconstruction in the province).
The proposed Supplemental Financing would support the sustained implementation o f the SAC
reform program, and help finance part of the gap in resources incurred as a result o f the
earthquake o f October 8,2005. The impact o f the earthquake on economic activity i s expected to
be substantial at provincial and national levels.      The proposed credit is consistent with the
operational policy for supplemental financing set out in OP/BP 8.60, provided for a development
policy operation for which an anticipated gap in financing jeopardizes the government's reform
program that i s otherwise proceeding on schedule and in compliance with the agreed policy
agenda.

33.      The earthquake has brought about significant needs for relief and reconstruction of
damaged physical and social infrastructure and communications in the affected districts in the
province.

34.      The proposed Supplemental Financing, which will contribute to maintaining the
sustainability o f the overall reform program o f the government, meets Bank requirement for
supplemental financing under OP 8.60 as follows:

    (a) The program is being implemented in compliance with provisions of Loan Agreement.
         The unexpected financing needs that were suddenly created by the earthquake risk
        jeopardizing the SAC reform program which has otherwise been on track and which the
         GoNWFP remains committed to continue implementing.

    (b) Theborrower is unable to obtain sufJicientfunds from other lenders on reasonable terms
        or in a reasonable time. Under the leadership o f the federal and provincial government,
        the Bank and other donors are gearing up to provide support in a coordinated manner.
        However, the need to begin reconstruction i s immediate.         This would be the first
        significant financing package to help the federal and provincial government face
        immediate needs. Other development partners are pledging additional resources, which
        alongside with the Supplemental Financing will contribute to closing the financing needs
        o f the Government of Pakistan for urgent rehabilitation, social support programs, and
        critical reconstruction investments inthe affected areas. The Bank i s consulting with the
        ADB, EU, JBIC and DFID to reaffirm our commitment to avoid fragmentation o f
        external assistanceas much as possible.

    (c) The time available is too short toprocess afurther freestanding Bank loan. The use o f a
        Supplemental Financing option can enable the Bank to provide fast-disbursing policy-
        based financing in support o f the SAC 2 program. Timely response from the Bank will
        help the people o f the affected areas rebuild their lives and more quickly resume



                                                 8

        economic activity. The Bank i s preparing a first NWFP DPC. However, since a few key
        triggers are not yet met, waiting for the first NWFP DPC to be prepared would delay
        muchneeded financial support to the govemment.

    (d) The borrower is committed to the program and the implementing agencies have
        demonstrated competencein c a v i n g it out. The Government of " F P is committed to
        pursuing prudent fiscal policies over the medium term and to implement needed
        structural reforms in line with its poverty reduction strategy. The GoNWFP has
        demonstrated commitment and capacity to implement a far-reaching reform program, as
        demonstrated in the completiodimplementation reports o f SAC 1 and SAC 2. There is
        also satisfactory progress made towards the indicative triggers for the planned follow up
        operation, the first NWFPDevelopment Policy Credit.


                          VII.   IMPLEMENTATION        ARRANGEMENTS

A. Terms of the SupplementalFinancing

35.     No conditions save for the standard requirement for a legal opinion will apply to this
Supplemental Financing. There will be an overall requirement that the Govemment o f NWFP
continues to maintain a sustainable fiscal framework as was required under the NWFP SAC 2.
Credit proceeds will be on-lent to NWFP on the same terms as the original credit.

36.     The closing date for the Supplemental Financing is March31,2006.

B. FundsFlow andAuditingRequirementsfor the SupplementalFinancing

37.     The supplementary financing proceeds will be deposited into the Government o f
Palustan's Special Deposit Account with the State Bank o f Pakistan (SBP) on a single tranche
basis. The Rupees equivalent o f the funds inthe Account will, automatically, be transferred into
the Consolidated Fund (Account No.1 won-food)) o f the Government of NWFP held with the
SBP. As i s the case under the original credit, IDA reserves the right to request an audit o f such
account. IDA disbursements will not be linked to specific expenditures but the proceeds o f the
Supplemental Financing shall not be used for excluded expenditures as set out in the legal
agreement. The Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment concludes that the system in
place does provide reasonable safeguards for reliance on Government financial accountability
systems to ensure that funds are used for the purposes intended.

C. EnvironmentalIssues

38.    Policies supported by this Supplemental Financing are not expected to have a significant
environmental effect inthe province.

D. Poverty and SocialImpactAnalysis

39.    The impact on poverty incidence and social indicators o f the reform program supported
by the NWFP SAC 2, is not yet known. There appears to have been an upswingin economic
growth in the province in recent years. However, there are no official estimates o f provincial
GDP in Pakistan that are needed to confirm this. The impact of the economic turnaround on the
incidence of poverty i s also not yet known. The last source of data (Palustan Integrated
Household Survey) from which poverty estimates can be derived i s now nearly four years old,



                                               9

dating from 2001/02, when economic growth was depressed and rural areas were hit by
successive years o f severe drought. An evaluation o f whether the economic turnaround o f the
past few years has translated into lower poverty will have to await the release and analysis o f the
Household Income and Expenditure Survey expected in December 2005; however, it i s to be
expected that the incidence o f poverty in the NWFP has declined from 42 percent in 2001/02.
While income poverty outcomes are not yet known, preliminary figures from the 2004/05
Palustan Social and Living Standards Measurement survey (Core Welfare Indicators
Questionnaire methodology), recently released by the Federal Bureau o f Statistics, suggest
improvements across a wide range o f social and welfare indicators, reflecting expanded and
improved service delivery as part o f NWFP SAC 2.


                                 VIII. BENEFITS       AND RISKS

A. Benefits

40.      Timely program support will contribute to assisting the Government o f NWFP in
covering immediate needs for relief and reconstruction by accessing financial assistance
necessary to mitigate the impact o f the earthquake. At the same time, it is critical that the
provincial fiscal framework remains sustainable while relief and rehabilitation takes place.
Supplemental program support will be an important source o f budget financing for the
Government as it will provide financing at a time when the impact o f the disaster on government
revenues i s unknown; and there is an urgent need for additional government expenditure. While
donor pledges for the overall national reconstruction efforts have now reached nearly one billion
U S dollars, pledges typically have a longer gestation lag than desired and so flexible financing o f
the type being proposed is necessary to speed up the rehabilitation process.          Supplemental
financing under SAC 2 i s quick disbursing, contributing to timely provisiono f support to affected
populations, while helping maintain macroeconomic stability and the momentum o f the reform
program.

41.      Supplemental financing for NWFP SAC 2 will thus complement the support for short-
and medium-term rehabilitation that will be provided through the restructuring and
reprogramming o f ongoing operations in the Bank's portfolio.        It will also complement the
assistanceprovided by other multilateral, inparticular the ADB, andbilateral agencies.

42.      Finally, the Supplemental Financing will contribute to minimizing the risks to the overall
reform program, maintain the integrity o f the transition to, and the preparation of, the follow up
operation-the   first NWFPDevelopment Policy Credit.

B. Risks

43.      Based on experience from other countries in similar circumstances, there are risks
involved with the type o f assistance being considered by the Bank. Inthis case, the main risks
relate to both the federal and the provincial government's limited administrative capacity to
implement relief andreconstruction operations o f this magnitude as well as effective leadershipto
steer donor efforts. So far, the authorities' response to the earthquake emergency has been
satisfactory, in particular taking into consideration the difficulties o f reaching remote
communities when communications are interrupted and means are limited. Inaddition, UNDAC
and other specialized UNagencies, the Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and several countries
are helpingstrengthen the authorities' capacity to respond.




                                              10



