                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC394
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/08/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: PAKISTAN                                             Project ID: P082621
Project: NWFP Community Infrastructure Project II (           Task Team Leader: Julie G. Viloria-Williams
NWFP CIP2)
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 10, 2003                IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 30, 2004                                 IDA Amount ($m): 43.00
Managing Unit: SASRD                                          Sector: General water, sanitation and flood protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)            sector (36%); Sub-national government
Status: Lending                                               administration (34%); Roads and highways (22%);
                                                              Central government administration (6%); Other social
                                                              services (2%)
                                                              Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural
                                                              services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban
                                                              services for the poor (S); Municipal governance and
                                                              institution building (S); Rural policies and institutions
                                                              (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
          The project aims to improve the well being of the low income communities of NWFP by (i)
supporting investments in community development activities and basic small scale social and productive
infrastructure, utilizing proven and effective participatory approaches; (ii) strengthening the role and
capabilities of the new devolved local governments to extend institutional, financial and technical support to
community citizen boards (CCBs); and, (iii) mobilizing and empowering the Citizen Community Boards
(CCBs), to increase their participation in development activities.
          The CIP-II will integrate the new, more decentralized and participative procedures from the
Government's devolution policies. The immediate outcomes that are expected to result from the program
are: (i) improved infrastructure and services to local communities at lower cost with better O&M
arrangements; (ii) better performance of newly elected local governments in particular the TMAs and in
service delivery and in mobilizing and building the capacity of CCBs to increase their participation in
development activities; and, (iii) creation and strengthening of CCBs enabling local residents to participate
more effectively in development.
          The longer term objectives are the empowerment of communities, a more participative
administrative process, a system for providing better local infrastructure and services at lower cost and,
ultimately, rising income levels, better health and personal security, particularly for women and their young
children. The Project will implement the development of a participative development framework
to be implemented by the lower levels of government working closely with communities and their
citizen's community boards (CCBs).

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
As with the first project, project investments would be demand driven on the basis of proposals from local
communities. Any CCB/CBO could apply for assistance, providing it received Teshil/Union council
endorsement and commitment. Tehsil/Union council entry to the program will be based on a selected

                                                        2
                                                                                                            ISDS


number of performance criteria (to be agreed).      The amounts indicated for the various components are
indicative at present. The proposed project components are:

The CIP II, will be a demand led community development and local infrastructure and services program.
Its key feature is the partnership between the local government and their communities and it is this
partnership that confers its strength and success.

The three main components are:
         ()       Local Infrastructure & Services: This will provide matching budgetary contributions
based on agreed performance targets to participating tehsils and CCBs to support sub-projects investments
in small-scale social and productive infrastructure.

         (b)       Improving Local Level Performance. This component would have two distinct
sub-components:

                   (i) Institutional Strengthening through specific Support to the local governments,
                  (TMAs): This essential element will focus on building and strengthening co-ordinated
                  capacity to manage service delivery and community development and financial incentives
                  for tehsil level performance in efficiently administering their local service programs, fiscal
                  and budgetary management; and,

                  (ii) Community Development Activities: This equally essential component will focus in
                  CCB and resident's performance in planning implementation and maintenance of their local
                  development plans and programs.This will focus on the communities' local residents'
                  abilities for their own development, through the CCBs, and comprises awareness and
                  specialized training on community development approaches, health and hygiene, linkages
                  to local economic development including special support to women, children, other
                  vulnerable and disabled groups.

         ()       Implementation Support, monitoring and evaluation: This will finance the program's
incremental costs of administration, operation and coordination including supervision, and a different
approach to handling monitoring and impact evaluation.

Components: TOTAL                                            US$ 61.458
1.       Infrastructure                              US$ 42.745
2        Improving Local Level Performance US $ 5.617
                  Institutional Strengthening of TMAs US$ 3.027
.                 Community Development                      US$ 2.590
3.        Implementation Support                     US $7.877

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
This include the entire province where capacity is available from the local governments and demand and
ownership from their communities exist.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


Comments: This is an evolving project. At the Project Concept Note Review Meeting of Repeater project,
SASES agreed that the proposal of EA category "B" and Safeguard classification "S" is acceptable. The task
team was advised (with SASES participation) to carry out a rapid independent assessment of the existing
institutional capacity to address these issues and other requirements. An independent assessment was carried
out during the period September 8-12, 2003, including a draft EMF and Social Assessment, the findings are
being fed in the preparation of the CIP2.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                          Triggered
     Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        Yes     No
     Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                Yes     No
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 Yes     No
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   Yes     No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               Yes     No
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                Yes     No
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       Yes     No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           Yes     No
     Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                Yes     No
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The applicability of the safeguard policies to the project have been determined in the social and
environmental assessments. Because the size of infrastructure projects will be limited by the eligibility and
financing criteria, typically between USD 20,000 ­ 50,000, no large scale impacts are expected. Moreover
a negative list of activities determined by World Bank and NWFP EPA policies would be included. A
number of adverse impacts could still occur if the investments are not properly planned, sited, designed,
constructed, and operated and maintained. Typical negative impacts that may arise include: (i) impacts
from excavation, fill and disposal of materials; (ii) disturbance and safety hazards during construction; and
(iii) induced erosion caused by construction activities and improper drainage. For water supply and
sanitation schemes negative impacts may include: (i) contamination of the spring source during water
supply development and construction; (ii) hydraulic interference between existing and new well sources;
(iii) inadequate drainage and waste-water disposal causing cross-contamination of water supplies as well as
mosquito breeding; and (iv) inadequate protection of water sources from bacteriological and chemical
contamination. Environmental issues at policy and
implementation levels include: (a) water quality testing and monitoring, and institutional measures to ensure
that safe water is available to the community, including village-based water quality control programs; (b)
sustainability of yield from water sources and potential for conflict with existing and/or downstream users;
and (c) catchment protection, watershed management, and promotion of integrated management of local
water resources (d) appropriate disposal and reuse technologies for wastewater and solid waste.
.
There are no known indigenous people in the project except for the Kalash in Chitral . The project does not

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS


envisage any intervention in this area. Thus OD 4.20 on indigenous people does not apply . This was
confirmed at the stakeholders workshops held subsequent to the social assessment conducted. However,
during the screening process for CI schemes, the checklist developed ensures that in the event that any such
indigenous groups are found to be residing in selected project area, an Indigenous People's Development
Plan will be prepared, in compliance with OD 4,20, prior to the approval of the project application.
Furthermore the project selection and approval process will ensure that the indigenous groups: (a) have
been consulted during the process of project preparation, and are in agreement with its objectives and
contents; (b) are not being negatively affected in any way by the project; and (c) would obtain
commensurate benefits from the project. OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement is not expected to apply to
this project as only schemes in which land or property is donated or vacated on a fully voluntary basis
would be eligible for project financing.

Under CIP I voluntary land donation was a common feature of community development activities in
NWFP. This process will be followed under this project also. Furthermore, the project does not envisage
involuntary land acquisition. In cases where land is donated by the community: (i) the land will be identified
by the community (ensuring its appropriateness for project activity); (ii) the voluntary nature of the
donation will be verified from the person(s) donating land; (iii) there should be no encumbrances on the
land; and (iv) in situations of loss of income or displacement, verification will be obtained from affected
parties) that community devised mitigation measures are acceptable. Land transfer will be officially
recorded in revenue registers through 'Iqranamas'. Procedures for land will be put in place in the
Operational Manual to be agreed with GoNWFP, to ensure transparency and to see that no undue pressure
is exerted for land donation.

Pest Management Plan and Dam Safety Management Plan do not apply in this project.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No significant cumulative impacts are expected. However, localized impacts may occur and they will be
mitigated through screening and design criteria, supervision and monitoring during implementation and
operation of schemes.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No significant long term impacts are expected. However, localized impacts may occur (for
instance, the improper siting of a water supply scheme) and they will be mitigated through the
adoption of appropriate screening and design criteria, supervision and monitoring (see details in
the EMF).

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Guidelines for arrangements for the borrower to address safeguard issues have been described in
the Environmental Management Framework and detailed out in the project's Operational Manual.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
A full description is included in the draft EMF. These include training and awareness of community,
TMAs and project staff and designation of environmental focal persons to screen subprojects and utilize
appropriate mitigatory measures. At the policy level the EPA would be a member of the Project Review
Board (PRB), and help with environmental assessments, where required. Triggers would be introduced in

                                                      5
                                                                                                       ISDS


the operational manual to ensure that the training and screenings have been carried out and followed up in
scheme design, implementation and operation at all levels as described.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
         Given the experience with the first CIP the following key stakeholders are expected to
participate in project activities: low income communities, officials and staff of District, tehsil and
union council officials and staff, NWFP- Local Government and Rural Development Department
(LG&RDD), other related agencies, NGOs and private firms/groups. It is anticipated that the
community members will participate in project activities by joining the CBOs and neighborhood
and block activities including arranging and organizing community and neighborhood events.
    CIP-2 will largely rely on the approach taken by the first NWFP-CIP, the AJK Community
Infrastructure and Services Project, and other successful community driven development
programs in Pakistan in terms of i) following the community driven approach where men, women
and children define the problems and issues and design practical solutions through a community
action planning process; ii) selecting competitively communities based on human, financial and
O&M commitments. iii) integrating physical, social and economic components managed and
mediated by Citizen Community Boards (CCBs); and, iv) continuing to incorporate and
strengthen the role of women in all aspects of sub-project preparation, implementation and
operation and maintenance activities.

    Implementation arrangements would be documented in the CAP and the Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) between the CCB, and the local government to ensure community
participation and leadership in decision making process, enhancement of women and girls
participation, and clear partnership between the CCB and their local government bodies for all
issues in implementation including safeguards. Prior to actual selection of eligible
areas/communities, the first step is to carry out information dissemination campaigns and
establishing initial contact with the community to ascertain likely community response and
participation. To ensure that the participation and concerns and priorities of women and girls are
addressed in all aspects of the sub-project development cycle, separate focus group discussions
will be carried as part of the agreed stakeholder workshop, community action planning, and
monitoring and evaluation activities.

    The LG&RDD and district, tehsil and union council authorities together with local NGOs,
civil society groups, community leaders and representatives of various CCBs would confer with
their members in their areas that upgrading development through government intervention is
required and the community and users confirm that they are willing, in principle, to accept the
responsibilities and costs that they would incur if their communities would be served. During this
stage, initial orientation and motivational activities would be undertaken, with the final output of a
written request from the community agreeing in principle on responsibilities and a commitment to
be involved in project planning, implementation and O&M responsibilities. The second stage is the
community action planning exercise which then culminates in the signing of the MOU above. For
further details please refer to the PAD section C-4 on institutional and implementation
arrangements which describes the community development process.

    A monitoring and evaluation system for sub-project activities will be highlighted in the field

                                                      6
                                                                                                           ISDS


implementation and M&E reports but also summarized in the formal M&E reports to give local
government and program support unit regular feedback on field implementation issues. Given the
experience with the first CIP the following key stakeholders are expected to participate in project
activities: low income communities, officials and staff of District, tehsil and union council officials
and staff, NWFP- Local Government and Rural Development Department, other related
agencies, NGOs and private firms/groups. It is anticipated that the community members will
participate in project activities by joining the CBOs and neighborhood and block activities
including arranging and organizing community and neighborhood events.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               9/1/2003          9/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           9/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            10/15/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

                                                       7
                                                                                                   ISDS



If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Julie G. Viloria-Williams                          11/27/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Paul Jonathan Martin/Person/World Bank             11/13/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:     Zia Aljalaly/Person/World Bank                     11/27/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:     Fawad Mohammad Khan/Person/World Bank              12/05/2003

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Pramod K. Agrawal                                       12/05/2003
Comments
The updated ISDS has been cleared by the acting Sector Director, Jeffrey S. Racki, SASES

Sector Manager/Director               Constance A. Bernard                               12/08/2003
Comments
Gajanand Patmanathan,Sector Manager SARD provided the clearance on this ISDS, dated 12/08/2003.
The Sector Director SASES provided his clearance on December 5, 2003.

