                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001180



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA Credit 39060-PAK)

                                         ON A

                           CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                SDR 25.3 MILLION (US$ 37.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                          FOR

         SECOND NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (CIP II)

                                   December 28, 2010




Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Sustainable Development Department
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective 27 July 2010)

                       Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee (PKR)
                           PKR 1.00 = US$ 0.01173
                           US$ 1.00 = PKR 85.26

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1 – June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK      Azad Jammu and Kashmir
B:C      Benefit Cost ratio
CAP      Community Action Plan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCB      Citizen Community Board
CSR      Composite Schedule of Rates
CD       Community Development
CIP      Community Infrastructure Project
CSR      Consolidated Schedule Rate
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DO       Development Objective
EAD      Economic Affairs Division of Government of Pakistan
EC       Environment Consultant
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMF      Environmental Management Framework
EOP      End-of Project
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GoNWFP   Government of North West Frontier Province
GOP      Government of Pakistan
HH       Household
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results
IDA      International Development Association
IO       Intermediate Outcome
ISR      Implementation Status and Results
LG&RDD   Local Government Election and Rural Development Department
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MTR      Mid-term Review
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
NWFP     North West Frontier Province (now Khybher Pakhtunkhwa Province)
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PC       Planning Commission
PCSU     Project Coordination Support Unit
PDO    Project Development Objective
PPAF   Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
QALP   Quality Assurance of the Lending Portfolio
RCSU   Regional Coordination Support Unit
ROI    Returns on Investment
SCF    Standard Conversion Factor
SO     Social Organizer
TT     Task Team
TMA    Tehsil Municipal Administration
UC     Union Council

                          Vice President:           Isabel Guerrero
                        Country Director:           Rachid Benmessaoud
                         Sector Manager:            Simeon Ehui
                    Project Team Leader:            Kevin Crockford
                       ICR Team Leader:             Kevin Crockford
                   ICR Primary Authors:             Takayuki Hagiwara (FAO/CP)
                                                    Rashed ul Qayyum (FAO/CP)
                                           PAKISTAN

         SECOND NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT

                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information                                                    i
    B. Key Dates                                                            i
    C. Ratings Summary                                                      i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes                                              ii
    E. Bank Staff                                                          ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis                                         iii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                              v
    H. Restructuring                                                       v
    I. Disbursement Graph                                                 vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       4
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            18
6. Lessons Learned                                                        20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result                                        52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          53
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           63
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         65
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                     66

MAP
IBRD -33231R
A. Basic Information
                                                                              NWFP Community
Country:                Pakistan                    Project Name:             Infrastructure Project
                                                                              II ( NWFP CIP2)
                                                                              IDA-35161,IDA-
Project ID:             P082621                     L/C/TF Number(s):         39060,TF-50945,TF-
                                                                              53444
ICR Date:               12/29/2010                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              GOPAKISTAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                              GONWFP
Original Total
                        XDR 25.30M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 31.84M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 32.20M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordination and Support Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/18/2003         Effectiveness:                               09/03/2004
Appraisal:            12/15/2003         Restructuring(s):                            12/06/2005
Approval:             05/20/2004         Mid-term Review:        02/27/2007           02/27/2007
                                         Closing:                12/31/2009           12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        High
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
                                                                              Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                              Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                  Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:              Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower              Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                  Unsatisfactory


                                                    i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 30                  46
Other social services                                                  8                  35
Power                                                                  2                     2
Roads and highways                                                    50                  10
Sub-national government administration                                10                     7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                         14                  10
Participation and civic engagement                                    29                  20
Rural policies and institutions                                       14                  15
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                  40
Urban services and housing for the poor                               14                  15

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Rachid Benmessaoud                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Simeon Kacou Ehui                    Constance A. Bernard
Project Team Leader:       Kevin John Crockford                 Julie G. Viloria-Williams
ICR Team Leader:           Kevin John Crockford
ICR Primary Author:        Takayuki Hagiwara
                           Rashed Ul Qayyum




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to promote the well being of low income
communities of NWFP by: (a) supporting investments in community development
activities, basic services and small scale productive infrastructure; and (b) strengthening
capacity at the new devolved local government and community levels, to plan and deliver
such services and infrastructure.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target     Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values     Target Years
                  Communities through the CCBs are organized and participating throughout the
Indicator 1 :
                  project from planning through implementation to operation and maintenance
                                             579 CCBs
                  The CCB concept is
                                             participating in the
                  relatively new in the
                                             project and
                  context of the Local
Value                                        benefitting from
                  Government system, and
quantitative or                              community            430         647
                  consequently, there are
Qualitative)                                 infrastructure,
                  very few CCBs on the
                                             which they are
                  ground in most of the
                                             operating and
                  districts/TMAs.
                                             maintaining.
Date achieved     02/22/2005                 02/22/2005           03/30/2007  05/30/2010
Comments          112% achievement of original target and 150% of revised target. The Project
(incl. %          formed 648 CCBs and carried out 647 sub-projects with 1,431 schemes (one
achievement)      sub-project was dropped).
Indicator 2 :     Increased TMA responsiveness and accountability towards communities
                                                                              48 TMA (i.e. 89%)
Value             Less than 10 percent local New procedures                   worked with CCBs
quantitative or   governments working        and responsiveness               in completing
Qualitative)      with CCBs.                 in all 54 TMAs                   647 sub-projects
                                                                              with 1,216 schemes
Date achieved     03/31/2005                 03/31/2005                       05/30/2010
Comments          48 TMA out of the total of 54 TMAs completed 647 sub-projects and 1,431
(incl. %          schemes. This was applied as a proxy indicator to measure this
achievement)      objective/outcome.
                  Lower per capita cost of schemes as compared to government implemented
Indicator 3 :
                  infrastructure
Value
                                                                             At least 35% less
quantitative or



                                                iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 05/30/2010
                  Community contribution was 20%, while the Project automatically deducted
Comments
                  15% profit margin from CSR. The application of 1999 CSR without the
(incl. %
                  premium also reduced the construction costs. There are a couple of observations
achievement)
                  against the claim on saving
Indicator 4 :     Household income improved
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                  There was no target value for improvements in household income nor direct
Comments
                  measurement of improvements for target beneficiaries. However, the ICR did
(incl. %
                  estimate an overall improvement based on the benefit:cost of the infrastructure
achievement)
                  schemes undertaken.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                Number and % of CCBs with Community Actions Plans (CAPs) formulated and
Indicator 1 :
                signed.
                                                              Above 540
                                                              previously
                                          579 CCBs with                      648 CAPs were
                                                              agreed for
                                          CAPs formulated                    signed and
Value                                                         CAPs that
                                          and signed                         implemented.
(quantitative   Nil                                           could be
                                          followed by                        However, one
or Qualitative)                                               supported
                                          community                          subproject was
                                                              through the
                                          infrastructure.                    dropped.
                                                              reduced credit
                                                              amount.
Date achieved 02/22/2005                  02/22/2005          03/01/2007     05/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Provision of improved infrastructure and services to local communities at lower
Indicator 2 :
                cost with sustainable O&M mechanism
                                                                             A total of 1,431
                                                                             schemes
                                          No target break-up                 implemented.
                                          given, except that                 Overall, the cost
Value
                                          33% of funds to be                 spent for each
(quantitative   Nil
                                          spent on primary                   scheme was lower
or Qualitative)
                                          works and 67% on                   than other
                                          secondary works.                   infrastructure
                                                                             construction
                                                                             projects.


                                                 iv
Date achieved     02/22/2005                  02/22/2005                          05/30/2010
Comments          (i) 548 street-pavements, (ii) 463 drains; (iii) 221 water supply; (iv) 179 kacha
(incl. %          (no-gravel unpaved) roads; and (v) 20 other miscellaneous schemes constructed.
achievement)      Appropriate O&M data not available.
                  Better performance of newly elected local governments in service delivery, and
Indicator 3 :     in mobilizing and building the capacity of CCBs as measured by the number of
                  Tehsils qualified to participate in the program
Value
                                            61 TMAs and 586 54 TMAs and 48 TMAs and
(quantitative     Nil
                                            CCBs            430 CCBs    647CCBs
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2005                02/22/2005            03/01/2007     05/30/2010
Comments
                  Some TMAs were merged reducing the number to 54. The project exceeded the
(incl. %
                  target number of CCBs with which it would work.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     09/02/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     03/10/2005           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.87
  3     11/01/2005          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     2.25
  4     05/29/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      3.34
  5     12/24/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    11.71
  6     06/18/2007           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             23.95
  7     12/19/2007           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             30.83
  8     06/14/2008           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             36.94
  9     12/27/2008           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             44.38
 10     05/28/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             47.64
 11     11/30/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             48.68


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reallocation of SDR 8.7 million
                                                     as Part Z to the NWFP
 12/06/2005               U      U            2.26
                                                     Emergency Rehabilitation
                                                     Project




                                                   v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1 The project addressed two key aspects of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) that is closely aligned with the Government of Pakistan’s (GOP) Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP: December, 2003): (i) implementing programs that deliver infrastructure
and services to low income groups; and (ii) improving the efficiency and responsiveness of
Government, in substantial part through the devolution of power to local levels of government.
The latter aspect draws from one of the four-pronged approaches to alleviating poverty as
specified in the PRSP - improving governance and consolidating devolution, both as a means of
delivering better development results and ensuring social justice. Such focus was based on Local
Government Ordinance that the GOP enacted on August 14, 2001 that gives new arrangements
for transferring responsibility to Districts, Tehsil1 and Union Council (UC). The underlying
rationale for this transformation was to create a governance structure that can respond more
effectively to local needs2.
1.1.2 The GOP also committed itself to participatory community development of infrastructure
and services, initiated first under the Community Infrastructure Project (CIP) in the Northwest
Frontier Province (NWFP),3 which was followed by the Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK)
Community Infrastructure and Services Project, both supported by the International Development
Association (IDA) Credit; the former (IDA 2829-PK) was completed on June 30 2003, and the
latter (IDA 3689-PK) implemented from September 2002 to November 2008.
1.1.3 The most persistent constraint confronting the devolution efforts was the inadequate
human and institutional capacities at all levels of local governments, and the need to rapidly build
the same. In response to the GOP plans to decentralize, Credit 2829 was amended in 2002 to
allocate US$ 2.9 million to support the plan of the National Reconstruction Bureau to train
200,000 newly-elected officials in the rudiments of effective government processes and local
development.
1.1.4 Some progress in increasing access to basic infrastructure and services had been made in
NWFP since the CIP-I. However, residents continued suffering from a range of diseases caused
by polluted drinking water, poor sanitation, and inadequate provision of health care. This was
primarily on account of a significant deficit of infrastructure, especially in water supply coverage.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators:
1.2.1 The development objective of the Project was to promote the well being of low income
communities of NWFP by: (a) supporting investments in community development activities,
basic services and small scale productive infrastructure; and (b) strengthening capacities at the
newly devolved local government and community levels, to plan and deliver such services and
infrastructure.


1
   Tehsil is a sub-division of a District; a district usually has 3-5 tehsils with some exceptions (e.g., 2 tehsils, or
   occasionally 6 tehsils in a district). Union Councils are wards of about 25,000 people
2
  The LGO in NWFP was amended in 2008 resulting in major changes to the decentralized systems and institutions
   through which the project was implemented and aimed to strengthen. This amendment redefined the three tiers of
   local bodies as Local Councils. However, CCBs remain as legally registered community organizations.
3
   The province has been officially renamed as Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa Province

                                                          1
1.2.2    The Outcome Indicators listed in the Results Framework at the appraisal were:
         (i)      Communities through the Citizen Community Boards (CCBs) are organized and
                  participating throughout the project from planning through implementation to
                  operation and maintenance (O&M);
         (ii)     Increase in Local bodies’ capacity to work with communities;
         (iii)    Incidences of water borne diseases decreased;
         (iv)     Household (HH) income improved; and
         (v)      Time savings due to infrastructure schemes achieved.
1.2.3 The immediate outcomes expected to result from the project as envisaged at the appraisal
were:
      (i)   Provision of improved infrastructure and services to local communities at lower
            cost with sustainable O&M mechanism;
      (ii)  Creation and strengthening of CCBs, enabling local residents to effectively
            participate in development;
      (iii) Better performance of newly elected local governments in service delivery and in
            mobilizing and building the capacity of CCBs as measured by the number of
            Tehsils qualified to participate in the program; and
      (iv)  More effective governance through improvements in operations, monitoring and
            evaluation, and financial and budgetary procedures.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification
1.3.1 The PDO remained unchanged throughout the project period. The five Outcome
Indicators at the appraisal were revised once, during the mid-term review (MTR). Two indicators
were dropped (on incidence of water borne diseases and time saving due to infrastructure)
leaving household income as the main indicator to measure improvements in well-being. The
Intermediate Outcome Indicators were not revised. The agreed four Outcome Indications were as
follows:
         (i)      Communities through CCBs are organized and participating from project planning
                  to O&M;
         (ii)     HH income improved;
         (iii)    Lower per capita cost of schemes as compared to government implemented
                  infrastructure; and
         (iv)     Increased TMA responsiveness and accountability towards communities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
1.4.1 The project aimed to cover members of 586 communities under all 61 Tehsil Municipal
Administrations (TMA) of the Government of NWFP (GoNWFP). The number of target
beneficiaries was undefined in the PAD due to project’s demand driven nature. According to the
data provided by the Project, it covered a total of 188,650 HHs or 1.32 million individuals
(assuming 7 persons per HH).
1.4.2 The selection of communities was the responsibility of TMAs and priority was given to
those communities that demonstrated a good match with the following nine eligibility criteria4:

4
    Details of the criteria, see PAD pg 68.

                                                 2
(1) Legal Registration; (2) Representative and Participatory CCBs; (3) Agreeing with the CIP II
approach and methodology; (4) 20% Community Contribution; (5) Adequate Female
Representation; (6) Council Meetings; (7) Formulation of sub-committees: (8) Willingness to
work with the TMA; and (9) Willingness to undergo capacity building.

1.5 Original Components
1.5.1 The project had three components as follows:
Component 1: Local Infrastructure and Services (US$42.75 million)
1.5.2 This component aimed at increasing access to basic infrastructure and services of the rural
and peri-urban communities in NWFP. It involved the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, the
construction of new infrastructure, and its operation and maintenance (O&M). Priorities were to
be established in consultation with the CCBs, recognizing that overall priority would be accorded
to rehabilitation and O&M. A menu of infrastructure that could be provided was presented to the
participating communities. The PAD estimated that about 30% of the finance would be allocated
to Primary Infrastructure (complex sub-projects constructed by contractors, usually benefiting
more than one community), while the estimate for Secondary Infrastructure (smaller schemes
constructed by communities themselves) was about 70%.
Component 2: Improving Local Level Performance (US$ 4.23 million)
1.5.3    This component had two distinct sub-components:
        Institutional Strengthening: This sub-component provided implementation support,
        training and equipment to local government institutions, particularly at the Tehsil level, to
        enable them to administer effectively their local service programs, fiscal and budgetary
        management, and prepare participatory community infrastructure plans.

        Community Development Activities: This sub-component provided implementation
        support, training and equipment to support the activities of CCBs and communities to build
        the capacity of local residents to support their own development through awareness of and
        participation in community development approaches, infrastructure development, health
        and hygiene, and special support to women and children and the vulnerable groups in the
        community.
1.5.4 The provision of support to both TMAs and CCBs was considered essential to the
decentralization effort and, particularly, the effort to transfer much of the responsibility for
implementing sub-projects to TMAs and communities through specific capacity development
programs. The inputs of the component were provision of technical assistance, training and
equipment to local governments, particularly TMAs. The outcome envisaged was the
development of a growing number of TMAs that would be able to assist CCBs effectively.
Component 3: Implementation Support, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 5.43 million)
1.5.5 This component aimed to provide technical support to the execution of the entire project
to ensure quality of basic infrastructure sub-projects, capacity building of implementing partner
organizations, and overall project control. At the Tehsil/UC level, support was provided for pre-
investment activities and activities that were not included in the sub-project costs, such as
technical designs, field support and supervision during execution of subprojects, and physical

                                                   3
inspection. At the PCSU level, support was directed towards activities to monitor, supervise,
evaluate and audit the implementation and functioning of the overall project. It also supported the
provision of computer hardware and software.

1.6 Revised Components
1.6.1 The above-mentioned three project components were not revised throughout the project
period although the project costs per component were reduced due to the reduction in IDA credit.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
1.7.1 The credit amount was reduced to approximately US$ 25 million (IDA) as US$ 12.5
million were reallocated to the NWFP Emergency Recovery Project Part Z on the request of the
Borrower (GOP).5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1 The project responded to GoNWFP’s priorities as well as local communities’ needs in
improving community infrastructure. It reflects CAS’s strategic pillars aligning with GOP’s
strategy on devolution. The project design was built on the experiences of the Bank’s Community
Infrastructure Project (CIP-I) that completed in 2003. It also reflected experiences gained from
pilot sub-projects with eight TMAs carried out during CIP-I; at the same time, the insights gained
were incorporated into the operation manual and the capacity building program for TMAs, UCs,
and CCBs. There were several issues that negatively affected project implementation during the
CIP-I; therefore, the PAD laid out a set of Governance Covenants with mitigation measures
against potential risks.
2.1.2 However, the CIP-II appraisal was ambitious and overestimated the commitment of
GoNWFP. It also overlooked other key implementation arrangements including: (i) logistical
support in the field; (ii) administrative, financial, and budgetary procedures; (iii) PCSU’s
management capacity, including establishment of an effective M&E system; and (iv) persistent
doubts among government staff regarding decentralized service delivery and Community Driven
Development (CD) .

2.2 Implementation
2.2.1 The project faced several constraints some of which were inherited from the CIP-I.
Similar issues re-surfaced during CIP-II. The following were the major constraints that affected
implementation of CIP-II:




5
    At the time of the reduction of the credit amount, the Bank indicated to the PSCU that the Board would be
    approached about additional finance if this was required before the end of the project. Subsequently, an IDA
    mission informed the GoNWFP that it would need an agreement in the MTR before the Bank would consider a
    request for restoration of the original credit amount, but this would not be guaranteed (especially in the context of
    fully committed IDA allocations for Pakistan) and be subject to EAD approval on the use of IDA.

                                                            4
    Institutional Issues
        GoNWFP’s insufficient commitment on the Project: frequent changes of the Project
         Director - 11 times during the project period;
        Underestimation of TMA’s workload: Many of the TMAs also had other donor assisted
         projects (i.e. DFID-assisted Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, and ADB-assisted NWF
         Urban Development Projects) in addition to the CIP-II that were running in parallel to or
         on top of their normative mandate including Tameer-e-Sarhad Program, their own annual
         development plans, and tasks additionally assigned by the local parliamentarians;
        Late recruitment of project staff and consultants: it took more than 1.5 years to start
         recruiting project staff and consultants including Social Organizers (SOs);
        High staff turnover: the salaries and incentives provided to project staff and consultants
         (including SOs) were not attractive; with many other and attractive job-opportunities in
         the region, the turnover was very high;
        Little incentive for field visits for TMA staff : apart from the monthly salaries, TMA
         staff involved in the Project were not provided with field visit allowances to monitor and
         evaluate work of CCBs, which did not help in improving TMA staff performance for
         project implementation;

     Implementation Logistics
        Shortages of logistical support in the field: the project procured 10 vehicles as planned,
         but many of vehicles procured were not appropriate for demands of field work in the
         region (i.e. Suzuki sedans); secondly, project staff including TMA staff and SOs were
         mostly hard pressed to find proper logistic support;
        Geographical diversity of the Province: large parts of the province are mountainous
         areas and project implementation and coordination entities with low logistical support
         (often equipped with old and unserviceable vehicles) faced difficulties in carrying out
         field work;

     Administrative Procedures
        Lengthy administrative, financial, and budgetary procedures: an estimate by the
         PCSU suggests that the procedure to approve a Community Action Plan (CAPs) took
         more than six months, sometimes up to one year, involving CCBs, TMAs, Districts,
         RCSU, PCSU, and Province; disbursement of funds was delayed and affected by multiple
         bureaucratic layers and rigid decision-making processes;

     CD Process and Gender
        Inconsistency of CD process: Guidelines and criteria were not always properly followed
         in the CCB selection and CD implementation by SOs and TMAs (as a case study6
         suggests);


6
    PCSU, 2007, Case Study Report No.4, TMA Timergara

                                                   5
         Inadequate flow of information: there is little evidence that key instructions and
          guidelines were communicated; for example, the MTR recommendations to improve CD
          performance through a social appraisal mechanism at TMA level was notified by the
          LG&RDD but was not adequately shared across project implementation and
          administration levels, including TMAs and SOs;
         Lack of congruence of Project and community interests: while the design of the
          project focused on institutionalization of CD processes and community capacity building,
          the communities were more interested in physical infrastructure;
         Insufficient commitment to gender mainstreaming: many of the field staff were not
          convinced of the need and importance of gender mainstreaming in the CD process, and as
          mentioned below in “Internal Security?, it became increasingly difficult for the Project to
          have an effective approach for gender mainstreaming;

     Political Intervention
         Local political intervention: while supporting the LGO as well as allocating 10% of
          budget from TMAs for CCB’s sub-projects, the Project inevitably faced political
          influence in some cases in the selection of subprojects by the communities, or favoring
          certain CCBs over the others;

     Internal Security
         Worsening security situation: due to the worsening security situation (i) the Bank staff
          were unable to make field supervision visits outside of Peshawar since 2008; (ii) one
          project staff was kidnapped during the project implementation period; (iii) CD and
          gender mainstreaming activities were seen as anti-religion by militants in certain areas
          and project staff constantly received threats; and (iv) while there is no accurate estimate,
          some infrastructure constructed by the Project was destroyed in the Swat7 valley.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
2.3.1 Design:           According to the PAD, “a participatory and flexible M&E system? was to
be established, building upon the experience of CIP-I and focussing on transparency through
direct flow of information. Each tier (CCBs, TMAs, RCSU) was to monitor performance at
different levels. The system, composed of (i) Tehsil Level Performance Management System;
and (ii) Project Monitoring, was designed to ensure independence and triangulation of
information through various sources. A baseline survey was planned to be carried out at the onset
of the project and a beneficiary assessment survey at the end to measure impacts of the project.
Process monitoring and effective communication was also designed to establish learning
processes where TMAs and CCBs could share and learn best practices from each other. A set of
indicators was established in the PAD for the results framework.
2.3.2 Implementation:       The planned M&E system was not fully implemented although the
project M&E section was fully staffed with a Deputy Director M&E (who also had experience of

7
    The completion rate of CCB sub-projects in the Swat RSCU was the lowest of all the nine regions, as only 47%
    of sub-projects could be completed and 53% were closed prematurely; whereas the overall completion rate of all
    sub-projects was 85%.

                                                         6
work with CIP-I) supported by one Assistant Director M&E, one Assistant Director MIS, and
two Data Entry Operators. However, there was no specific M&E staff assigned to RCSU/TMAs.
The M&E section depended on reports received from RCSUs and TMAs. However, data
gathering at the field level was conducted without a data quality assurance system, and often
these reports were irregularly submitted. Each section at the PCSU had its own independent data
management system, which was not inter-linked with the other sections. This disconnected and
unsystematic data collection resulted in several information inconsistencies and weaker analysis
at the PCSU level.
2.3.3 On its part, the PCSU did try to establish a Management Information System (MIS) by
outsourcing the work to a company. Due to the unexpected departure of the senior manager of the
company, the system was never completed. Instead, the Project M&E section handled data by
computer-based Excel spreadsheets, which served as a substitute for the MIS. Although a
baseline was prepared, the data was not available until the midterm of the project. The Project
remained focused on inputs, outputs, financial disbursement, and progress of construction of
schemes, with insufficient attention paid to community-based process monitoring.
2.3.4 M&E was a key subject during all Bank supervision missions, including the MTR, but
remained relatively weak despite these inputs. However, project staff were involved in a review
of the results framework before the MTR and changes to the indicators were agreed with the
Bank and increasingly reported upon through the QPRs. While the data collection methods were
able to track overall progress in terms of infrastructure schemes delivered and the community
actions plans prepared and approved by TMAs (i.e. the intermediate outcomes), the data was not
sufficient to measure the achievement of other PDO indicators, particularly improvements in
household incomes.
2.3.5 A positive aspect of Project’s M&E implementation was that the Project carried out
several case studies including CCB sustainability study and a third party validation (TPV) study
to monitor performance of RCSUs, TMAs and CCBs. These studies proved useful in process
monitoring. The reports illustrate achievements and highlight issues in implementation, providing
some good recommendations for improvement. The Deputy Director M&E also provided
invaluable continuity to the project during the frequent changes to the project’s Director General,
bringing institutional memory on both CIP-II and the predecessor CIP-I.
2.3.4 Utilization: The lack of a sound M&E system meant that it could not be utilized for
improving Project performance. The baseline survey was also not effectively used to measure
improvements in the socio-economic status of the target communities. The slow progress in
developing the M&E system affected the quality of various operations, as noted in several Aide
Memoires of the Bank Supervision missions. The lack of “a participatory and flexible M&E
system? was substituted by case studies. The inadequate implementation of CD processes
throughout the project period also indicates that useful information provided by the case studies
to the PCSU was probably not used to improve Project’s participatory approach, particularly for
CCBs’ capacity building.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management
2.4.1 Despite the fact that no Bank mission was able to visit the field after 2008 due to the
worsening security situation in the province, no instance of fraud or corruption was observed
                                                7
throughout the project period. The client was requested to visit Islamabad for reviews as security
situation worsened in the province. The Project applied similar financial management system as
was used in CIP-I and staff in the Finance Section were accustomed to the system. The
involvement of TMAs in CIP-II created some initial confusion, but these were gradually resolved
over time and with experiences gained. It is important to note, however, that the involvement of
TMAs added extra bureaucratic layers and procedures, including financial audits conducted by
the provincial audit department, all of which decreased transaction efficiencies and increased
work load of the PCSU Finance Section. The Section used manual books of account and Excel
spread-sheets for financial book-keeping, which included information on types of schemes
constructed, including dates of disbursement of funds; this served as the master database used for
the ICR analysis. Quality Assessment Group review was conducted in 2008, which gave a
“Satisfactory? rating to financial management.
2.4.2 Each CCB was supposed to conduct an annual audit by private (certified) accountants and
submit financial reports to TMAs. Such independent auditing was conducted by CCBs with delay
and after rigorous follow up. According to the Project data, about 30% of CCBs submitted their
financial reports.
2.4.3 Fiduciary Compliance: In terms of fiduciary compliance, detailed review of financial
management arrangements/risk assessment was done at the time of appraisal. Project staff
received guidance on Bank policies on financial management and auditing arrangements during
implementation reviews. Financial management reviews were conducted on a regular basis in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
2.4.4 Bank Performance: Bank’s performance and quality at the Entry level was well organized
and satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Bank ‘Country Assistance Strategy’ (CAS)
and was designed based on the lessons learned on other Bank - funded water management
projects in Pakistan. From the financial management aspect, Bank performance during
supervision was satisfactory as detailed reviews were carried out during implementation reviews
and actions agreed to improve financial management. This included training from the Bank
financial management specialists. However, the project could not be visited in latter part of the
project life due to security reasons and the client had to be requested to come to Islamabad for
desk review.
 2.4.5 Borrower’s Performance: The Government’s financial management system used for the
project was satisfactory. Detailed reviews were carried out during implementation and actions
agreed to improve the project financial management system. Staffing, internal controls,
maintenance of proper books of accounts including IDA Special bank account, fund flow were
generally adequate. Acceptable annual audited financial statements of the project were generally
submitted by the due date and auditors’ opinion was some time unqualified and some time
qualified. Project’s response to resolve audit paras was slow, which resulted in recovery of PKR
8.79 million against FY’09 audit observations. Acceptable quarterly financial reports were
received but with delay on some occasions. Borrower’s funds were made available for the project
implementation as required under the legal agreement. Some funds were transferred out of the
project for earthquake recovery operations. Audit reports were received for this operation. The
implementing agency was generally compliant with the financial covenants. However, there was
an instance of discontinuation of disbursement against SOEs because of late receipt of audited
financial statements for FY’08.


                                                8
2.4.6 QAG conducted a Quality Assurance of the Lending Portfolio (QALP) review of the
project in 2008 that gave a Satisfactory rating on financial management. It appreciated FM
supervision efforts and results achieved.
2.4.7 From the financial management aspect of the project, a couple of lessons can be drawn:
Continuity of staff plays an important role in effective financial management; and due importance
should be given to financial management.
Disbursement
2.4.8 Throughout the life of the project, the project staff was provided continuous guidance
with regard to withdrawal of funds procedures to be followed under the Credit, and flow funds
remained smooth, despite some discontinuation of disbursement due to late receipt of audited
financial statements. By the Closing Date, due to exchange losses there was short fall in the
outstanding advance of the Designated Account established under the Credit. This shortfall was
recovered by the project by substituting equivalent eligible expenditures incurred out of the own
resources.
2.4.9 Bank Performance: Being the repeater project, the Bank’s performance remained
satisfactory and funds were provided up-front. There had never been shortage of funds problem
as far as the Bank is concerned. Bank’s performance during implementation was satisfactory.
However, during the later part due to security constraints, there were gaps in carrying out the
SOE reviews. Under such circumstances, the project staff had to visit to Islamabad Office and it
was difficult for them to bring all the supporting documentation along.
 2.4.10 Borrower’s Performance: Total portfolio had been suffering from the issue of the
exchange losses, and this project was also one of the victims. The project adjusted the
outstanding advances in their Designated Account by incurring equivalent eligible expenditures
out of their own resources. Funds were withdrawn under the Credit following the procedures laid
down in the disbursement letter and in accordance with the terms and condition of the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.4.11 Lessons Learned:
      Recovery of the outstanding advance should be started at an early stage to avoid problems
       like the exchange losses and bank staff should closely monitor the available balance in the
       DA in both currencies i.e. PAK and or US Dollars; and
      SOE review should be carried out on regular basis to avoid reimbursement on account of
       ineligible expenditures.
Procurement
2.4.12 The procurement procedures in general followed the Bank’s procurement guidelines as
agreed between the GoNWFP and the Bank. Community procurement were also in general
satisfactorily implemented according to the procurement guidelines. However, there were
incidences where evidences of purchase were not well organized by the CCBs. These cases were
usually resolved by re-issuance of evidences and/or reduction of the sum from the total payments
due to communities. Selection of contractors and issuance of contracts for primary infrastructure
construction was done by TMAs following the agreed procedure, under the supervision of RCSU
and PCSU. The role played by CCBs in the construction of primary infrastructure was minimal,
involving quality check of works completed.


                                                9
Environmental Management
2.4.13 The project generally complied with the Bank’s environmental safeguard policies though
it needed regular support from the Bank. There were no major un-resolved environmental issues
associated with the community infrastructure subprojects, and the overall environment
performance of the project was moderately satisfactory.
2.4.14 No large scale impacts and no significant cumulative impacts were anticipated at the time
of the project appraisal, since the size of the infrastructure sub-projects under the CIP-II project
were limited. The project was rated as Environmental Category “B?. An Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) was prepared and disclosed prior to appraisal, in accordance
with the Bank’s environmental safeguard requirements.
2.4.15 The EMF included generic mitigation measures, provided checklists, and outlined
monitoring arrangements. Training and capacity building activities were also included in the
EMF. The EMF called for environmental screening to be carried out for each of the subproject
before its approval and for environmental mitigation measures to be included in the PC-Is of the
subprojects.
2.4.16 An Environmental Consultant (EC) was appointed within the PCSU in Peshawar to
ensure implementation of the EMF during the project execution. The EC was responsible for the
environmental screening of subprojects, inclusion of the mitigation measures in the PC-Is, and for
organizing and conducting environmental trainings at the RCSU and community levels. The EC
was also responsible for carrying out environmental monitoring of the on-going as well as
completed schemes during field visits.
2.4.17 Initially, the environmental performance of the project was weak, primarily because of the
lack of environmental awareness and capacity at the PCSU, RCSU and at the community levels.
However, with the help of the environmental awareness-raising sessions and trainings conducted
at the PCSU, RCSU, and community levels, the situation gradually improved. The
environmental screening that was not carried out initially was made part of the scheme
designing/preparation process, and the environmental mitigation measures started to be included
in the PC-Is – in compliance with the EMF requirements. In this context, the QALP noted that
integration of environmental screening and management measures into sub-project formulation
was still weak although improving, and also that since MTR monitoring of environmental aspects
was slowly improving.
2.4.18 The frequency and effectiveness of environmental monitoring increased during the course
of the project execution. As a result, implementation of the environmental mitigation measures
in the field, and hence the environmental performance of the schemes, gradually improved.
2.4.19 To further strengthen the environmental performance of the CIP-II project, a team of
environmental specialists was engaged to carry out a detailed environmental audit of the
completed as well as on-going schemes. This audit highlighted some unmitigated environmental
issues, and recommended actions/measures to address these issues.
2.4.20 The Bank’s supervision consistently raised the weaknesses and shortcomings in EMF
implementation, and supported the project in addressing and overcoming these issues. Guidance
and support was provided to the project on a regular basis to improve and implement the
environmental screening checklists, environmental mitigation measures, capacity building
programs, environmental monitoring methodologies, and reporting formats.

                                                 10
Social Safeguards
2.4.21 The project complied with the Bank’s Social Safeguard Policies and there were no major
issues observed. The project did not envisage any resettlement or impact on any indigenous
people and cultural property. There were no known indigenous people in the project except for
the Kalash in Chitral and the project did not undertake any intervention in this area. OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement also did not apply to this project as only schemes in which land or
property was voluntarily donated or made available through formal legal transfers was eligible
for project financing.
2.4.22 A detailed Social Assessment was carried out by the Local Government and Rural
Development Department (LGRDD) of the North West Frontier Province during preparation of
the project and drew upon primary and secondary information through consultation workshops
with all stakeholders including TMAs, Tehsil Nazims, NGOs, CBOs, Government of NWFP,
staff of LGRDD, communities of CIP-I and some CIP-II and civil society.
2.4.23 A detailed gender assessment was included as part of the Social Assessment and based on
key findings of the assessment specific measures were recommended for improving participation
of women, children and other marginalized groups. In addition, given the community based
approach of CIP-II, the Assessment also highlighted the need for strong monitoring and
evaluation system that can assess the extent and quality of community participation as well as
outreach of the envisaged benefits to all members and particularly the most marginalized people
within the communities and in the more remote areas. A grievance redress mechanism was also
put in place to formalize complaint recording and handling process as an integral part of
improving the business processes of LGRDD.
2.4.24 Social development issues are at the heart of the PDO. The target beneficiary group were
low income communities, and the project components support local infrastructure and service
provision and capacity building for municipal (teshil) governments to deliver services through a
participatory framework and process. There was also a capacity building subcomponent for
support to women, children and the most vulnerable groups. Bank supervision consistently
flagged issues related to the implementation of community driven processes. While there has
been some progress on M&E and reporting systems - and no major social safeguard issues were
encountered - the monitoring system could have been managed more systematically. Similarly,
while attention was paid to the quality of CBB mobilization and of social development
interventions, there was considerable scope for improvement. The third-party verification
exercise was useful in highlighting social and other issues that needed to be strengthened.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase
2.5.1 The GoNWFP is keen and committed to embark upon a follow-on project that builds
upon the CIP-I and II experiences. For this purpose, a concept paper for the Community
Development Project in NWFP was formulated, and processed by the GoNWFP/GOP, following
which a Planning Commission (PC) -1 has also been prepared. It has been submitted to the
Economic Affairs Division (EAD) of GOP and informally to the Bank. Following its clearance
by the Central Development Working Party by the federal government, the GoNWFP plans to
make a formal request to the Bank for assistance in project preparation. The GoNWFP
maintained the CIP-II office at the time of ICR mission and majority of the core Project staff
including GoNWFP and Project staff, in anticipation of the third phase of the Project. However, it

                                                11
would be important to review the lessons from CIP-II and ensure that the design of any follow-up
project has robust implementation arrangements that are better suited to the security environment
in the province, the new roles of local government bodies as well as a much stronger M&E
system.

3. Assessment of Outcomes8

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of Objectives
3.1.1 Anecdotal evidence from field visits, information from the stakeholder workshops, and
interviews of TMA officials conducted by the ICR mission confirm that the PDO remains highly
relevant. Improving the reliability and quality of services and of community maintained
infrastructure remains a high priority. However, it is unclear whether the associated objective to
strengthen decentralized systems and institutions remains relevant under the current policy
direction and interests at various levels, including the GoNWFP and CCBs. Changes in
decentralization policy and local government system started happening during the final years of
the Project. This further undermined the commitment to implement the TMA strengthening part
of the Project. Because of their weakening control from the province over CCBs, senior officers
at the GoNWFP as well as PCSU appeared to be more in favor of the CIP-I rather than the CIP-II
approach. Although they agree on the importance of the role that TMAs could potentially play in
participatory approach, they also believe that the greater role played by the UCs led to local
political intervention in area/community selection. At the same time, senior officers in the
GoNWFP and TMAs doubt future commitments of TMAs to participatory approach and gender
mainstreaming under the worsening security situation and prevailing culture in the province.
Relevance of Design
3.1.2 The project design was built upon CAS and GOP strategies while translating them into
project activities. However, it failed to; (i) prepare realistic countermeasures against issues raised
during the CIP-I; (ii) formulate feasible institutional arrangements for implementation, including
provision of necessary logistical support in the field; and (iii) assure GoNWFP’s commitment to
the institutional change aspects of the Project. The project activities were to start with Component
2, but the slow progress in strengthening TMA capacity and skills, as well as delays in SO
recruitment meant that participatory processes did not follow the path envisaged in the PAD.
3.1.3 Although the community cash contribution arrangement for the sub-projects was intended
to strengthen community ownership and sustainability, there were concerns among some project
staff that it may have increased the risk of excluding poor communities that were unable to match
up with the community share. It was noted through interviews with some beneficiaries that such
8
    This ICR report was prepared based on two FAO missions: one in October 2009 and the other in May 2010. The
    first mission was aborted in the middle of its work due to the blast of the WFP Office in Islamabad. With an UN
    security clearance, the second mission fielded in May-Jun 2010 for a period of two weeks. The mission
    conducted: (i) two stake holder workshops: one in Peshawar and the other in Islamabad (see Annex 6); (ii) field
    visits to a relatively safe district (Haripur); (iii) a series of meetings with PCSU and other beneficiaries both in
    Islamabad and Peshawar; and (iv) documents and data review. It has to be noted, therefore, this mission’s
    assessment was carried out under restrained circumstances due to the security situation. After the field visits, the
    mission exchanged numerous communications mainly with the Bank and the PCSU staff to verify data and
    information provided to the mission.

                                                           12
an approach put extra burden on the poor and vulnerable groups in the communities. However,
this would require further analysis. In some cases, they were unable to contribute in cash and
provided labor instead, which was mostly not formally accounted for.There is no definite
estimate available for the in-kind contribution from the poor,9 but these processes of cash and in-
kind contribution may have served to reinforce the local political structures where better-off
families have a greater say than the poor and vulnerable.
3.1.4 The use of Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR) prepared in 1999 for construction
estimates caused confusions in CCB sub-project implementation. The 1999 CSR is far below the
market rates and underestimates the proportion of labor requirement. The CSR recognizes 15%
profit margin to be awarded to private contractors; the non-profit nature of community
procurement and implementation of sub-projects meant that the PCSU deducted 15% from the
total cost estimates based on the CSR; such portion might have covered some portions of
unexpected costs. According to the Project, there are CCBs that were not given 87% premium
(set by the GoNWFP to adjust prices) of the 1999 CSR, whereas these CCBs that were
responsible to construct secondary works prepared based on 1999 CSR. As a result, they had to
bear unexpected costs including price hike, notably happened during 2008.
 Relevance of Implementation
3.1.5 It is still important for CCBs to prioritize, undertake and maintain community physical
infrastructure and to be able demand services from local government. TMAs or their successor
also need to be responsive to community needs However, under the current circumstances found
in NWFP and changing local government framework, it would be difficult to embed a
participatory approach within the TMA’s work.
3.1.6 The project supported decentralization, but the centralized administrative, financial, and
budgetary procedures adopted by the Project were not conducive for the purpose. It was therefore
counterproductive to the basic philosophy of decentralization, and caused delays in approval,
implementation, and funds disbursal.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective
3.2.1 The overarching aim of the project was to promote the well-being of low income
communities by achieving two complementary objectives:
(a) supporting investments in community development activities, basic and small scale
productive infrastructure
3.2.2 The Project was able to form 648 CCBs; carried out 647 sub-projects (one sub-project
was declared as dropped); and completed 551 sub-projects with 1,221 schemes as planned. These
figures are higher than the revised targets, and the quality of infrastructure is in general
satisfactory.10 The Project also supported 96 CCBs to construct additional 210 schemes (15% of
all schemes), although these schemes were completed with reduced sizes due to shortages of
funds (i.e. length of street paved). In total, the project benefited around190,000 HHs or 1.3
million persons in 647 CCBs as a result of implementing of 1,431 infrastructure schemes. This
comprised approximately 132 km of link roads (179 schemes), 1,479,000 km2 of street

9
     There were some observations from interviews that the poor might have actually ended up contributing more with
     their in-kind contributions in order to complete the schemes for benefit of their communities.
10
     The Third Party Validation Report (pg 5-12).

                                                        13
pavements (548 schemes), 488 km of drainage (463 schemes), 221 water supply schemes and 20
other schemes.
3.2.3 Through the adoption of decentralized procedures, the Project was able to enhance
GoNWFP’s accountability and transparency through the establishment of operational, financial
and budgeting procedures in project implementation. However, this created multiple bureaucratic
layers and reduced the efficiency of decision-making and implementation. While structures for
decentralization were introduced in the Project, decision-making powers were not sufficiently
devolved down to the lower levels.
3.2.4 While the O&M of completed sub-projects as a system is not well established across the
CCBs, there is an obvious high interest to maintain community based infrastructure among CCBs.
There needs to have a closer monitoring on infrastructure built by the Project even after the
termination of the Project, but the ICR’s assessment is that the lack of formal O&M systems may
not directly undermine the sustainability of such infrastructure. This observation is supported by
reports of the current condition of community infrastructure constructed during CIP-I.
(b) strengthening capacity at the new developed local government (TMAs) and community
levels to plan and deliver such services and infrastructure
3.2.5 The Project failed to deliver PDO’s institutional and capacity development objective for
TMAs although the CCBs did successfully plan and implement the community infrastructure
schemes. According to the data provided by the project, a total of PKR 0.2 million (or 5%) was
spent of the originally allocated budget (PKR 3.7 million) for TMA staff training (see Annex 1,
Table 8 for more details). The majority of TMA trainings were conducted during 2008 and 2009,
towards the end of the Project. There was no training conducted for PCSU and RCSU staff – the
Project provided only exposure visits. In contrast, the budget for TMA strengthening through
logistical support (i.e. equipment) was fully utilized. While equipment is undoubtedly an
important element of TMA institutional development, there was a clear need to address the
behavioural and other skills of the newly formed TMAs so that they were better able to respond
to community based plans.
3.2.6 In terms of CCB capacity development, the project undertook a total of 2,559 capacity
building events but spent only around PKR 20 million (US$ 235,000) against the expenditure
plan of PKR 67 million (US$ 790,000) or approximately 30% of the originally allocated budget.
The number of trainees and outcomes of the training remains unclear as there are many data
inconsistencies due to M&E issues described in Section 2.3 above.

3.3 Efficiency
3.3.1 Due to security constraints on the ICR mission’s ability to collect data through field visits,
this analysis provides only indicative figures. It is based mainly on data provided by the PCSU
Finance Section, and similar data gathered from other projects including the Pakistan Poverty
Alleviation Fund (PPAF) Project, AJK-CISP, and NWFP CIP-I. An ex-post analysis of the
schemes has been undertaken based on the input costs (including community and TMA
contributions) and benefits. The input costs relate to construction and maintenance, and the
benefits stem from savings in vehicle operation costs and lesser travel time, opening up of areas
for economic activity, lower medical costs attributed to a hygienic environment, and productive
use of time saved. An analysis was made for each scheme and results computed by using
aggregated weights assigned on the basis of investments made in different types of schemes. The
                                                14
results indicate that the investments were economically viable for all schemes with Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) ranging from 15.8% for street pavements to 19.2% for the water
schemes.
3.3.2 The works executed are classified as ‘Primary works’ or ‘Secondary works’. Primary
works involved complex infrastructure sub-projects constructed by contractors, usually benefiting
more than one community, which include road construction with or without street
pavement/drains. Water supply, street pavement and drains are generally categorized as
‘Secondary works’. The road schemes are the up-gradation of already existing pathways (black
topping) used by members as well as the non members of more than one community. Street
pavement/drains are the highest priority of communities (38% funds utilized), followed by drains
(32%), water supply (15%) and roads (13%). Out of the scheme menu enlisted in the PAD, no
scheme relating to latrines, street lighting, street and house signage/numbering were constructed.
3.3.3 A ceiling of PKR 12,000 per beneficiary HH was fixed in the PAD for water supply
schemes, while total cost per HH was not to exceed PKR 20,000. The information regarding
beneficiary HHs is not available individually for each scheme. However, taking the total
beneficiaries as 188,650 and total schemes, average cost per HH is PKR 10,600 which is within
the beneficiary HH ceiling and about half of the total cost per HH fixed in the PAD. The overall
EIRR of the project inclusive of overheads and support staff cost, is estimated about 17% which
suggests that the implementation of schemes was cost effective and economically viable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
3.4.1 About 87% of the Project funds were spent for infrastructure development, while less than
7% were spent for support to decentralization and capacity building of TMAs and CCBs.
Although it is important to consider the resource allocation in deciding the overall rating, the ICR
regards each of PDO’s two sub-sets of the objective as being equal in weight11 for achievement
of the overall outcome. Project’s achievement to PDO is summarized as follows:
        (a) supporting investments in community development activities, basic and small scale
            productive infrastructure:                Moderately Satisfactory
        (b) strengthening capacity at the new developed TMAs and community levels to plan and
            deliver such services and infrastructure: Unsatisfactory

3.4.2 The GoNWFP and project implementers largely did not follow the sequence of Project
activities as planned in the PAD. Gender mainstreaming as well as the participatory spirit in
implementation were well articulated in the PAD, but implementation of these was rather weak
throughout the project period. Nevertheless, the successful completion of infrastructure
development (including 179 roads, 548 street pavements, 463 drainage, and 221 water supply
schemes benefitting around 190,000 HHs) suggests that TMAs and CCBs were capable of
carrying out the complex 647 sub-projects with support from PCSU and RCSUs.


11
    While the two parts of the PDO do not necessarily have the same weight age from a budget perspective (81%
funds were for the infrastructure component and 11% for the local institutional capacity building component), the
latter is a critical pre-requisite of the former. Therefore equal weight age of both the parts is justified.


                                                        15
3.4.3 Anecdotal evidences gathered through interviews with GoNWFP staff as well as the
ICR’s visits to some sites constructed under CIP-I and PPAF demonstrate that infrastructure built
under similar conditions are being still well maintained, and people’s interests in the
sustainability of the assets have been created12. It cannot therefore be concluded that only full
adherence to project defined CD process and training was needed to ensure the sustainability of
community-based infrastructure in the NWFP. Further, the capacities of TMAs and CCBs
developed while implementing the sub-projects cannot be underestimated, thanks largely to
motivated individual leaderships within such communities. There is anecdotal evidence that some
of the CCBs have already started getting projects from other sources using their skills and CAPs
developed during the Project.
3.4.4 The PAD devoted considerable attention to describing Component 2 and its strategies for
capacity building of TMAs and CCBs. However, the results of Component 2 do not support that
the Project entirely achieved this sub-set of the objective. In addition, the Project M&E remained
weak throughout the Project.
3.4.5 It is clear that the Project intended to build the foundations of community participation in
infrastructure development. CCBs were committed to their sub-projects and the Project brought
beneficial changes in the communities through CCBs (as described in para 3.5.5). It is important
to note that TMAs were able to support CCBs in completing the sub-projects. The worsening
security situation in the province also has to be taken into account in assessing the Project
performance - for example, the Project staff received threats from militants time to time. To be
seen as an international financed project that promotes gender-mainstreaming was a risk for field
staff. Security continued to deteriorate during the final years of the project and the 13 month
period between the exit ISR and the ICR completion. Militancy and the military operations
undertaken in the province as well as the devastating floods in July 2010 affected the
communities and the community physical infrastructure supported through this project. The
overall economy and the livelihoods of low income households targeted by this project have also
suffered and the project’s M&E system is not able to assess the improvements in household
incomes. In addition, major changes in local government ordinance on the decentralized
institutions strengthened through the project further undermined the achievements under the
capacity strengthening component. As a result, the overall outcome at the time of ICR is rated as
“Moderately Unsatisfactory?.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty Impacts
3.5.1 Although a baseline was prepared by the project, the monitoring system was not able to
measure improvements in poverty indicators such as household income, access to clean drinking
water and incidence in water borne diseases. Because of security restrictions, the ICR mission
was also not able to collect necessary information from community members to make an
assessment of the impact of CIP schemes in terms of reduction in poverty. The assessment is
therefore based on the beneficiary consultations.


12
     This is supported by a recent review of community infrastructure projects in Pakistan, supported through the CIP
      II, AJK CISP and the PPAF-II projects (Halcrow, November 2010)

                                                           16
3.5.2 The CIP-II schemes implemented under the project addressed local needs and ensured
access of local communities to social and economic services. The water supply schemes, for
example, have not only provided safer and cleaner drinking water, but also helped save women’s
time in fetching water for household consumption, thus reducing their drudgery. Roads and street
pavements have ensured easier access of local people to social, economic and other opportunities
such as for marketing of products as well as reduced cost of goods purchased, due to the better
access to villages. It is also likely that the CIP-II schemes have contributed to increased
disposable income levels of individual households due to time saving and less expenditure on
medicines and medical services.
Gender Aspects
3.5.3 Gender mainstreaming could be done in NWFP, albeit in the context of area-specific
norms and demand driven activities including capacity building of target groups. As described in
para 3.4.5, however, this Project demonstrated that it is still a difficult task for the TMAs to
tackle gender issues in the province. With recommendations from the Bank, the project made
efforts to address gender issues in its intervention, by including women in decision making roles
in CCBs and respond to their needs in infrastructure schemes. As a result, several CCBs had
gender disaggregated sub-committees; 70% of CCBs nominated a woman focal person; and 12%
of CCBs had a female block representative to the executive committees. The Project also carried
out training for women, though not to the extent resources were made available in the Project
design for this purpose. These include skill trainings at the 12 computer centers and 43 women
centers established in 56 participating CCBs. Furthermore, 470 events of health and hygiene
campaigns, and 30 events of Special Support for Women and Children were carried out.
Anecdotal evidence gathered during the ICR field visits shows that some women have initiated
home-based income generating activities as a result of these trainings. Female members who
participated in the stakeholder workshops expressed their interest to establish micro-enterprises
and showed willingness for acquiring skills that would enhance income of their households.
Social Development
3.5.4 The project carried out social mobilization in NWFP and formed 648 CCBs that
participated in the sub-project identification and implementation. This has served as the
foundation for social and institutional development of local communities. All sub-projects and
schemes are identified by local communities through consultative processes that resulted in the
CAPs. However, as noted above, the community development processes undertaken by the
Project were not followed in a genuinely participatory spirit.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
3.5.5 The rural communities have shown their interests to get organized at the grassroots levels
as CCBs in order to receive sub-projects. Even though CCBs have not fully benefited from the
Project’s capacity development plans, some CCBs have developed a team of activists who have
good ideas of developing communities. After having successfully completed their sub-projects,
there are some CCBs that are now searching for other similar opportunities to fulfill their
prioritized community needs identified in the process of preparing CAPs. Such initiatives give
signals of positive institutional changes in these CCBs.
3.5.6 It is not clear as to what extent the Project has contributed to develop TMAs’ skills in
carrying out participatory infrastructure development projects. The ICR’s assessment is that they
still do not have the capacity, attitudes and skills for such an approach through their own

                                               17
initiative although they would be able to form CCBs and prepare similar CAPs. Perhaps, it would
take more time and effort for TMAs to change their attitudes and institutionalise procedures
towards independently adopting a participatory approach.
(c) Other unintended outcomes
3.5.7 Improvement of transparency in preparing sub-projects by TMAs: Community sub-
project implementation provided grounds for TMA officers to be more realistic in preparation of
cost estimates, because there were neither profits nor private contractors involved in the
construction. As a result, there was improved transparency in sub-project preparation and
implementation.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
4.1.1 Based on the ICR mission’s visits to some of the CIP-I sub-projects, as well as from
interviews with TMAs, the ICR considers that the infrastructure developed under the Project will
likely continue to be maintained by communities, at least for as long as their expected life periods.
These assets meet a much valued need of the communities and their ownership, therefore, is quite
high.
4.1.2 Notwithstanding the ownership, many CCBs have still not evolved enough to fit into an
institutional framework that calls for equitable representation of all community members; male
and female, better-off and the poor, socially disadvantaged and the elite; for decision making
with consensus on a sustained basis, and for equitable sharing of benefits. The leadership in
CCBs is invariably formed by the traditional community leaders, who hold sway in local
decision-making. It can also be assessed that although many traditional communities are not yet
ready to evolve into such society, these community members are traditionally strongly bonded
and mostly coherent. The risk for communities to abandon the infrastructure as well as to stop
organizing community members is assessed as very low.
4.1.3 The focus on implementing activities for TMAs and CCBs under Component 2 has been
weak and it is unlikely that the impacts attained would sustain. Therefore, the risk of sustaining
the impacts of capacity building and decentralization initiatives is high. Risks to this component
were also rated as high at the time of appraisal. Combined with the effect of the deteriorating
security situation in the province, the overall assessment or risk to PDO is rated “High?.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
5.1.1 Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’. The
project design included all elements of GOP’s and CAS’s strategic pillars, participatory
community development and good practices from similar projects in Pakistan. However, there are
shortcomings in the design described above (see 2.3, 3.1 and 3.2). The Project Performance
Assessment Report (PPAR) for the predecessor CIP-I rated the project as “Unsatisfactory?, which
contradicts the ICR for the CIP-I that rated “Satisfactory?. This difference of ratings casts doubt
on whether a thorough review of CIP-I was carried out and whether the feasibility of working

                                                18
with the GoNWFP was assessed in emphasizing decentralization and participatory approach
during Project preparation. Nevertheless, the design was vigorous with a focus on the newer
element for the detailed selection criteria for communities and sub-projects and development of
capacity of local governments and CCBs, which proved to be a challenge in the province.
(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):
5.1.2 Overall Bank quality of supervision is rated ‘Moderately Satisfactory’. The Bank TT for
the project has been regularly fielding supervision missions until the security situation in NWFP
greatly deteriorated. The TT filed ten Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports during
the tenure of the project. These missions, including the MTR, appear proactive (based on ISRs
and Aide Memoires) in raising issues to the notice of decision makers. Critical actions to be taken
by the Project were identified, action plans agreed, and responsibilities assigned to the various
implementation tiers in order to bring the Project back on track.
5.1.3 The Project made substantial progress on outputs during the latter half of the second year.
In spite of the momentum thus generated, the MTR mission of the Bank was candid enough to
acknowledge that there still existed the need to strengthen the social development and social
mobilization aspects of the project. The QALP undertaken in 2008 assessed the quality of Bank
supervision as Satisfactory with excellent continuity and a very thorough skill mix.
5.1.4 Unfortunately, the security situation deteriorated in NWFP, and Bank’s efforts to improve
quality and address the missing but important elements of the Project became very difficult.
Detailed supervision by the Bank were constrained for much of 2008-2009, when project
activities were at a peak, site visits were needed the most, and there was a need for the Bank TT
to make its dialogue with the project management and higher provincial authorities. Nevertheless,
the TT team maintained regular progress meetings with the project team and was adapting to a
quickly deteriorating environment. To be fair to the Bank, there were many factors including the
deteriorating security situation, which were simply not within the control of the Bank.

5.2    Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance:
5.2.1 The GoNWFP performance is rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory?. GoNWFP’s
insufficient commitment to the Project, e.g. its lack of leadership in supporting the
decentralization and participatory approaches of the Project, created unnecessary uneasiness
among all stakeholders. The key position of the Director General who was assigned by the
GoNWFP lacked continuity of personnel. GoNWFP’s decision to standardize the salaries for
project posts came too late (in 2008) to resolve a long-standing issue of high turnover and limited
capacity in project staff. The GoNWFP also failed to prevent certain political interferences in the
community and sub-project selection and carried out transfers of middle management, technical
and lower level staff, all of which hampered implementation progress. It has to be noted,
however, that the GoNWFP did demonstrate its commitments to the Project by making financing
of project interventions available beyond the limit and keeping the core staff in potion more than
6 months after the formal closure of the Project.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:
5.2.2 There are two tiers of implementing agencies: The PCSU for overall project coordination
and management and TMAs for sub-project implementation. Overall performance of the two is
rated as ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’. Although the project exceeded its targets for CCB

                                                19
formation and infrastructure schemes undertaken, the implementing agencies’ commitment to the
institutional development of TMAs under Component 2 was weak. The resources provided for
capacity building of the local government institutions and CCBs, particularly in the case of skill
development of women community members, were under-utilized.
5.2.3 The Project TMA staff was over-loaded with work of other development projects and
were unable to give adequate time for this Project. They were energized to complete CCB sub-
projects towards the end of the Project period and completed infrastructure sub-projects under
difficult circumstances.

6. Lessons Learned
6.1    Implementing a community based project through a local government system that
has been recently introduced needs sustained commitment at all levels and a major
emphasis on institutional and behavioral change. As a high risk approach, sufficient resources
are required to support institutional development and high level champions are needed to
maintain commitment and progress. There is a need to review the evolving local government
system in the province and prepare approaches for rural development projects that are community
based with effective support from government in partnership with civil society organizations.
6.2    Implementing community projects in environments that are highly insecure need to
have a flexible design and use locally trusted organizations. The security situation in the
province deteriorated rapidly since the predecessor project making it difficult for the government
agency to implement and for the World Bank to provide implementation support. The design
needs to be flexible to allow changes in approach, ways of working and expected outcomes.
6.3     Recovery of the outstanding advance should be started at an early stage to avoid
problems such as the exchange losses. Bank staff should closely monitor the available balance
in the DA in both currencies i.e. PAK and or US Dollars.
6.4     A rural development project that requires field work with staff inputs from local
governments needs to provide appropriate logistical support. Local governments often face
budget and mobility issues, and if appropriate support in the form of financial support and
vehicles is not provided by the project, they need to mobilize resources from their own alternative
sources. Preparation of new budget item for local governments to procure a new vehicle can
require a long period of time and would not easily be approved. However, in order to implement
effectively a rural project that requires frequent field visits, it is important to carry out an
assessment of staff mobility and constraints of local government bodies.
6.5     Integrated community development is not the strength of GoNWFP staff members at
all levels. Some NGOs were hired to supplement this weakness. However, because of the fees
proposed by the Project, none of NGOs with good reputation applied for the role. Any new
community-based project needs to consider out-sourcing the social mobilization and community
development component to well reputed service providers and/or civil society organizations with
a credible track record in these fields, even if the cost is high.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
7.1    The Borrower’s completion report was not finalized or available. However, comments
were received on the draft ICR Report and changes made. Overall comments and issues raised

                                                20
are included as Annex 7. These include the challenges faced with introducing the M&E system as
planned during design and the PCSU’s efforts to scrutinize reports from the field (RCSU/TMAs)
and to report regularly through both the Government and to the World Bank.
7.2      The Borrower also suggests that the overall outcome rating should be satisfactory rather
than the moderately unsatisfactory rating from this ICR. This is because the project managed to
meet or exceed many of its original targets (particularly for the number of CCBs formed and
community infrastructure schemes delivered) despite a difficult security situation in many
districts of the province and threats to project staff. In addition to the deteriorating security
situation, there were the changes to the local government system towards the end of the project
that affected the new institutional procedures and systems being supported by the project. These
factors were beyond the control of the project. It is therefore commendable that the project
managed to deliver many of the planned outputs in an environment that was changing
significantly from when the project was initially designed.




                                                21
Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                           Revised
                                                    Appraisal                           Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                          Appraisal
                Components                          Estimate                              Estimate      Revised
                                                                          Estimate
                                                  (USD millions)                       (USD millions) Appraisal
                                                                        (USD millions)
LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SERVICES                                                42.75                 30.25               29.90    99
IMPROVING LOCAL LEVEL
PERFORMANCE                                             4.23                  4.23                 4.20    99
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                5.43                 5.43                 2.30    42
                   Total Baseline Cost                  52.41                 39.91                36.4    91
Physical Contingencies                                   0.21                 0.21                 0.06    28
Price Contingencies                                      0.68                 0.68                 0.06     9
                    Total Project Costs                 53.30                 40.80               36.52    90
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
            Total Financing Required



(b) Financing

                                                                           Revised
                                                    Appraisal                           Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                          Appraisal
              Source of Funds                       Estimate                              Estimate      Revised
                                                                          Estimate
                                                  (USD millions)                       (USD millions) Appraisal
                                                                        (USD millions)
Borrower                                                 7.61               7.61            3.41           45
Local Governments (Provincial, district
 and TMAs)                                               2.86                  2.86                2.48    87
  Local Communities (Citizen
 Community Boards, or CCBs)                              5.73                  5.73                4.96    87
International Development Association
 (IDA)                                                  37.10                 24.60                24.60   100
Note: Weighted average rate of PKR 73.206 = 1 USD has been used to convert actual expenditure into USD.




                                                            22
                             Annex 2. Outputs by Components

1. Component 1: Local Infrastructure and Services

1.1 Overview of Outputs

1.1.1 Number of Schemes and Total Cost: The project implemented a total of 647
sub-projects (primary and secondary) during the project period with 647 CCBs in 48
TMAs, while additional six TMAs (in total 54) received supports from the Project to
develop their institutions (i.e. mainly training). Each sub-project had more than one
scheme resulting in a total of 1,431 schemes, including: street pavements (548
schemes/38%), drainage (463 schemes/32%), water supply (221 schemes/15%), roads
(179 schemes/13%), and others (20 schemes/2%). The total cost was PKR 1,994.6
million with an average of 2.2 schemes per CCB. Around 17 % of the cost was spent on
Primary infrastructure whereas about 83 % was spent on Secondary Infrastructure. Brief
descriptions of these schemes by type and quantity are:
       Link Road: About 13% of the total schemes were of road construction. About 132 km
        long road were construction in 179 schemes. All of these schemes were black top pre-mix
        type roads. These schemes directly benefited around 24,000 households and 168,000
        persons.
       Street Pavement: These schemes were the most popular type of infrastructure provided
        under CIP-II and contributed around 38% of total schemes. About 1.5 million sq. meters
        of katcha streets were either brick paved or paved by cement concrete. This implies that a
        linear length of around 485 km was paved with an average width of 3 meters. These
        schemes provided dust free paths and relatively clean environment in 548 localities
        benefiting over 73,000 households and over o.5 million persons.
       Drainage: About 32% of the total schemes were under the category of Drainage. A total
        of 488 km long small drains were constructed in 463 schemes. Over 85% of these
        schemes were V-shaped concrete drains while the remaining drains were constructed in
        bricks. These drains provided the drainage facilities to over 62,000 households and 0.43
        million persons.
       Water Supply: More than 15% of the total schemes were implemented under the
        category of drinking water supply. A total of 221 water supply schemes were
        implemented in CIP-II. Most of these schemes (about 70%) were the provision of pumps
        on dug wells, followed by gravity schemes (20%) and the installation of tube wells with
        complete water supply network and house connections (10%). The implementation of
        these schemes provided access to improved water supply source to around 30,000
        households and over 0.2 million persons.


1.1.2 Distribution of Schemes by Type: The analysis of data on schemes developed
reveals that street pavements and drains were the two most popular schemes comprising
around 70 % of the total schemes. Water supply accounted for a further 15% of schemes
and 23% of the total cost for infrastructure. The least popular scheme was productive
infrastructure (constructed at only one site). The table below shows the details of
schemes constructed by the Project with the plan as per the PAD.



                                               23
                Table 1. Distribution of Schemes and Total Cost by Type
                                  Planned as per PAD                Actual
 No Types of Schemes
                                  PKR (M)         %       No        PKR (M)         %
  1   Road                            368.21        15       179           208        10
  2   Street Pavement                 913.70        37       548        923.8         46
  3   Drainage                        578.97        23       463        394.2         20
  4   Solid Waste                     123.98         5         -              -        -
  5   Productive Infrastructure       207.04         8         1            0.3     0.01
  6   Water Supply                    287.62        12       221        464.6         23
  7   Others                                -        -        19           3.9       0.2
      Total                         2,479.51      100      1,431      1,994.6        100

1.1.3 Actual Implementation against PAD: Primary VS Secondary: It was
envisaged in the PAD that 33% of the total investment would be spent for Primary
infrastructure (roads, water supply and drainage undertaken by contractors), whereas
around 67% would be spent for Secondary infrastructure that would be implemented by
communities. Despite the community contribution required for secondary infrastructure,
the share of secondary infrastructure resulted in more than 80%. The distribution of
scheme types also has a significant variation from the PAD (particularly fewer roads and
more water supply schemes), which indeed proves Project’s demand-driven approach.

1.2 Population Benefitted

1.2.1 It is estimated that the Project benefited around190,000 HHs or 1.3 million
persons in 647 CCBs as a result of implementing of 1,431 infrastructure schemes. Bannu
RCSU provided more than 65,000 HHs with 420 CCBs, which was the largest RCSU
among the nine RCSU (see Table 2 below).

                       Table 2. Households Beneficiaries per RCSU
                                   Beneficiary                  Beneficiary HHs
         No        RCSUs                           HHs / CCBs
                                   Households                      / Scheme
          1   Bannu                      65,960           420                 186
          2   Peshawar                   41,990           336                 139
          3   Kohat                       9,160           269                 121
          4   Mardan                     32,600           249                 107
          5   Abbottabad                  8,745           230                 171
          6   D.I.Khan                   10,360           220                  96
          7   Mansehra                    4,550           207                  99
          8   Swat                        6,410           189                  75
          9   Timergara                  10,700           181                 109
                   Total                190,475           294                 134




                                             24
1.3 Completed and Closed Schemes

1.3.1 The Project tagged all schemes as “ Completed?, “Closed?, and “Dropped?. The
definitions of these are as follows:

          Completed: Schemes completed as per their planned schemes and where the
          overall expenditures are equal to or more than 85% of total PC-I Cost;

          Closed: Schemes could not be completed due to any reason. CIP-II put all those
          schemes in this category where expenditures are less than 85% of PC-I cost.

          Dropped: There is only one sub project witch shows status as dropped. This is the
          project where no work could be commenced and no disbursement was made due
          to some court case.

1.3.2 The constructions of a total of 1,431 schemes were initiated by 647 CCBs.
However, works on various schemes were closed prematurely in 96 CCBs. Due to
inconsistency in data maintained by both M&E and Finance Sections, it is estimated that
around 210 schemes (see the table below) out of the total were closed by the closing date
of 31st December 2009 (15% of the total schemes).13 The analysis also reveals that while
Peshawar and Bannu RCSUs have very low rates of closed scheme rates, SWAT,
Abbottabad and Mansehra RCSUs recorded higher rates. A possible main reason for
incomplete closing of project scheme was difference of opinion or dispute among CCB
members on the selected schemes as well as the worsening security situation especially in
Swat. Around 11% of the total Project budget (an estimated average across the all
RCSUs) were spent on these closed schemes.

                  Table 3. Cost incurred on Closed Schemes in various RCSUs
                                                      Amount      Amount                      Close cost
                    No of         Estimated cost       spent       spent       Cost of all
                                                                                               as % of
       RCSU        Closed           (PKR M)                                    Schemes
                                                     (PKR M)        (%)                       Total cost
                  Schemes*
                                         1               2         3=2/1             4          5=2/4
       Bannu          15               33.3            24.4         73%           621.8         3.9%
       Mardan         46                72             45.9         64%           478.7         9.6%
       Kohat           7                9.5             7.6         80%           114.9         6.6%
      D.I.Khan        24                29             22.6         78%            101          22.4%
      Peshawar         9               14.4              9          62%           351.9         2.6%
     Abbottabad       40               49.9             27          54%           82.3          32.8%
      Mansehra        13               23.2            16.8         73%             56          30.0%
     Timergara        18               30.5            18.6         61%           92.1          20.2%
        Swat          40               75.9            49.4         65%           95.8          51.5%
       Total         212              337.7            221.2        66%         1,994.60        11.10%

13
     There is inconsistency in scheme identification in the data provided by the Project’s M&E Section and
     Finance Section. The M&E data is based on CCB basis while Finance has the breakup of expenditure
     incurred on various schemes within a CCB. As the names of CCBs and the spellings in both the data
     sets differ from each other for some, it is not possible to segregate the expenditure on scheme basis.
     However, the same is done at CCB level.


                                                     25
 */ Due to inconsistency of data, there are two schemes that are not clear on their status.

1.4 Regional Distribution of Sub-projects and Schemes

1.4.1 Regional Distribution: The Project was implemented in 9 regions of NFWP. The
data analysis reveals that more than 50% of the Project budget was spent for only two
regions, Bannu and Mardan. Bannu region implemented 355 schemes in 7 TMAs with a
total of PKR 622 million, while Mardan region constructed 306 schemes with PKR 352
million (see Table below). The reasons for such higher shares of these two regions
include political influence at the province level as well as their readiness both in
administrative/technical capacity to implement such higher volumes of work and ability
of financial contributions.

                   Table 4. Percentage of Schemes and Investments by RCSU
                                                   Cost of
                                  Number of                     % of Total     % of Total
          No.         RCSUs                       Schemes
                                   Schemes                      Schemes          Cost
                                                  (PKR M)
           1       Bannu                  355          621.8              25            31
           2       Mardan                 306          478.7              21            24
           3       Peshawar               303          351.9              21            18
           4       D.I.Khan               108            101               8             5
           5       Timergara              100           92.1               7             5
           6       Swat                    86           95.8               6             5
           7       Kohat                   76          114.9               5             6
           8       Abbottabad              51           82.3               4             4
           9       Mansehra                46           56.0               3             3
                       Total            1,431        1,994.6             100           100


1.5 Average Investment Cost per CCB and Beneficiary

1.5.1 The average cost per sub-project (CCB) is approximately PKR 3.1 million which
is about 27% less than the envisaged cost of PKR 4.23 million in the PAD. The average
cost per CCB varies across the regions; Bannu region has the highest average cost of
PKR 4.08 million per CCB, followed by Mardan region with 3.7 million per CCB. Table
4 below shows the average cost of infrastructure projects per CCB in different RCSUs.
As shown in the table below, the sizes of schemes were also larger than the others.

                          Table 5. Average Investment Cost per CCB
                                                          Cost of
                                                                          Average Cost
            No.        RCSUs             CCBs            Schemes
                                                                            per CCB
                                                         (PKR M)
               1    Bannu                       157             621.8                  4
               2    Mardan                      131             478.7                3.7
               3    Kohat                        34             114.9                3.4
               4    Swat                         34               95.8               2.8
               5    Peshawar                    125             351.9                2.8



                                                 26
             6   Mansehra                     22                 56.0                 2.5
             7   Abbottabad                   38                 82.3                 2.2
             8   D.I.Khan                     47                  101                 2.1
             9   Timergara                    59                 92.1                 1.6
                     Total                   647              1,994.6                 3.1


1.5.2 The average of 647 sub-project cost per beneficiary is estimated around PKR
1,500. The schemes of RCSU Peshawar were most cost effective due to high population
density and readily availability of construction materiel in and around Peshawar RCSU.
On the other hand, the highest sub-project cost was in Swat, being very remote areas with
low population density. Its hilly and difficult terrain also resulted in requiring higher cost
of construction.

                      Table 6. Average Sub-project Cost per Beneficiary
                                                                                      Cost Per
                            Beneficiary                        Total Cost
   No       RCSUs                              CCBs                                  Beneficiary
                             Persons                           (PKR M)
                                                                                   (PKR / Person)
    1    Swat                     44,870               34              95.8                  2,134
    2    Mardan                  228,200              131             478.7                  2,098
    3    Kohat                    64,120               34             114.9                  1,793
    4    Mansehra                 31,850               22              56.0                  1,759
    5    D.I.Khan                 72,520               47               101                  1,393
    6    Bannu                   461,720              157             621.8                  1,347
    7    Abbottabad               61,215               38              82.3                  1,344
    8    Timergara                74,900                5              92.1                  1,230
    9    Peshawar                293,930              125             351.9                  1,197
             Total             1,333,325              647           1,994.6                  1,496


1.6 Stakeholder Share Contribution

1.6.1 It was mandatory for CCBs and TMAs to contribute 20% and 10% of the total
costs of schemes respectively. The data provided by the Project demonstrate that CCBs
and TMAs as well as other stakeholders complied with the rule (Table 6).

           Table 7. Stakeholder Shares in Primary and Secondary Infrastructure
                          Primary Infrastructure         Secondary Infrastructure
  No       RCSU               Government                      CCB     TMA                     Grand
                        IDA      Share       Total    IDA    Share    Share     Total         Total
   1     Abbottabad      3.9           1.7     5.6     53.7      15.3        7.7       76.7      82.3
   2     Bannu          87.2          37.4   124.6    348.0      99.4       49.7      497.2     621.8
   3     D.I.Khan       11.5           4.9    16.4     59.3      16.9        8.5       84.7     101.0
   4     Kohat           8.4           3.6    11.9     72.1      20.6       10.3      103.0     114.9
   5     Mansehra                              0.0     39.2      11.2        5.6       56.0      56.0
   6     Mardan         56.0          24.0    80.1    279.1      79.7       39.9      398.7     478.7



                                               27
   7     Peshawar     47.7         20.4    68.2    198.6    56.8    28.4    283.8    351.9
   8     Swat         11.7          6.3    17.9     54.5    15.6     7.8     77.8     95.8
   9     Timergara     5.7          2.5     8.2     58.7    16.8     8.4     83.9     92.1
           PKR       232.1        100.7   332.8   1163.2   332.3   166.2   1661.7   1994.6
 TOAL                  70            30    100       70      20      10      100
             %
                                           16.7                              83.3      100

1.6.2 The findings of the TPV report, based on member households of 27 sampled
CCBs, indicate that about 58% households contributed in cash, 26% households
contributed in-kind, while 16% households gave no response. A similar survey of 24
sampled CCBs in 5 RSCUs show that the TMAs staff, presumably SOs, helped the CCBs
in the collection of cash contributions from the member households. During the focus
group discussions at the stakeholders workshops, the ICR mission noted that wherever a
community was unable to contribute its entire share in cash, different mechanisms were
adopted to make up for the shortfalls. Some member households of the community,
usually the poorest ones, were permitted to contribute mainly through labor inputs,
transportation of construction materials, provision of meals, and supply of water on-site
for construction purposes.

1.7 Operation and Maintenance (O&M)

1.7.1 The feedback obtained during the beneficiary workshops indicates that the CCBs
are, by and large, maintaining their infrastructure schemes/sub-projects through regular
and/or periodic O&M activities. The ICR mission’s field visit also revealed that in
general communities are aware of the importance of O&M maintenance and the mission
also found that infrastructure constructed under CIP-I have also been well maintained. In
term of CCB’s possession of O&M accounts, the Project’s data indicates that 60% of the
647 CCBs have their accounts as of Project closing date. However, it was unable for the
ICR to verify to what extent such accounts are still functioning.

2. Component 2: Improving Local Level Performance

2.1 Overview

2.1.1 This component aimed at improving the local level performance through (a)
institutional strengthening of local government institutions at the Tehsil level and
capacity building of local residents (e.g. CCBs and communities) through (b) community
development (CD) activities. The performance of this component is Unsatisfactory. The
two dimension approach of this component was considered essential to the
decentralization effort in order to transfer the responsibility for operating community
infrastructure projects at the Tehsil level and the communities through specific capacity
development programs.




                                           28
2.2 Institutional strengthening of local government institutions

2.2.1 There is a general lack of available data from the Project that would show the
numbers of specific strengthening measures taken for the local government institutions.
One available data set on the use of Project fund shows (see the table below) that the
Project mainly provided hardware support rather than skills or capacity building of TMA
staff. This finding is also supported by the TPV report.


               Table 8. Institutional Strengthening Support Provided to TMAs
                        Institutional Support
                                                              No of     Allocation Expenditure         Utilization
    No                  (Types of Trainings/
                                                            Training     (PKR M)         (PKR M)           (%)
             Logistics or technical assistance support)
    1     CCB Strengthening (Demand Based)                      1          0.36              -               0
    2     Capacity Building of TMAs & UCs*/                    11          3.30            0.18              5
    3     Capacity Building of CIP Staff                        5          4.00              -               0
          Providing logistic support to 61 TMAs,
    4     (Computer, printer, stabilizer & survey               -          7.88            26.52           337
          equipment.
          Exposure Visit (National/International) for
    5     CIP, TMAs, P&DD, Finance Department. &                -            -             1.44              -
          LGE&RDD
    6     Consultants Services PCSU                             -          31.08           10.15            33
                             Total                              -          46.62           38.29            82
*/ Capacity building training includes prioritization of needs & project identification, project preparation,
CAP, project implementation, record keeping, M&E, resource generation, rules and bye-laws,
environmental screening and monitoring, WB procurement guidelines, O&M, result framework, CIP-II site
completion policy, etc.

2.2.2 The Project carried out a training needs assessment and a plan for capacity
building of TMA staff was prepared. As shown in the table above, however, only 5 % of
the funds were utilized in the capacity building of TMAs staff up to June 2008 (item 2).
Consequently no fund was allocated to capacity building of the TMA staff in the financial
years of 2008 and 2009.

2.2.3 Exposure Visits: The Project organized exposure visits. Several key Project staff
visited the Orangi Pilot Project in Karachi and MRDP in the Malakand Division in the
NWFP. Unlike other capacity building activities, the use of Project funds in exposure
visits was high spending more than planned amount.

2.3 Community Development Sub-component

2.3.1 Project Outputs on Community Development: The Project activities as a whole
including preparatory work of Component 1, the Project produced the following outputs
as shown the table below.




                                                    29
                              Table 9. Project Outputs on CD
   No                       Capacity Building Events, Features, Items                     Outputs
   1    Sites where Social /technical Feasibility study conducted                          645
   2    CCBs where Block Reps (BR)/sub-committees formed                                   641
   3    CCBs where CAPs are counter signed by the TMOs, CCB executive and SOs              643
   4    CAPs that counter signed by the Women Sub-Committees                               538
   5    TMAs that float advertisement in national and local news papers                     52
        TMAs where TMOs has been officially notified as focal person for community
    6                                                                                         41
        development activities
   7    CAPs where social safeguard checklist attached                                      621
   8    PC-I where mitigation measurement checklist attached                                600
   9    CCB where MOUs were signed with TMAs                                                586
   10   CCB where land required for infrastructure was mutated at CCB Name                  106
        Quarterly monitoring/ progress report on Environment/Social safeguard
   11                                                                                         88
        submitted
        CCBs where female BR are nominated and work as executive member of the
   12                                                                                         78
        CCB
   13   CCBs where women actively participate in community development activities           504
   14   CCBs where Gender Focal Person nominated                                            420
        Monthly coordination meetings held with regard to progress on community
   15                                                                                         52
        development and gender activities at TMAs level with record

2.3.2 Capacity building of the CCBs: The CCBs were provided with opportunities to
enhance their capacities through technical skills such as masonry and other skilled labors,
basic engineering techniques, record keeping/book keeping, financials management and
O&M of schemes. As similar to the use of fund for capacity building of TMA staff, the
Project used only 30% (Table 9) for CCB capacity building activities.

         Table 10. Use of funds allocated for training and activities (PKR Million)
                                                        PC-1                          Percent
                   Name of Training                                 Utilization*
                                                      Allocation                      Utilized
 Community Mobilization for CAP Activities              19.69          13.33            68
 Leadership and Communication Skills                    1.06           0.21             20
 Book Keeping                                           1.36           0.22             16
 Engineering and O&M                                     0.35           0.04            13
 Educational Cross Visits                                8.8           3.18             36
 Cleanliness, Sanitation, Construction of Latrines      1.88           0.22             11
 Tree Plantation and Nursery Raising                     0.94           0.00             0
 Medical Camps                                          11.02          1.30             12
 Establishment of Non-formal Schools                    12.18          0.33              3
 Establishment of Women Skill Development Centers       6.15           0.81             13
 Child Health Care Training                              1.11           0.02             2
 Micro-Credit Linkages Development                       0.20           0.00             0
 Household Technology Training                           2.01           0.00             0
                          Total                         66.75          19.66           29.5
Note. As of June 2008



                                            30
2.3.3 In terms of number of events, the project organized around 2,560 events of
various trainings and activities including CAP preparation. According to the TPV report,
the planned target was 5,990 events, and therefore, the Project achieved 43% of the
target.

          Table 11. No of capacity building events for communities and funds utilized
                                                                    Number of        Amount
          No          Category of capacity building/raining
                                                                     events         (PKR M)
           1    Trainings (different kinds for CCBs)                  1,451           3.7
           2    Campaign (Health & Hygiene)                            470             1.5
           3    CAP Activities (for CCBs)                              608            13.3
                Special Support for Women and Children
           4                                                            30             1.1
                (SSW&C)
                                  Total                                2,559          19.6


2.3.4 Inclusion of women: The social mobilization aspect of women was not started on
equal footing as that for male groups. It started only after female SOs were recruited. A
positive output of the social mobilization process is that almost all CCBs formed Women
Sub-Committees (WSC)14. However, even with female SOs, the Project activities on
gender focus remained rather weak, limited to less direct interaction with women in
communities, which resulted in low response from the female CCB members. The
women were generally passive recipients rather than assuming the role of active partners
in development. In general, women’s involvement in the formulation of CAPs was low;
the ICR mission found that some women groups had only partial information about the
background survey for CAPs and some women did not know about their CCBs.

2.4 Special support to women and children (SSWC)

2.4.1 Training programs or support services for women and youth were envisaged in
the following seven areas:

(i)        Campaigns, orientation and training programs on health and hygiene;
(ii)       Leadership trainings to build the decision making capacity of women at the local
           level;
(iii)      Establishment of Skill Development Centers (SDCs) and enhancement of existing
           skills through trainings;
(iv)       Entrepreneurial trainings to enable them to maintain records, financial system and
           marketing;
(v)        Linkages with micro credit institutions;
(vi)       Support in improving household technology; and
(vii)      Support for provision of non-formal literacy and life skills programs and
           vocational trainings.

14
     The TPV report, based on a sample of 23 CCBs, indicated that Women Sub-Committees existed in 83%
      cases.


                                                   31
2.4.2 Actual outputs in these seven areas are very limited. Against the provision of PKR
18 million for SSWC, no expenditure was made in the initial four years, up to June 2007.
During the fifth year (2007-2008), only PKR 1.15 million was spent against an allocation
of PKR 11.9 million, which is less than 10% of the allocation. The utilization of total
budget for SSWC was barley 6% over the entire implementation period.

2.4.3 Some of the SWCC activities undertaken include awareness campaigns,
orientations on cleanliness, nursery raising, child health care trainings and organizing
medical camps. As shown in the Table 10, the expenditures on these training were merely
around 10% of the planned budget, in some cases with 0-2%. Table 10 also indicates that
only 3% of budget funds were used for establishing non-formal schools, whereas 13%
were used for establishing SDCs. The Table 12 below indicates that only around 8% of
the total participating CCBs (56 out of 648) have access to SDC facilities. The TPV
report found that three SDCs are functioning and one was not functioning out of four
SDCs established out of 23 sampled CCBs’ ‘women committees’.

            Table 12. Skill Development Centers (SDC) and their usage by CCBs
                                                                            No. of
                                   Computer   Women       Non Formal
       No         RCSU                                                   participating
                                    Centers   Centers       School
                                                                            CCBs
        1    Abbottabad               1            9           -              10
        2    Bannu                    2            1           -               2
        3    D.I.Khan                  -            2          2               2
        4    Kohat                    1            4           -               5
        5    Mansehra                  -           7           -               7
        6    Mardan                   4            8           -              11
        7    Peshawar                  -           6           -               6
        8    Swat                      -           2           1               2
        9    Timergara                4            4           -              11
               Total                  12           43          3              56
      Note: As of November 2008.

3. Component 3: Implementation Support, Monitoring and Evaluation

3.1 The Project HQs

3.1.1 The Project was headed by a Director General based at Peshawar (see Appendix 1
for the Project Organizational Diagram).Each Department was supported by Project staff,
who were recruited at contract basis for the project period. Due to low salaries applied to
these staff, the Project faced a high turn over of Project staff, which led slow progresses
of project activities. This situation resolved in 2008 with the revision of salaries, but the
loss of key staff severely affected project implementation, especially during the onset of
the Project.

3.1.2 The consultancy services were hired for various disciplines. In total, the Project
recruited a period of 231 man months of consultancy services. Four consultants worked




                                              32
for the period ranging from 39 to 43 months, which was almost the entire project life
period. Various consultancy disciplines as listed in Appendix 2.

3.2 Regional Coordination Support Units

3.2.1 There were 9 RCSUs responsible for coordinating project activities through
TMAs (See Appendix 1). Each RCSU was staffed with Regional Coordination and
Support Teams (RCSTs) headed by a RCSU Director supported by one Assistant
Director, 2 Social Organizers (one male & one female) and one Divisional Accountant, 4
Junior Gender Specialists.

3.2.2 In all, 25 SOs were hired for the RCSUs since project initiation, as shown in
Appendix 3. Thirteen of the SOs were females. Out of a total of 715 person months of
social organizers, 53% (375 person months) was of the Female Social Organizers. Five of
the SOs worked in the capacity of Consultants as well as Social Organizers (see graph).
There are a few discrepancies in the financial records whereby a person has been paid as
an SO and at another time as a consultant, and in at least one instance there is some
overlap in payments to the same person.

3.3 TMA

3.3.1 Tehsil Municipal Officers (Infrastructure) at each TMA were responsible for
implementing the Project schemes. All participating TMAs were required to employ one
male and one female SO each. The Project provided financial support to TMAs to recruit
these SOs for the first 3 years. Subsequently it was to be borne by the TMAs. As of
December 2008, 28 TMAs had their SOs, while 17 out of the 28 TMAs had SOs under a
contract with local NGOs, and 9 TMAs had no SO. Across these TMAs with SOs, in
general however, these SOs were not posted at least until 2007, which caused delay and
negatively affected implementation of project activities. The TPV report pointed that
there were political pressures that created an environment where SOs and/or NGOs could
not be hired.

3.4 Monitoring and Evaluation

3.4.1 The M&E Section was headed by a Deputy Director. The M&E framework
prepared in the Project design laid out a number of monitoring indicators to assess the
Project progresses. However, there is very little evidence that the Section has followed
the framework; this ICR had to use data from the financial section of the Project to assess
the Project achievement due to a lot of inconsistency of data prepared by the M&E
section. The main outputs of the section were various periodic reports to the GoNWFP
and the Bank and Study Reports (see below).

3.5 Studies

3.1 As a part of project performance review (Process Monitoring), the Project conducted
the following studies: (i) Case Study; (ii) Sustainability Study; (iii) Environmental Audit



                                            33
of CIP-II Projects; and (iv) Third Party Validation. The findings and recommendations of
these studies appeared to be very useful to improve project performance, but there is little
evidence that the Project put these recommendations into practice. Short summaries of
these studies are included in Appendix 4.




                                             34
Appendix 1. Organizational Structure of the Project




                                        35
Appendix 2. Consultants hired by CIP – II

                                                                                   Duration
 No           Name                           Title                 Period
                                                                                   (months)
  1   Mr. Shafique            Senior Com. Dev. & Gender     7/07-5/08                11
      Muhammad Khan           Specialist
  2   Ms. Shazia Malik        Com. Learning & Research      12/05-4/06,6/06-5/09     42
                              Specialist
  3   Ms. Asmat Ara           Junior Gender Specialist      12/5-8/06                 9

  4   Ms. Asia Tabassum       Junior Gender Specialist      12/05, 4/06,6/06-         7
                                                            7/06, 9/06-11/06
  5   Ms. Mahnaz Iftikhar     Junior Gender Specialist      12/05, 7/06, 8/08         3
  6   Mr. Muhsin ul Mulk      M&E Specialist                1/06-3/06                 3
  7   Mr. Irma Malik          H.I.D Specialist              1/06-7/06                7
  8   Mr. Naeem Ullah Khan    Procurement & Planning        12/05-6/09               43
                              Specialist
 9    Mr. Aurangzeb Khan      M&E Specialist                6/07-5/08, 7/08-6/09     24
 10   Mr. Javed Khan          -                             6/09                     1
 11   Mr. Miftahud Din        Senior Community and Gender   12/05, 3/06, 5/06,       39
                              Specialist                    7/06-6/09
 12   Mr. Fazle Rabi          Environmental & Safeguard     12/05-2/06, 7/06-        39
                              Specialist                    6/07, 8/07-6/09




                                        36
Appendix 3. Social Organizers hired by CIP - II at RCSU level

                                                                                         Duration
 No              Name                    RCSU                   Months worked
                                                                                         (months)
  1   Mr. Shafiq Mohammad                                 12/5, 6/6-10/6, 12/6-6/07        13
      Khan
  2   Ms. Shazia Malik                                    5/06                              1
  3   Ms. Asmat Ara                                       9/06-6/09                        34
  4   Ms. Asia Tabassum                                   8/06, 12/6-6/09                  32
  5   Mr. Muhammad Tariq                                  12/5-2/6, 7/6-6/09               39
  6   Ms. Shafqat Saeed                                   12/5, 2/06 to 6/09               42
  7   Mr. Fazle-Muqeem                                    12/05-7/07, 9/07-1/08            25
  8   Mr. Sirajul Islam                                   12/05-5/06, 7/06-6/09            42
  9   Mr. Ghulam Sarwar Kundi                             12/5-1/06, 3/6-4/06, 9/6-        35
                                                          12/06, 2/7-6/07, 8/7-10/07,
                                                          12/7-6/09
 10   Ms. Hashmat Sultana                                 12/05, 2/06-3/06, 7/06-          38
                                                          5/08, 7/08-6/09
 11   Mr. Hayat Ullah                                     12/05-5/08, 7/08-6/09            42
 12   Mr.Mohammad Ajmal Shah                              12/05-6/09                       43
 13   Ms. Hasrat Jabeen                                   12/05-6/09                       43
 14   Ms. Zeba Salim                                      12/05-2/06, 7/06-10/07,          38
                                                          12/07-6/09
 15   Ms Bintul Hasan                                     12/05-10/06, 12/06-6/09          42
 16   Ms Shafqat Majeed                                   1/06                             1
 17   Ms Hashmat Sultana                                  12/05, 2/06 to 3/06, 7/06 to     39
                                                          5/08, 7/08 to 6/09
 18   Ms. Rizwana Naureen                                 12/05-11/07, 2/08-5/08           28
 19   Ms. Mahrukh Rauf                                    12/05, 7/06-6/09                 37
 20   Mr. Zafar Hassan                                    12/05, 7/06-10/07, 12/07-        35
                                                          8/08, 10/08-6/06
 21   Mr. Fakhr-e-Alam                                    6/06-11/8, 1/9-5/09              22
 22   Ms. Sumbal Yousaf                                   6/7-2/08                          9
 23   Ms. Humaira Mushtaq                                 6/07-9/08, 11/08                 17
 24   Ms. Memoona Kausar                                  7/07-4/08, 6/08                  11
                             Total period for Male SOs                                     333
                            Total period for Female SOs                                    375
                                  Total for all SOs                                        708




                                         37
Appendix 4. Short Summaries of Studies

3.1     Case Study Report No. 4, TMA Timergara by Mr Miftahuddin (Human and
Institutional Development Specialist of CIP-II), September, 2007

This study was conducted in light of MTR observations. Detailed interviews were
conducted with RCSU Timergara, staff and representatives of 7 TMAs and 4 CCBs
(Gadder, Khairabad, Baroon, Rabbat). The salient observations of the Study include the
followings:

      CAP documentations have been completed in majority of the CCBs, without
       following proper CAP formulation guidelines.

      Vehicles provided to project activities by TMAs were in general in bad conditions
       and not suitable for field visits and thus affecting the performance.

      TMAs level social organizers often remained in their offices and rare to visit their
       respective CCBs. It was also often that they did not have any specific agenda
       when they visited their respective CCBs.

      The operation and maintenance committees are yet to be formed and made
       functional.

      Out of the 7 TMAs visited, none of the CD activities (CAP formulation,
       management trainings, medical camps, cross visits, awareness campaigns, school
       skill centers) were carried out. Only CD activities that had been implemented
       were a couple of management trainings in two TMAs.

      Local level commitment for ownership, cost sharing was not found in the visited
       CCB’s executive body as well in the general public.

      The Deputy Director and TMO were not even aware of the MTR
       recommendations.


3.2    Sustainability Study, Community Infrastructure Project, North West
Frontier Province, by Mahjabeen Qazi, 2007

The methodology adopted involved review of documents, meetings with stakeholders and
field research. The findings included:

      The schemes were identified through consultative process and CCBs were
       willingly contributing 20% of the total scheme costs in addition to 3% for O&M
       indicating the sense of responsibility and ownership among CCB members.
       However, the completion of schemes within estimated time period depended upon
       efficient bureaucratic procedures and release of funds from respective TMAs.



                                            38
      Most CCBs had satisfactory level of awareness and clarity on CIP approach.
       However, the level of clarity and awareness was related to level of interaction
       between CCBs and their respective SOs, their skills and CCBs own exposure to
       developmental interventions.

      There were high level of interests and potentials among women groups. However,
       they need guidance and support like men’s groups in CAP development, WDC
       formation, social mobilization, scheme identification and scope for their
       involvement in CCB activities. The project should articulate their approach to
       gender mainstreaming to ensure women’s active involvement in project activities
       and decision making processes considering the regional specific social and
       cultural practices.

      The project needs to define their approach to community development process by
       linking project objectives with operational guidelines with increased focus on
       social mobilization and institutional capacity building of CCBs. PCSU, in the lead
       role, should develop this approach in consultation with key stakeholders.

      The CIP approach has oriented TMAs in social mobilization and participatory
       approaches. This approach has further helped in establishing linkages between
       CCBs and TMAs. However, TMAs have to give more emphasis on building their
       capacities in participatory approaches to be able to sustain the newly established
       linkages. At the moment there are some gaps due to the non existence of SOs
       which would require hiring resource persons in some TMAs.

      The project approach has enhanced linkages, communication and sense of
       cooperation among community members. In some cases, better off community
       members have contributed more than their due share to reduce burden on widows,
       orphans and poor members.

      There is lack of responsibility at the supervisory level in TMA which has further
       affected the quality of social organization with CCBs. The role of RCSU has
       partially been shifted from monitoring and facilitation to implementation.

      SOs should be facilitated in transportation for ensuring quality of social
       mobilization process.

3.3 Environmental Audit of Selected CIP-II Sub-projects, by Prof. Dr. Daulat Khan,
and Prof. Dr. Taj Ali Khan, August 2009

The Study conducted on the directions of GoNWFP, was completed in August 2009 after
discussion/ site visits in 26 CCBs falling in 6 TMAs of 5 RCSUs. The Study concluded
that majority of the sub-projects were in accordance with the technical guidelines and
instructions. However, the observations made at some places in the Study are as follows:




                                            39
          Environmental Awareness component was not given due importance because of
           no provision of funds in the PC-1 and Environmental Management Framework
           (EMF).

          Most of the sanitation schemes were found full of debris, sediment, solid waste,
           garbage and rubbish. The drain banks were found full of vegetative covers with
           no cleaning and maintenance arrangement.

          The outfalls of all drains were disposed off either to irrigation channels,
           agricultural fields or natural drains without any prior treatment.

          Male SOs were recruited in only 3 RCSUs (out of 5 visited) but no female SO
           was recruited in any of the RCSU15. Resultantly the women community was not
           trained even in the basic hygienic, sanitation and health education.

          The water quality tests for drinking water from the certified laboratories were not
           got done as required vide EMF.


3.4  Draft Final Third Party Validation (TPV) Report CIP-II, Development
Management Consultants, Peshawar, July 2009

Third Party Validation report was prepared based on the intensive field visits, discussions
and information collected from CIP office, the report highlighted that the hiring of core
staff at the PCSU level was delayed for 1-4 years, 22% to 44% decrease was made to the
PC-1 approved salaries of the consultants, an amount of Rs 19 million of human resource
budget was converted to purchasing extra equipment, 43% community trainings were
held utilizing 29.5% of the allocated budget, only 21% of the available funds were
utilized on capacity building of TMAs and CIP-II staff; the annual planning documents
also indicate that no provision for capacity building activities has been made in the
annual work plan 2007-08 and 2008-09. The other observations made in the report are as
follows:

          The components of household technologies and productive infrastructure were
           never conveyed to the communities, mainly due to lack of understanding about
           the concept of these components by the project staff.
          More than 30 additional sites were added for implementation in the last quarter
           before closing date of the project.
          Operation and maintenance was not institutionalized in the communities.
          There was sufficient room for improvement in the engineering design, which in
           some cases could be termed as inefficient, un-economical and irrelevant.
          A handsome amount was provided for human and institutional development.
           However, little amount was utilized to achieve this objective except for the
           salaries of concerned staff and purchase of equipment.


15
     According to the information provided, there were 13 FSOs


                                                     40
   There appeared to be unwarranted political interference, resulting in
    mismanagement as well as deviation from the standard operating procedures,
    leading to the impression that participatory infrastructure development may not
    produce the desired long-term impact.
   Out of a total allocation of Rs 13.83 million provided for cleanliness campaign
    and health Hygiene and Sanitation education, the expenditure was only Rs 1.518
    million till June 2008.
   In the absence of computerized MIS all the transactions were done manually and
    were perhaps the major reason for delays in adjustments and thus delay in project
    implementation.
   The audit observations were still outstanding and only minimal efforts were made
    for follow-up and settlement of these observations.
   The PRB approved the AWPs of the project but it was hardly transformed into
    implementation plan and the entire tiers i.e. RCSU TMAs/CCB are implementing
    the activities without defined targets.
   The emphasis on: i) integrated approach by the World Bank, and ii) more physical
    infrastructure to cater the demands of communities and influential groups, have
    impacted the effectiveness of the project.




                                       41
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 Background

3.1.1 CIP-II was implemented since 2004 and has completed a total of 1,431 schemes
by the end of 2009 with an expenditure of PKR 2,483 million.

3.2 Methodology

3.2.1 The ICR mainly used data from the PCSU financial management section. The
financial data were sorted by scheme type for various aspects mainly: (i) number of
schemes; (ii) cost; and (iii) number of beneficiaries. The ICR mission made field visits
only to Haripur district where the security situation was relatively safe. In order to
supplement the lack of field visits, but to derive meaningful inferences in the light of
efficiency parameters, the ICR interviewed CCB representatives who attended at the two
workshops held in Islamabad and Peshawar (see Annex 6 for more details of the
workshops) over a total of 16 schemes. The ICR also used data and information used in
the ICRs for the CIP-I, PPAF, and AJK-CIP to compare potential benefits derived from
construction of community-based infrastructure. It is important to note that the economic
and financial analysis made for this ICR is indicative due to limited availability of M&E
data and qualitative information form beneficiaries.

3.3 Assumptions and Returns on Investment for selected CIPs

3.3.1 Economic and financial analyses have been made for all infrastructure schemes to
have an idea of returns on investment (ROI) using financial and economic prices. The
assumptions made are:

          The life span is taken as 10 years for all schemes;
          The maintenance cost is taken as 10% of the capital cost except for water
           supply schemes taken as 15% - higher in view of its operational cost;
          No salvage value is taken for any of the schemes;
          For economic analysis, the financial cost is converted to economic cost using
           Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 and financial benefits are multiplied
           with SCF of 0.85; and
          The costs are escalated at 12% to bring these to 2010 price level.


3.4 Scheme Cost Profile

3.4.1 Out of all the schemes implemented, 90% are in the cost range of a maximum of 3
million. Only 1% of schemes fall in the range of 6 to 10 million.




                                           42
                     Table 3-1. Scheme Profile on the basis of Cost
                           Cost                      Distribution
                                          No
                      (PKR Million)                      (%)
                           < 1.0          645                  45.1%
                        1.0 to 1.9        500                  34.9%
                        2.0 to 2.9        150                  10.5%
                        3.0 to 3.9           78                 5.5%
                        4.0 to 4.9           35                 2.4%
                        5.0 to 5.9            9                 0.6%
                        6.0 to 6.9            5                 0.3%
                        7.0 to 7.9            5                 0.3%
                        8.0 to 8.9            1                 0.1%
                        9.0 to 10.0           3                 0.2%
                           Total         1,431               100.0%


3.5 Types of Benefits

3.5.1 Although the majority of the schemes are small and low cost investments, these
have very positive direct and indirect impacts on communities. It was felt that as the
needs of communities for these infrastructures are high, and therefore, the chances of
their sustainability are high as well. In addition, CCB members have contributed to the
investments in form of cash or labor, O&M will be shared well among community
members. The expected benefits accruing to the beneficiaries are given below, also
summarized in tabular form:

         (a)   Water Supply: availabilities of drinking water at or near the door steps
               leading to time savings and its productive use in other income generating
               activities, comparatively better quality of water with limited chances of
               damage and contamination, and thus savings in medical expenses on
               account of illness;

         (b)   Link Roads: easy access to main road, opening up areas for other
               economic activities, savings in commuter time, reduction in transport fare,
               reduced haulage rates for farm produce and fertilizers, productive use of
               saved time;

         (c)   Drains: lesser seepage of water reducing the damage to boundary walls
               and thus, savings in wall construction cost, reduced medical expenses due
               to lesser stagnant water in streets, which were often sources of water-born
               diseases; and




                                            43
           (d)   Street Pavement: smooth flow leading to fuel/ time saving, better hygienic
                 conditions resulting in decreased medical expenses, lesser fare for special
                 vehicles brought in the localities.

       Table 3-2. Parameters to estimate benefits from different infrastructure schemes
Schemes        Parameter Descriptions
Water supply Time saving/ HH/ day varying from 0.75 to 1.75
               Annual savings of medical expenses /HH varying from Rs 150 to Rs 200 per
               month
               Savings due to the benefits from Kitchen gardening
Road           Savings in transportation of farm produce and fertilizers (Rs 12,500 to Rs
               72,188 per annum, depending on distance and road condition before project
               implementation)
               Savings in round trip Passenger fare to nearby town (Rs 3 to Rs 5 per trip)
               Savings in Commuter time per trip/HH
               Savings in Vehicle Operating cost ranging from Rs 3 to Rs 9.5 per trip.
Drains         Savings in construction cost of boundary walls affected by water seepage – Rs
               400 to Rs 800 per house
               Savings in medical cost by reduced incidence of diseases due to stagnant water
               in streets – Rs 720 to Rs 1,242 per HH per annum
Street         Decrease in persons falling ill – 0.20 to 1.10 persons per month per HH
pavement       Annual medical cost savings/HH – Rs 696 to Rs 3,726 per annum

  The benefits derived based on the above parameters are detailed in Appendix Tables 1 to
  4 for different type of infrastructures. These were used for the Benefit Cost analysis.


  3.6 Benefit Cost Analysis

  3.6.1 The results of analyses on cost effectiveness of various schemes show that EIRR
  is in the range of 15.8% to 19.2%. The highest return is for the water supply scheme
  followed by roads. The contribution of each component is calculated to derive overall
  rate of return by deriving the proportion in terms of cost incurred. The combined cost of
  16 selected schemes is PKR 30 million. To estimate the project NPV, the figures are
  therefore, calculated for the entire amount invested based on the cost of selected schemes.
  The aggregated EIRR is 17.2% with highest contribution of 5.866% by street pavement
  and Benefit Cost ratio (B:C) at 15% is 1.1. The NPV at 15% is PKR 32.71 million using
  economic prices. The FIRR for the entire project is 19.7% with B:C at 15% as 1.1 and
  NPV of PKR100.4 million.




                                              44
           Table 3-3. Cost effectiveness for various Aggregated Scheme types
                            Parameter           Amount     Weighted contribution to
                                              invested –
     Scheme type
                       NPV B:C IRR               PKR        NPV B:C         IRR
                                               (Million)
                                         Financial
    Water supply        2.24 1.15 22.1%            464.6    31.61 0.22         4.1%
    Street
    pavement            1.33 1.08 18.1%            923.8    37.45 0.40         6.7%
    Drain               0.36 1.12 19.8%            394.2     4.33 0.18         3.1%
    Roads               1.22 1.13 20.2%            208.0     7.70 0.09         1.7%
    Other costs*        1.29 1.12 20.1%            492.7    19.29 0.22         4.0%
                      Total                     2483.155 100.37 1.11         19.7%
                                        Economic
    Water supply        1.18 1.09 19.2%            394.9    14.15 0.20         3.6%
    Street
    pavement            0.29 1.02 15.8%            785.2     6.92 0.38         5.9%
    Drain               0.16 1.06 17.3%            335.0     1.59 0.17         2.8%
    Roads               0.57 1.07 17.8%            176.8     3.07 0.09         1.5%
    Other costs         0.55 1.06 17.5%            418.8     6.99 0.21         3.5%
                      Total                       2110.7    32.71 1.05       17.2%
       * This includes expenditure on technical assistance/implementation support and
       Institutional strengthening/ capacity development.


3.7 Conclusion
3.7.1 In the light of foregoing analysis, it can be concluded that the indicative figures of
returns on investment in various schemes are more than the prevailing cut-off rate of
15%. The NPV and B:C is also positive.




                                             45
Appendix 1 Benefits from a sample of selected infrastructure schemes

 Appendix Table 1 : Benefis from Selected Drinking Water Supply Subprojects
                       TMA                             Karak      Bannu     Lakki
                                                                            Dawn
                                                                Alamgar,
                                                      Malangi               Khiru
                       CCB                                       K. Khan
                                                      Chontra               Khel
                                                                  Khel
                                                                            Paka

 Cost - mRs                                                  2.82       4.00       2.15

 Cost @ 2010 level - mil Rs                                  3.02       4.35        2.34
 Previous source                                             Lake        well    Stream
 No. of HHs benefitted                                        450        390         400
 Time in bringing water previously - hrs/ day/HH             2.25       2.75         2.5
 Time consumed after scheme construction - hrs/HH/day          1.5        1.0       1.75
 Time saved per HH/day (adult + child)                       0.75       1.75        0.75
 Children share in time used - %                             20%        20%        20%
 Time saving/ HH/ day (child = 50% adult) - female hrs        0.7         1.6        0.7
 Total time lost for all HHs - days/year                    13859      28025      12319
 Productive time as % of total time lost                     15%        20%        15%
 Value of productive time lost @ Rs 150/day - mRs            0.31       0.84        0.28
 Medicinal cost savings due to better water -
 Rs/HH/month                                                  175        200       150
 Medicinal cost savings for all HHs - mil Rs                0.945      0.936       0.72

 Total savings - mil Rs                                       1.3        1.8        1.0
 O&M as % of Capital cost                                    15%        15%        15%

 Appendix Table 2: Benefits from Street Pavement
                  TMA                       Haripur        Swat      Havelian   Bannu T-I    Pesh T-I
                                            Ganger,       Welfare,              T. Bezan
                  CCB                       Galian        Balaho       Lora       Khel       Progress
 HH members falling ill - days/month/HH
                                                                                      2.30
   Before Street pavement                          1.60       1.70       2.00                    1.50
                                                                                      1.20
   After Street pavement                           1.00       1.20       1.10                    1.30
                                                                                      1.10
   Decrease in persons falling ill                 0.60       0.50       0.90                    0.20
                                                                                      200
 Average consultation fee per visit - Rs           175         160       175                      150
                                                                                      150
 Average cost of medicines per visit - Rs          125         160       170                      140

 Annual medical cost savings per HH - Rs          2,160      1,920      3,726        4,620        696



                                             46
Special Vehicles hired/HH per year - trips                                                0.35
                                                     0.35      0.40       0.35                          0.35
Benefits from less damage to Boundary walls
  Average annual wall damage savings per
                                                                                          700
House - Rs                                           500       700         500                           400
  No. of HHs benefitted                                                                   300
                                                     200       150         220                           350
  Total benefits due to less water seepage -
Rs                                              100,000     105,000   110,000          210,000       140,000
Vehicle rent savings/trip                                                                 250
                                                     200       400         350                           200
Savings from special vehicles - Rs/annum                                                      88
                                                      70       160         123                            70

Annual savings per HH - Rs                          2,230     2,080      3,849           4,708           766
Time lost as % of time saved due to illness          15%       15%        15%             15%           15%
Productive time lost per family per year -
                                                                                          2.00
days/HH                                              2.30      2.90       1.80                          1.90
Average earnings per day work - Rs                                                        175
                                                     160       175         175                           175
Value of productive time utilized -
                                                                                          350
Rs/HH/annum                                          368       508         315                           333
Benefits/HH on account of illness & time
lost - Rs/annum                                     2,598     2,588      4,164           5,058         1,099
Benefits for all HHs - mil Rs                                                             1.73
                                                     0.62      0.49       1.03                          0.52
                                                                                          4.33
Scheme cost- Rs                                      1.52      1.35       2.78                          2.10
Year of construction                                 6/09     12/07       6/07            6/07          6/07
                                                                                              12
Period since completion - months                      15        12            12                          12
                                                                                          4.85
Scheme cost at 2010 level                           1.75       1.51       3.12                          2.35
O&M as % of Capital cost                            10%        10%        10%             10%           10%

Appendix Table 3: Benefits from Drains
                                                               Pesh Town
                            TMA                                    IV          Abbottabad          Havelian
                                                                                                   Panjgran
                              CCB                              Surrai CCB          Makool           Maira
HH members falling ill before - days/month/HH                         1.30              1.2               1.4
HH members falling ill after drain construction -
                                                                       1.00             0.9               1.2
days/month/HH
Decrease in persons falling ill/ HH                                    0.30            0.30              0.20
Average consultation fee per visit - Rs                                 175             160               150
Average cost of medicines per visit - Rs                                170             160               150
Annual medical cost savings per HH - Rs                               1,242           1,152               720
Average annual wall damage savings per House - Rs                       400             800               500


                                               47
Time lost as % of time saved due to illness                             15%               15%              15%
Productive time lost per family per year - days/HH                      1.20              0.90             0.80
Average earnings per day work - Rs                                       175               175              175
Value of productive time utilized - Rs/HH/annum                           32                24               21
Reduction in vehicle fare due to stagnant water in streets - Rs/
                                                                         150               150               50
trip
No. of trips of special vehicles per annum/ HH                            0.9               0.8              0.9
Benefits as reduced vehicle transport cost for all HHs- Rs               135               120               45
Total benefits/ HH per annum - Rs                                      1,409             1,296              786
No. of HHs benefitted                                                    350               225               40
Total benefits - mil Rs                                                 0.49              0.29             0.03
Scheme cost- Rs                                                         1.28              0.80             0.09
Year of construction                                                    6/09             12/07             6/07
Period since completion - months                                            8               10                 9
Scheme cost at 2010 level                                               1.39              0.88             0.09
O&M as % of Capital cost                                                10%               10%              10%

Appendix Table 4: Benefits from Roads
                                                        Bannu       Bannu     Sarai
                       TMA                                                                   Karak        Tank
                                                        Town I     Town II   Naurang
                                                                                                          Daman
                                                                                Durana      United
                                                        T. Bezan    Peer                                   Dev.
                        CCB                               Khel     Mumtaz
                                                                                Takhti      Sabir
                                                                                                         Committ
                                                                                 Khel       Abad
                                                                                                            ee
No. of HHs benefitted (Member HHs)                          300        470         400            400        200
User HHs - non members i/c adjoining areas                 1300        300         200            150        300
Total use HHs                                              1600        770         600            550        500
Benefits for Farm produce marketing/ input cost
  Farm area benefitted by road - acres                     1200        500         700             900      1500
  Average produce per acre - tons                           0.6        0.6         0.6             0.6       0.6
  Total annual farm produce - tons                          720        300         420             540       900
  Produce using road for marketing - %                     50%        50%         50%             50%       50%
  Quantity using road for marketing - tons/annum            360        150         210             270       450
  Reduction in produce transport due to improved
road - Rs/ ton                                               150        75         100            100        150
  Benefits on account of reduced transport charges
-Rs/ annum                                                54000     11250        21000        27000       67500
  Fertilizer brought via road for farm use - bags/
acre/ annum                                                 1.25      1.25         1.25           1.25      1.25
  Reduction in transport cost for fertilizer - Rs/
bag                                                         4.00      2.00         2.00           2.00      2.50
  Benefits as reduced transport cost of fertilizer/
annum - Rs                                                 6,000     1,250       1,750        2,250        4,688
Commuter benefits
  Persons commuting per HH per month - No                      9         7           6               6             9


                                                48
  Average vehicles plying daily - No                  160         77        60        55        50
  Savings in passenger fare per trip - Rs               5          3         3         3         3
  Savings in commuter charges per annum for all
users - Rs                                        864,000    194,040    129,600   118,800   162,000
  Savings in VOC per vehicle per trip - Rs             9.5        3.5         3         3         4
  Total savings for all users per annum - Rs       554800    98367.5      65700     60225     73000
  Savings from all counts - mil Rs                   1.48       0.30       0.22      0.21      0.31

Scheme cost- mil Rs                                  4.09       0.73       0.54      0.56      0.82
Year of construction                                 5/07       7/08       7/08      7/08      7/08

Period since completion - months                        6         14        12         6         6

Scheme cost at 2010 level                            4.32       0.83       0.60      0.60      0.86
O&M as % of Capital cost                             10%        10%        10%       10%       10%




                                           49
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                            Title               Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Kevin Crockford             Sr Rural Development Specialist   SASDA
Nadir Abbas                 Consultant                        SASDU
Raja Rehan Arshad           Lead Operations Specialist        SASDU
Javaid Afzal                Sr Environmental Spec.            SASDI
Muhammad Omar Khalied       Environment Consultant            SASDI
Shabir Ahmad                Program Assistant                 SASDO
Masroor Ahmad               Water & Sanitation Specialist     ETWSA
Mohammad Akbar              Consultant                        SASDA
Zia Al Jalaly               Senior Social Development Spec    SASDI
Ghulam Ali                  Program Assistant                 SASDO
Asif Ali                    Senior Procurement Specialist     SARPS
Anwar Ali Bhatti            Financial Analyst                 SACPK
Riaz Mahmood                Financial Management Analyst      SARFM
Ambreen Iqbal Malik         Operations Analyst                SASDA
Vandana Mehra               Communications Officer            ETWSA
Hasan Masood Mirza          Consultant                        SARPS
Hasan Saqib                 Sr Financial Management Specia    SARFM
Shahzad Sharjeel            Sr Communications Officer         AFREX
Tahira Syed                 Operations Officer                SASDA
Syeda Maheen Zehra          Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.       ETWSA

   (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
   (The system pulls data available for all fields)

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

    Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands
                                       No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)

           Lending

  FY03                                                                  33.08
  FY04                                                                 151.99
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00


                                            50
FY07                     0.00
FY08                     0.00
Total:                 185.07
Supervision/ICR
FY03                     0.00
FY04                     0.00
FY05                    79.30
FY06                   101.55
FY07                    94.74
FY08                    79.14




                  51
                     Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

No survey was done




                                         52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1. Introduction

1.1    Two stakeholder workshops were held by the ICR Mission with a view to have
maximum direct interactions with project beneficiaries and staff of TMAs in a limited
available time and restrained mobility owing to the prevailing security situation. The first
workshop was held in Peshawar on May 27, 2010, while the second was held in
Islamabad on June 2, 2010. In addition, an informal meeting was also held in Peshawar
on June 8, 2010 with selected CCBs and with staff members of a few TMAs.

1.2    Questionnaires were also filled by a total of 32 representatives from both the
categories: CCBs and TMAs.


2. Workshop Methodology

2.1 Number of Participants

2.1.1 A total of 30 representatives, 18 from 8 CCBs and 12 from 6 TMAs, participated
in the workshop held in Peshawar, while the workshop in Islamabad was attended by 16
representatives of 6 CCBs and 4 TMAs; a total of 46 participated in the workshops. The
tables below show the number of CCB and TMA participants.


2.2 Selection Processes

2.2.1 The selection of participants were made by PSCU through consultation processes
with the ICR mission. The PSCU together with RCSU provided the ICR mission a list of
with 2-3 representatives per CCB and 1-2 officers per TMAs each of the nine RSCUs.
Then ICR mission selected participants from the list. The main criterion used was the
geographical distribution. The ICR requested to have two workshops; one in Islamabad
with CCBs locate closer to the capital (through direct road routes), while those near to
Peshawar and very remote location in the Northern and Southern extremes of the project
area would come to the Peshawar workshop.


2.3 Group Formations

2.3.1 In each workshop the participants were divided into various groups; each
comprising 4-6 members. Cautious efforts were made in group formation so that
representatives of CCBs and of TMAs remain in separate groups in capturing unbiased
feedback.




                                             53
             Table 6-1. Number of Participants by districts – Peshawar Workshop
              No.             District         CCB         TMA            Total
               1       Bannu                          2           2                4
               2       Buner                          2           1                3
               3       Chitral                                    1                1
               4       D.I.Khan                       4           3                7
               5       Karak                          2           2                4
               6       Kohat                          2           2                4
               7       Lakki Marwat                   1                            1
               8       Swat                           2           1                3
               9       Tank                           3                            3
                               Total                 18          12                30

             Table 2. Number of Participants by districts – Islamabad Workshop
               No.            District         CCB         TMA             Total
                1      Abbottabad                    3                              3
                2      Haripur Hazara                2            1                 3
                3      Mansehra                      1            1                 2
                4      Mardan                        1                              1
                5      Nowshera                      3                              3
                6      Peshawar                      1            3                 4
                              Total                  11           5                16


3. Key Findings through Group Presentations

3.1       The key points are summarized here below:

         There was a general consensus among all participants that despite many
          weaknesses and delays in scheme choice as well its implementation, community-
          based approach in CIPs is a welcome development.
         Generally, the quality of works executed under the Project is much better (far
          superior, according to many participants) than typical government implemented
          schemes.
         The success of the completed schemes can be gauged from the fact that politicians
          of the area start running after the CCBs so that post facto they can get some credit
          in scheme’s allocation or resolving its pending implementation issues, or
          obtaining other favors of government support for this particular scheme or future
          schemes if the CCB agrees to include name of this particular politician in the plate
          (bill board/hoarding).



                                               54
         The CIP-II’s implementation approach resulted in better use of public resources.
          This has been made possible because of the stake of the community were
          involved at every stage; the communities contributed physically, financially and
          provided the necessary oversight as if completing their own works.
         While participants did not single out any outstanding tools they may have
          acquired from the CIP-II experience, majority of the CCBs appear to have gained
          confidence from the CAP process in reflecting their community needs (for small
          infrastructure projects/schemes) and the needs to address them.
         Capacity building of the CCBs has remained a weak link; more so in the case of
          TMAs, whose staff were the implementers without the resources. It came out
          quite clearly that the capacity of the relevant TMAs staff was not appropriately
          enhanced, social organizers (SOs) came to their rescue very late and the
          competence or dedication of such SOs was questionable, on tops of the fact that
          none of the TMAs technical staff responsible for site visits to CIP schemes had
          mobility (motorcycles or small jeeps).
         Many CCBs are against the contracting procedure of small-scale schemes, which
          according to them are corruption prone (rent seeking), increase the costs, and
          contractors’ 15% profit hurts them. This trend indicates that clearly the threshold
          of CIP contracts that could be handled by the CCBs themselves without a ‘formal’
          contractor needs to be reviewed with, of course, a functional technical assistance
          or advisory provided by the implementing agency; be it the TMA or a specific
          arm of the CIP-regional technical assistance team.


4. Key Findings through Questionnaire Analysis

4.1    About 32 participants (10 from TMA and 22 from CCBs) of the two workshops
gave their written responses on the pre-designed questionnaire containing 46 questions.
These responses were analyzed on the basis of affirmative replies by TMA and CCBs.

4.2       Analysis of responses on some key questions is as follows:

         About 100 % of the participants termed CAP a useful document.
         56 % of the participants think CCBs shall sustain.
         100 % participants responded that the poor were involved in project planning.
         80% of participants think that infrastructure projects help in reducing health
          related expenditures.
         40% of the participants responded that the project contributed in time saving.
         About 100% of the participants think that project contributed in income
          generation (in terms of more economic activities, time saving, saving in buying
          water).


                                               55
      9 % of the participants responded that they provided their contribution in terms of
       labor.
      59 % said that training for book keeping was imparted.
      46 % responses indicate that women were involved in CAP formulation
      78 % of the participants said that women were involved in identifying community
       needs.


4.3    These questions were further analyzed to assess the difference of views between
CCBs and TMA staff. It was found that there were only 2 questions that the both parties
agreed. Table 3 provides the differences of responses between TMA and CCB in
percentage along with the relevant questions. Whereas, Table 4 shows the affirmative
responses of all questions in percentage by representatives of CCBs and TMAs.




                                           56
       Table 3. Differences between TMA and CCBs in % of total Questions Asked
Total Agreement (in 4 % of total responses)
                              CAP is a useful document
                              Sub Committees formed for executing works.
Difference Range from 1-10 % (in 13 % responses)
                              CCB had leading role in scheme identification
                              CCB faced social issues in Scheme implementation
                              Implementation of training skills has improved health status of the
                              household
                              Scheme operation supervised by Sub Committees
                              Financial needs met by regular contribution
Difference Range from 11-20 % (in 15 % of total responses)
                              Planning & implementation was decentralized
                              CCB has linkages with other organizations
                              Deduction as Contractor's profit is unreasonable
                              Training participants shared their training lessons with other
                              members in general members meeting
                              Skill building trainings were identified by CCB members
                              Training imparted for post completion operation/maintenance
                              Security situation affected the project
Difference Range from 21-50 % (in 24 % of total responses)
                              Time for awareness was sufficient
                              CCB can develop proposal for other organizations
                              CCB will sustain in future
                              Scheme cost should be enhanced
                              Sub Committee formed by selection
                              Works supervised by Sub Committees
                              Works executed are better than CIP-I
                              Waste water disposed off in streams
                              Project has benefited the poor/ vulnerable groups
                              Project benefited in the form of time saving
                              Elites influenced the project selection process
Difference > 50 % (in 26 % of total responses)
                              Women involved in CAP formulation
                              Training for professional staff is required
                              Payment process is faulty
                              Selection of training participants carried out in CCB meeting
                              Selection of training participants was carried out in CCB meeting
                              Implementation of training skills has improved income level of the
                              household
                              Schemes identified by Communities
                              Women involved in identifying needs
                              Solid waste disposed off in fill site
                              Trainings imparted to comply with specifications/read drawings
                              Training for book keeping imparted
                              Project benefited in the form of reduced health expenditure
Total Disagreement            NIL


                                               57
        Table 4. Affirmative Response of Participants in Percent of total Responses

                                                                                                          Percentage Response by        Weighted Average
S.No.                                                  Questions
                                                                                                                                              (%)
                                                                                                           TMA           CCB

 1       Came to know of CIP through Media                                                                                         73                73
 2       CAP is a useful document                                                                                100           100                  100
 3       CCB can develop proposal for other organizations                                                        100               59                65
 4       CCB faced social issues in Scheme implementation                                                         30               36                34
 5       CCB had leading role in scheme identification                                                           100               91                94
 6       CCB has linkages with other organizations                                                                30               45                41
 7       CCB will sustain in future                                                                               40               64                56
 8       Deduction as Contractor's profit is unreasonable                                                         90               77                81
 9       Elites influenced the project selection process                                                                           40                40
 10      Fiancial needs met by regular contribution                                                               40               36                38
 11      Financial management carried out by CCB                                                                  40               41                41
 12      Implementation of training skills has improved health status of the household                           100               95                96
 13      Implementation of training skills has improved income level of the household                             40           100                   81
 14      Payment process is faulty                                                                                90               32                50
 15      Planning & implementation was decentralized                                                             100               86                90
 16      Poor/ vulnerable groups involved in project activities                                                                100                  100
 17      Project benefitted in the form of reduced health expenditure                                                              80                80
 18      Project benefitted in the form of time saving                                                                             40                40
 19      Project contributed in income generation                                                                              100                  100
 20      Project has benefitted the poor/ vulnerable groups                                                                        45                31
 21      Scheme cost should be enhanced                                                                          100               59                72
 22      Scheme operation supervised by Sub Committees                                                            40               50                47
 23      Schemes identified by Communities                                                                        40           100                   81
 24      Security situation affected the project                                                                                   20                20
 25      Selection of training participants carried out in CCB meeting                                            30           100                   78
 26      Selection of training participants was carried out in CCB meeting                                        40               95                78
 27      Skill building trainings were identified by CCB members                                                 100               86                88
 28      Solid waste disposed off in fill site                                                                   100                5                34
 29      Solid waste disposed off in soaking pits                                                                                   5                  5
 30      Some members contribute in the form of labour                                                            10                9                  9
 31      Some members do not contribute their share                                                                                59                59
 32      Sub Committees formed for executing works.                                                              100           100                  100
 33      Sub Committes formed by selection                                                                        60               27                38
 34      Time for awareness was sufficient                                                                       100               76                84
 35      Training for book keeping imparted                                                                      100               41                59
 36      Training for professional staff is required                                                             100               23                47
 37      Training imparted for post completion operation/maintenance                                              40               59                53
 38      Training participants shared their training lessons with other members in general members meet           75               95                92
 39      Trainings imparted to comply with specifications/read drawings                                          100               36                56
 40      Waste water disposed off in streams                                                                      40               14                22
 41      Women involved in CAP formulation                                                                       100               38                46
 42      Women involved in identifying needs                                                                      40               95                78
 43      Women not involved in CAP formulation                                                                                     62                62
 44      Works executed are better than CIP-I                                                                     60               95                84
 45      Works supervised by CCB members                                                                                           55                55
 46      Works supervised by Sub Committees                                                                      100               55                69



                                                                         58
Appendix 1. Some Key Points of Group Presentations

Workshop at Peshawar

CCBs’ Point of View

Presentation 1

      The projects under CIP-II were completed through a process of Community
       Mobilization and should be further strengthened through in time induction of
       qualified staff in CIP-
      CIP-II projects have been implemented well even in remote areas of the province
       despite limited logistic supports.
      Project got the appreciation of the community because of its effectiveness in
       catering the needs of community at grassroots level.
      TMAs also got the appreciation from the community members in facilitating them
       for the formulation of CAPs
      Technical appraisal done by TMAs was also acknowledged by CCBs.
Recommendations

      The next project should follow the approach and methodology adopted in CIP-I
       instead of CIP-II.
      The project ceiling of PKR 4 million per CCB should be increased to 6 million for
       next phase.
      CCB share should be reduced to 15% of total cost in next phase instead of current
       20 % share.
      Political involvement of MPAs and Nazims delays the implementation of the
       schemes. Their involvement can be mitigated or reduced if CIP-I project design
       is applied in next phase.
      The policy of open tenders should be avoided to mitigate corruption in the next
       phase and CCBs should be trusted more.


TMAs’ Point of View

Presentation 2

      Many programs were initiated in NWFP but the achievements made through CIP-
       II are much more as it has addressed the needs of poor at grass roots level. Its



                                           59
       success shows a wide acceptability of its approach by the communities. CIP-I
       model is better than CIP-II.
      Social Mobilization should be strengthened further in next phase and social
       organizers need to be appointed by TMAs.


Workshop at Islamabad

CCBs’ Point of View

Presentation – I


      While emphasizing the importance of social mobilization as foundation for all of
       the participatory approaches; CCBs are of the view that importance given to this
       sensitive aspect was not satisfactory, as it is an evolutionary process that needs
       pragmatic approach to bring attitudinal change in communities for sustainable
       local institutions.

      With regards to CAP development it was suggested that the training duration
       should be increased up to at least 15 days as they thought it was a very important
       activity that took place in short time. For the proper & true reflection of the
       community needs with accurate facts & figures & for sprouting future plan, this
       exercise needs more time and that should not be less than two –three months.

      It was also suggested that CAP should be taken as dynamic document which
       should cope the needs of future time and as such it should be reviewed & updated
       at least annually to reflect any changes in community needs.

      Due to security situation the participation of women remained very restricted
       across the province. But where ever the situation allows the communities made
       deliberate and successful efforts to involve women in all development process.

      The group suggested for the development of entrepreneur linkages with markets
       in bigger cities and establishment of cottage industry at the grassroots.

      It was further recommended to link the Infrastructure initiatives with some
       income generating:

      The trainings and capacity building initiatives of TMAs in CIP-I was much
       appreciated by the CCB group as it resulted in safe deliveries & other hygienic
       trends at the community level. But in CIP-II this was a neglected area. It was
       suggested to incorporate such initiatives to reduce the health expenditures & to
       establish health centers run by women for healthy mother & child.

      It was suggested that young women folk be given incentives with the new trends
       by harnessing their existing strengths and skills. They should be imparted with


                                           60
      computer skills and all other related trainings to equip them with appropriate
      capacities /skills to meet the challenges of new avenues.

     It was suggested that women should be provided with proper laundry places at
      water channels to wash their clothes in the next phase. These facilities should be
      built on the sides of the canals and rivers.

     The TMA staff needs appreciation for their efforts and support. But at the same
      time it should be noted that they are mostly over burdened with MNAs and MPAs
      funded works and already occupied schedule would usually leave little time for
      CIP-II activities and objectives.

     With the involvement of TMAs in CIP-II, the community has to face more
      lengthy procedures that delayed the work and affected the outcomes. So it was
      suggested to skip these tiers by strengthening the institution of CIP for increased
      efficiency.

     It was stressed that 15% deduction (contractor profit plus income tax) in
      secondary projects should be utilized in the same community rather spending
      these savings on other CCBs.

     Political influence should be minimized.

     Sub project ceiling of PKR 4 million should be increased to PKR 10 million for
      next phase of CIP.

     Awareness campaigns should be maximized and conducted religiously e.g.,
      Campaign on tree plantation health, hygiene, latrines, etc. It has been proved
      that these are very simple and affordable activities but have great impact on the
      lives of the rural poor.
Presentation – II

     The efforts for conducting this experience sharing workshop were highly
      appreciated.

     It was suggested by the group to eliminate the role of Tehsil Nazim & Tehsil
      Council because it really affected the CCBs ’performance and was the cause of
      delays.

     Political Influence should be eradicated once TMA is assigned /accorded with its
      role and responsibilities.

     The extra deduction of 15% (for secondary works on account of contractor’s
      profit and income tax) on top of 20 % community share is an injustice with poor
      communities. It is highly recommended to wave off this condition.




                                           61
      Communities’ role should be enhanced in prioritization of local needs for
       infrastructure development.

      CAP activity needs more time, guidance and facilitation.

      For the funds disbursements to communities the process is too lengthy that results
       in project delays. It was suggested to shorten the process without compromising
       on quality and transparency.

      It was suggested that CCBs should be capacitated, with the appropriate
       information, knowledge & skills on monthly basis, so that the problems faced in
       implementation of schemes should be solved instantly for better performance and
       results.

      The CCBs with low and poor performance shouldn’t be included in next phase.

      Procurement process takes more time causing increase in rates due to inflation
       resulting in contractors’ negligence in the execution of primary works.

      If there is next phase the women should be focused more by providing them the
       opportunities for income generation &economic uplift.


TMAs’ Point of View

Presentation III
    The representative shared that CIP-II has strengthened TMAs financial position.
       With just 10% financial support TMAs has effortlessly completed 100% of the
       designated work.

      With regards to social mobilization it was told that for almost two years TMAs
       were without any Social Mobilization staff. After then it was outsourced to small
       NGOs with untrained and unskilled staff. Due to poor social mobilization the
       involvement of women in the project was also lacking besides other implications.

      Political interference and influence for the induction of SOs was also witnessed.

      It was suggested that CIP model should be simplified to make it friendlier for all
       stakeholders.

      The budget should be specified & allocated for Capacity building Initiatives for
       TMAs’ staff.

      At least 2% of the budget should be allocated for women skill centers with the
       provision of tools/machines to be provided by the project as a grant, to raise their
       income and get out of poverty.

      Local skills need to be harnessed and promoted by establishing Display Centers
       and by developing productive linkages with entrepreneurs & markets.


                                            62
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s ICR had not been finalized. However, comments were received from the
Local Government Election and Rural Development Department on the draft ICRR and
have been addressed in this final version. These comments included:

The ICRR has been prepared after visiting the project schemes, the relevant offices of the
TMAs, RCSUs and PCSUs followed by two workshops one in Peshawar and the other in
Islamabad. The required data/record was made available by the project management on
TOP PRIORITY which was not only acknowledged but appreciated by the ICRR Team.
Various case studies including the TPV report were shared (with soft copy) to facilitate
the team in completing the assignment in time. For participation in the workshops, the
ICRR team picked up sample TMAs and CCBs and there was 100% attendance including
the representatives from Chitral who travelled by air to attend the workshop. The team
not only acknowledged the information/data but also appreciated the project management
for sharing both the strengths and weaknesses of the project. Some useful lessons learned
and recommendations have been reported, however, the report in several cases does not
reflect the factual position which is evident from the following examples:
      Perhaps the team could not conceive the basic concept of the project e.g. in both
       the PAD and PC-I, it is explicitly mentioned that TMAs/CCBs are the
       implementing arms of the project, whereas PCSU/RCSUs have been entrusted the
       role of planning, monitoring and coordination. In contrary to this at paragraph
       2.3.2, the report mentions that there was no specific M&E staff assigned to
       RCSU/TMAs. In fact it is on record that formal meetings on the monthly progress
       report submitted by the RCSUs/TMAs were held at the PCSU level, properly
       documented and the short comings were communicated to the concerned staff for
       course correction. In fact the project M&E(PCSU&RCSUs) remained the driving
       force in the implementation of the project.
      It has been reported under implementation that the planned M &E system was not
       fully implemented. The detailed monthly meeting under the Director General with
       formal record note and follow up were held and the record of such meetings was
       shared with the visiting team. In the PCSU level meeting the progress report
       submitted to the PCSU has been scrutinized by the M&E wing including the
       progress report of the field (RCSU/TMAs) and the sections of the PCSUs.
       However, the report described at paragraph 2.3.2 under implementation that every
       section at PCSU had its independent data management system which was not
       interlinked with each other. In fact, the data has properly scrutinized at the PCSU
       level and consequently the project regularly submitted the QPRs to both the
       Government and the Word Bank.
      At paragraph 3.3.1, the report describes that the inability of the ICRR mission to
       collect the data through field visit because of the security concern, this analysis
       provides only indicative figures. Whereas in fact in the same situation the TPV
       team completed its assignment and highlighted both the strengths and weaknesses
       supported by detail analysis/data.



                                           63
   At paragraph 3.4 it is concluded in the report that overall outcome rating was
    moderately unsatisfactory. The report in itself highlight that project has been able
    to achieve most of its targets in spite of the security constraints and threats to the
    project staff. Even in the comparatively challenging area of strengthening CCBs
    and TMAs, the project succeeded in achieving the important mile stones like
    formation of CAP, schemes PC-Is duly approved by the competent forum and
    adjustment of advances in spite of the laborious design of the project. Therefore
    implementing agency qualifies to be placed in the satisfactory category.




                                         64
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                      65
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. Department of Agricultural Engineering NWFP University of Engineering and
      Technology, 2009, Environmental Audit of Selected CIP-II Sub-Projects
   2. Development Management Consultants, 2009, Draft Report Volume-1 Third Party
      Validation (TPV) NWFP – CIP-II
   3. Government of Pakistan Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Planning, Planning
      Division, 2004, Planning Commission Document-1 (PC-1) for Community
      Infrastructure Project.
   4. Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International Development Association, 2004, NWFP
      Community Infrastructure Project, Credit Number 3906-PAK, Development Credit
      Agreement
   5. International Development Association and North West Frontier Province, 2004, NWFP
      Community Infrastructure Project, Credit Number 3906-PAK, Project Agreement
   6. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD), 2004, NWFP
      Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), Operational Manual, Main Guidelines
   7. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD), NWFP, Community
      Infrastructure Project (CIP), Quarterly Progress/Monitoring Reports,
   8. Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD), NWFP,
      Community Infrastructure Project (CIP-II), Project files.
   9. Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD), NWFP,
      Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), project books maintained by CIP & CCBs.
   10. Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD), GoNWFP,
       Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), Measurement books of some projects.
   11. Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGE&RDD),
       GoNWFP, Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), Public Works Department, Schedule
       of rates for year 1998 and onwards
   12. Memorandum of Understanding between CIP -II & TMAs, LGE&RDD
   13. NWFP CIP - 2 Supervision, Financial Management August 30-31, 2005
   14. NWFP CIP – 2, Implementation Review - Financial Management February 2007
   15. Planning & Development Department, GoNWFP 2004, Multiple Indicators Cluster
       Survey (MICS)
   16. Project Coordination and Support Unit, 2007, Contract Agreement Between CIP-II and
       MIS Consultant
   17. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Memo on Development of MIS Software
   18. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Brief on NWFP – Community Infrastructure
       Project - II
   19. Project Coordination and Support Unit, 2007, Report on Case Study, Conversion from
       Primary to Secondary Works
   20. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Report on Social and Institutional Assessment



                                             66
21. Project Coordination and Support Unit, 2007, Case Study Report No.4 TMA Timergara
22. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Special Report to Women and Children
23. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Quarterly Progress Report, Period (April- June,
    2009) Community Infrastructure Project, LGE & RDD
24. Project Coordination and Support Unit, Revised Action Plan for Special Support to
    Women and Children,
25. Report on Social & Institutional Assessment Pakistan: NWFP Community Infrastructure
    Project-II (CIP2), November 26, 2003
26. The World Bank, 2004, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount
    of US$ 37.10 Million equivalent to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the NWFP
    Community Infrastructure Project
27. The World Bank, 2005, Project Performance Assessment Report, The Islamic Republic
    of Pakistan, Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit, NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit,
    NWFP Community Infrastructure and NHA Strengthening Credit
28. The World Bank, 2005-2009, Islamabad Office, NWFP Community Infrastructure
    Project, various Aid Memoires of IDA Supervision Missions
29. The World Bank, Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) # 1-13 Archived
30. The World Bank, 2007, Mid Term Review Mission Report
31. The World Bank, Community Infrastructure Review: A Case of Pakistan (prepared by
    Halcrow, November 2010)




                                           67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33231R
                       65°        UZBEK.                70°         TAJIKISTAN 75°
                                                  TAJIK.
                                                                                 CHINA                                                          72°                                                                           74°
        TURKMENISTAN

                                                                                                                                              TAJIKISTAN
35°                                                                 KPK                                35°
                                                                                        •• •                •
                                                                  (NWFP)               •    • •••
                                                                                                  • • •• •
                                                                                                          •




                                                                                     •
                                                                              • •• •
                                                                                           Approx. Line




                                                                              • •
                                                                 Peshawar       ••
                                                                                           of Control
                 A F G H A N I S TA N




                                                                                    •
                                                                                   •




                                                                               •
                                                                                            JAMMU




                                                                               •
                                                                                  •
                                                                  Islamabad




                                                                                  ••
                                                                                  •
                                                                                  ••
                                                                                             AND
                                                                                           KASHMIR




                                                                               •

                                                                                         • •
                                                                 PUNJAB
30°                                                                                                    30°
                                                                                                                     36°                                                                                                      36°



                 BALOCHISTAN
ISLAMIC
R E P. O F
                                                                            I N D I A
  IRAN                                                                                                                                          Chitral


                                                SINDH
25°                                                                                                    25°



      Arabian        Sea
                                                                                                                                                      MALAKAND
                      65°                                  70°                                   75°
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dasu
                                                                                                                                                      Dir
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
  any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
  or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                           MANSEHRA
                                                                                                                                                      Timargara

                                                                                                                                   Khar
             0   20          40        60        80        100 KILOMETERS

             0   10    20         30        40     50 MILES
                                                                                                                                              Malakand

                                                                                                                                   Ghalanai
                                                                                                                                                                                     Mansehra
                                                           N
 34°                                             A
                                            T                                                                              Landi                            MARDAN                 Abbottabad                                  34°

                                   S                                                                                       Kotal    PESHAWAR
                                                                                                                           Peshawar                                                  HAZARA
                            I




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Approximate
                      N




                                                              Parachinar                                                                                                                                    Line of Control

                                                                                                                Kalaya
                 A




                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                            ve
                 H




                                                                                                                           Kohat
                                                                                                                                                          Ri
        A F G




                                                                                                                                                                        P U N J A B
                                                                                                                                                      s




                                                                                                                      KOHAT
                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                      Karak
                                                           Miranshah

                                                                            Bannu
                                                                                                                                                                        PA K I S TA N
                                                                              BANNU                                                                     S E C O N D N W F P*
                                                                                                                                                          COMMUNITY
                                  Wana                                                                                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
 32°                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT (CIP - II)                                                      32°

                                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                      D.I. KHAN                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                     er




                                                                                  D.I. Khan
                                                                                                                  Riv




                                                                                                                                                                            DIVISION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                us




                                                                                                                                                                            TRIBAL AREA
                                                                                                         Ind




       B A L O C H I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                  *renamed to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province in 2010.
                                                                                                                                                                   North West Frontier Province (NWFP) was officially

                                                 70°                                                                                                    72°                                                                   74°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JANUARY 2011
