Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19567 YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRI.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 28, 1999
Private Sector Development and Finance
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQtUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/98)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 100 = US$0.70
US$1 = YR 142
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIAS                Foreign Investment Advisory Service
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IMF                 Intemational Monetary Fund
MOJ                 Ministry of Justice
MOLPA               Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs
UTNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President: Kemal Dervis
Country Director: Inder Sud
Sector Director: WViafik Grais
Task Team Leader: Hadi Abushakra



Republic of Yemen
Legal and Judicial Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators                   2
B. Strategic Context                                                                     2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                               2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             4
4. LILrationale                                                                   4
C. Project Description Summary                                                           6
1. Project components                                                             6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  6
3. Benefits and target population                                                 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  7
5. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements                      7
D. Project Rationale                                                                     8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      8
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies       9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                       9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                              10
5. Value added of IDA support in this project                                    10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                              11
1. Economic                                                                      11
2. Financial                                                                     11
3. Technical                                                                     11
4. Institutional                                                                  11
5. Social                                                                        11
6. Environmental assessment                                                      11
7. Participatory approach                                                        I 1
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                              12
1. Sustainability                                                                12
2. Critical risks                                                                12
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                12



G. Main Credit Conditions                                                              13
1. Effectiveness and other conditions                                           13
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        13
I. Compliance with IDA Policies                                                         13
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estinmated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Economic Analysis
Annex 4.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Stateiment of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance



Republic of Yemen
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Middle East Department
Date: June 28, 1999                                 Task Team Leader: Hadi Abushakra
Country Director: Inder Sud                         Sector Director: Wafik Grais
Project ID: 57915      Sector: Legal                Program Objective Category: PV
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL) Program of Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan       [X] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDRI.8 million equivalent
Proposed terms:
Grace period (years): 10
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50% (less any waivers)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ million):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                   0.44              $0.00            $0.44
IDA                                                          0.79               1.72             2.50
Total          $1.23              $1.72            $2.94
Borrower: Republic of Yemen
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs (MOLPA); Ministry of Justice (MOJ)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):               1999      2000      2001
Annual                 0.30        1.00    1.20
Cumulative                 0.30       1.30    2.50
Project implementation period:  October 1, 1999 - September 30, 2001
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1999                   Expected closing date: March 31, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objectives of the project are to assist the Government of the Republic of Yemen in piloting a
program of judicial training to assess its potential to enhance the effectiveness of the judiciary, and to
enhance the capabilities of MOLPA to prepare and advise on business and economic legislation. A long
term objective -to be attained in the context of a possible follow-on project developed out of knowledge
gained through the proposed project- is the e:fficient and effective resolution of disputes within and
outside of the court system.
The degree to which these objectives are achieved will be based mainly on the following indicators:
improved assessment by the Supreme Court Judges, the Judicial Inspection Authority, the Chamber of
Commerce, and the banker and lawyer communities of the judiciary's ability to discharge its functions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 19073-YEM
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 25, 1999
A main objective of the CAS is to support structural reforms to create an enabling environment for
private sector investment and employment. The CAS also includes strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework to improve the investment climate for provision of infrastructure by the private sector as an
objective. The proposed project is fully consistent with the objectives of the CAS, as the legal and
judicial reforms supported by the project are designed to complement the structural reforms undertaken
in Yemen over the last few years and to further strengthen the environment for private sector
development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The legal and judicial framework in Yemen is still in a state of transition, following the 1990 unification
of North and South Yemen, each of which had different legal regimes. While North Yemen's legal
system drew heavily on legal traditions of the Ottoman system, South Yemen's system had a distinct
common law influence resulting from decades of British mandate. The Reunification Constitution of the
Republic of Yemen (approved by referendum in 1991) espoused the principle of independence of the
judiciary. The judicial system of North Yemen has become increasingly influential in the southern part of
the country since the end of the civil war in 1994.
Yemen has several areas with potential for atlracting private-sector investment, particularly the Aden
port and free zone. In addition, the Government. passed an investment law in 1991 and is implementing a
privatization and public enterprise reform program, all of which is expected to provide opportunities for
direct investment. In spite of this potential, the country has received very little investment over the past
several years (with the exception of the petroleum sector). Although there are several contributing
factors, two of the rnain reasons are the perceived weaknesses of the judicial system and the chaotic state
of land registration. Other impediments to foreign investment include the inadequacy of certain laws to
support the growth of a private sector, the lack of basic information from the Government about the legal
framework for business activity and business contacts, and the rudimentary state of the financial sector
and the limited range of financial services. A report by FIAS, dated June 1997, confirms these findings.
The assistance envisioned under the project, especially through the studies to be prepared, would
enhance IDA's understanding of the ills afflicting the legal and judicial sector by providing a clear
analysis of the issues relating to the administration of courts, the execution of judgments, the adequacy of
the legal framework to spur private sector development and the adequacy of the existing land titling and



Page 3
registration systems. Consequently, should the project be successfully implemented, IDA would be in -a
position to rapidly expand its scope of assistance in the above-mentioned areas. This learning aspect of
the project is complemented by pilot initiatives to test possible changes to the judicial education system
and to enhance the operation of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. Lessons learned through these
pilot interventions would lay the foundation for the design of a follow-on intervention in any of the areas
addressed under the project.
Judicial System
The constitution of the Republic of Yemen, which was promulgated in 1994, espouses the principle of
separation of powers. Accordingly, the judicial branch is autonomous both financially and
administratively. The court system consists of a plethora of district courts (also called courts of first
instance) which deal with disputes of all types (civil, commercial, criminal, family and administrative).
District court decisions may be appealed before the appeal court. There is at least one such court in every
governorate of the country. There are five commercial courts at the district level in each of Sana'a, Aden,
Taiz, Hodeida and Hadramawt. The Supreme Court is the highest judicial authority.
Studies and opinion surveys in Yemen and among foreign investors reveal that the reform of the judicial
system is one of the most important issues facing the country. Regardless of the nature of the
adjudication (land ownership, commercial transactions, asset recovery, or a simple recourse to the court
system to recover a rightful claim), the length of time required to secure a judgment, the quality of the
judgment rendered, and the ability (or willingness) of the authorities to enforce it are almost without
exception in doubt.
The main problems currently facing the Yemeni judiciary may be summarized as follows: (i) poor legal
and administrative performance of the judiciary and administrative personnel due to lack of motivation
and/or lack of requisite education and skills; (ii) absence of proper administrative systems (file keeping,
registration of contracts, regulation of fees, etc.); (iii) dilapidated court buildings; and, above all (iv) a
lack of probity at all levels.
The current Minister of Justice is committed to reforming the judiciary, an effort he initiated in the early
1980s when he held the same governmental portfolio. Under his stewardship, a strategy for legal and
judicial reform was put in place and endorsed by the Council of Ministers on October 12, 1997 (the
Strategy). The Strategy calls for, inter alia, an increase in judicial independence, an emphasis on probity
and integrity of the judicial body, an enhanced role for judicial oversight bodies such as the Supreme
Judiciary Council and the Judicial Inspection Board, improved court facilities, improved court
administration, and a training program for judges.
Legal Framework
While lack of private investment is certainly due in part to the weak judiciary, the Yemeni legal
framework is far from ideal. Although many new laws were enacted following the unification of Yemen
covering, among others, commerce, civil procedures, labor and arbitration, most may not be adequate to
support a market-based economy. Furthermore, there are several economic and business areas where no
legislation exists, or where existing legislation is particularly inadequate. These areas include the
financial sector (secured transactions and real and personal property registers), insolvency, bankruptcy,
fisheries, chambers of commerce and labor.
New legislation will be required as part of the development of a workable legal system. The Government
is already tackling several under-served areas such as privatization and banking regulations. However,
the development of a modem framework could be undermined by several deficiencies. Frequently, draft
legislation is prepared by sector ministries without the benefit of participation from public and private



Page 4
stakeholders or the best practice of other countries, both within and outside the region. The lack of
requisite skills in the Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs (MOLPA), which is responsible for
reviewing all Government-sponsored legislation prior to its submission to Parliament, is a serious
obstacle to putting in place modern investor-friendly legislation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project anrd strategic choices:
The long-term objective of the Government is to improve the environment for private-sector investment,
a goal that requires interventions ranging from the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises, to
improvements in infrastructure, to improvements in public safety. The Government recognizes that these
reforms will have to be complemented by improvements in the judicial and legal systems, and has asked
the assistance of IDA.
The Strategy and the Government's demonstrated willingness to implement it, albeit in phases, forn the
basis for proceeding with legal and judicial reform. While the desired goal is clear, the solution is not
and there are many features of the Strategy which need to be tried and tested before they can be
implemented more broadly.
LIL Rationale. The complexity of, and interconnection among, the elements of the Strategy, coupled
with the lack of previous IDA involvement in the judicial and legal sector in Yemen, call for a cautious
and strategic approach aimed at: (i) responding to some of the more immediate needs in the sector while
simultaneously (ii) investigating further the overall needs of the sector and assessing the Government's
implementation capacity and willingness to carry out meaningful reforms. In light of the above, the
proposed project will focus on immediate improvements to judicial skills, assess the effect of
interventions on the judiciary and on the public's perception of the judiciary, and assess and strengthen
the legal capabilities within MOLPA. The strategy calls for a learning and innovation credit, which, if
successful, would pave the way for a follow-on project by providing infornation for the design of more
comprehensive interventions and/or extending successful pilot interventions to other geographic regions
of the country. Similarly, a future project would apply lessons learned about the overall sector needs and
the Government's willingness and ability to formulate new interventions on a larger scale. The strategic
interventions piloted under the project are achievable in the medium-term.
In light of the above, the Government and IDA 'have agreed to a phased strategy to build-up experience
on particular elements of the Strategy and sequence the implementation of particular actions, especially
when proven results demonstrate the reform's effectiveness. This phased approach should allow for the
appropriate degree of learning and innovation that such a program needs.
Strategic choices made in designing this project reflect important lessons leamed by IDA in the legal and
judicial sector during the last decade. The first choice was to separate judicial training from other aspects
of the Strategy. This choice was based on the consideration that judicial education is a fundamental
ingredient of any judicial reform effort and a preliminary pre-requisite for the success of any judicial
reform program, irrespective of strategy and content. The second consideration relates to the market-
friendly direction that the Yemeni legal framework is expected to take and the ensuing need that the
judiciary be equipped to deal with modern notions of business and financial law by receiving adequate
training in those very areas. Enhancing the judges' ability to understand and apply the law to complex
commercial law cases is a basic requirement for reform. Thus, trying and testing these Developments is a
mandatory first step toward the ultimate objective of introducing broad-ranging legal and judicial
reforms.
The second strategic choice was to finance the training of arbitrators, in alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms (ADR). Given the institutional weakness of the court system and its lack of appeal to the
litigant community, ADR would afford litigants an alternative avenue. The ADR sub-component was



Page 5
selected over larger, more traditional, judicial reform components such as the strengthening of cour-t
administration capabilities, the computerization of the judiciary and the construction of new courthouses
for its inherent potential to bring about efficient and effective resolution of disputes outside the court
system. Testing the acceptance of ADR by the litigant community would deepen the Government and
IDA's understanding of the court system's shortcomings (as perceived by the litigant community) and
would shed light on the reforms to be sought under a follow-on project.
Another strategic choice was the financing of the preparation of a baseline study for a public awareness
campaign. The learning to be acquired from the results of said study would provide a road map to reach
out to the population and convey a suitable message on the role of law and the judiciary in modern
society. The results of the baseline study would provide an important building block in the process of
implementing the Strategy.
The above notwithstanding, should the project not achieve its intended objectives, in whole or in part,
IDA would not rule out a restructuring of one or more components to better respond to the needs in place.
An early exit from the project ought not to be disregarded, should the Government be unwilling to pursue
reform. The novelty of the activities to be financed requires close project supervision and a permanent
presence in the field. Such presence will be provided by the Resident Mission which will assist in
supervising the implementation of the project and will coordinate at all times with headquarters. The
mid-term review would reveal the extent to which project implementation has progressed relative to
established benchmarks and would constitute, together with regular supervision missions, the tools to
monitor project implementation and the viability of the interventions financed thereunder.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Componenl.              Category      Cost mIcl.    % of     IDA-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    IDA-
(US$M _              (US$M)   financing
Judicial Development.          Institution          2.19      74.6       1.87       63.6
*  Training of judges and        Building
arbitrators
* Diagnostic Assessments
Legal Development                Policy,            0.63     21.5       0.54       18.4
*  Assistance to MCOLPA         Institution
*  Diagnostic Assessments        Building
Public Awareness Campaign       Program             0.11       3.9       0.10        3.4
Management,
Policy
Total             2.94     100.0       2.50       85.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
While the learning aspect of the project tends to limit the scope of policy interventions, the project would
nevertheless commence the process of putting in place a viable alternative to the court system (through
the training of arbitrators in alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, which is part of the Judicial
Development component) and, concurrently, comnmence the process of increasing judicial efficiency. The
diagnostic assessment of the legal framework and capacity building component of the project would pave
the way for a more hospitable environment for private sector activity.
On the institutional side, the project would strengthen the capabilities of sitting judges and other court
employees, together with those of Government lawyers responsible for drafting new legislation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The immediate benefits of the proposed project, would be: (i) a judiciary better trained in current laws,
and arbitrators trained in methods of alternative dispute resolution (about 65% of sitting judges would be
trained under the project); (ii) a thorough understanding of the judiciary's needs in terms of court
administration and improved judgement execution; (iii) stronger legal drafting capabilities in MOLPA;
and (iv) a better understanding of public dissatisfaction with the judicial and legal systems.
Indirectly, and in the longer term, the benefit of this project and any follow-on projects may include: (i)
relief of pressure orn the judicial system through diversion of disputes to an alternative dispute resolution
mechanism; (ii) a more efficient court system; and (iii) a better legal framework for foreign and domestic
investment.
The proposed project's target population is the judiciary, judicial support staff, litigants, private
investors, and legal drafters in MOLPA.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be carried out over a two-year period and will be implemented by the Ministry of
Justice (MOJ) and MdOLPA. MOJ will implement the Judicial Development component, while MOLPA



Page 7
will implement the Legal Development and Public Awareness Campaign components.  Project
implementation will take place under the auspices of a steering committee composed of the Minister of
Justice, the Minister of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, the Chief Justice, and the Chief of Judicial
Inspection. Membership of the steering committee may be expanded to include representatives of other
ministries to ensure project ownership at the widest possible governmental level. The steering committee
would function as a policy and oversight group as well.
5. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
Project's funds management including the proceeds of the Credit and Government counterpart
funds will be undertaken by the two implementing Ministries, MOJ and MOLPA, through their
respective financial and accounting departments in accordance with the Government budget-based
accounting systems. These systems, which provide adequate basis for the management of the project's
funds, have certain shortcomings regarding accounting and reporting for project management purposes.
Therefore, they will be supplemented, for the purposes of the project, by project-specific procedures
covering the project budget; management of the project's Special Accounts, bank accounts and assets;
internal audit; procurement and contract management, project accounting; financial reporting and
external auditing. These procedures will be documented in a Project Financial Management Manual
(PFMM), which is being prepared by the respective Ministries with the help of consultants and will be
completed prior to credit effectiveness.
MOJ and MOLPA will each appoint a financial officer, who will, jointly with the component
manager at the respective ministry, coordinate all project activities, transactions and expenditures with
the concerned departments of the ministry in accordance with PFMM procedures. They will also be
responsible for regular management and financial reporting on project activities to the Steering
Committee and IDA, including the project's annual financial statements. While the Government will not
use PMR-based disbursement under the project, quarterly project management reports (PMR) will be
submitted to IDA regularly within 45 days after the close of each quarter. The PMR formats will be
agreed with the implementing ministries by project launch, at the latest, and will be part of the PFMM;
the design of the accounting system and chart of accounts take into account the PMR requirements.
The project's annual financial statements, including summaries of the Special Accounts activities
and of SOE-based disbursements, will be audited by independent, private auditors acceptable to IDA, in
accordance with international auditing standards. Auditors will be appointed for the duration of the
project on the basis of terms of reference --to be agreed with IDA-- prior to credit effectiveness. Their
terms of reference will require that they provide annually a management letter in connection with the
project financial management procedures; the first such letter will be made available to IDA prior to
IDA's transfer of the initial deposits to the Special Accounts. Annual audited financial statements and
audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six (6) months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year. The cost of the audit is incremental and will be financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
The establishment of a suitable financial management system (which consists of the completion of the
PFMM, the appointment of the two component managers and financial officers, and the external
auditors) constitute a condition of credit effectiveness. A plan of action for undertaking the above
measures has been agreed with the Government and the two implementing ministries. Details regarding
the project financial management arrangements, disbursements and the action plan may be found in
Annex 6.



Page 8
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Learning and Innovation Credit vs. Other Instruments: Several alternatives were considered during the
identification and preparation of the proposed project, including (i) a structural adjustment credit that
would support comprehensive institutional reforms within the judicial and legal sectors; and (ii) a full-
scale technical assistance project that would undertake, country-wide, training and education programs,
studies, and implementation of action plans. A learning and innovation credit was deemed to be the
preferred alternative for the following reasons: (i) IDA's limited knowledge of the legal and judicial
sectors, which calls for a cautious approach premised on limited interventions in several areas; (ii) the
weakness of the Government's implementation capabilities, which need to be built up in preparation for a
larger program; (iii) the need to investigate the potential of alternative dispute resolution as a substitute
for a judiciary with a poor track record; and (iv) the acknowledgement that the project should be a first
phase of long-term involvement in the sector that will include investment and policy dialogue. It was also
felt that a learning and innovation credit would better assist MOJ and MOLPA to assess and overcome
likely resistance to change.
Project Design: Inclusion in the project of a comrponent to assist in capacity building of the special loan
recovery courts (established as part of the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program to assist in loan recovery) would have been a logical choice.
However, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has included such assistance as part of a
technical assistance project. IDA intends to remain in close contact with UNDP, as well as with other
donors involved in the legal sector, in order to facilitate collaboration, reduce duplication, and learn from
their experience.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and-
planned).
Sector issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Forrn 590)
Ratings
.(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Stabilization and structural reform, private   Economic Recovery Credit  S              S
sector development and facilitation of  (completed)
foreign exchange to foster economic
growth.
Financial sector strengthening and reform;   Financial Sector         U                 S
strengthening of banking supervision;  Adjustment Credit (on-
accounting and auditing standardization.    going)
Privatization of public enterprises    Privatization Support         Under            Under
Technical Assistance       Preparation      Preparation
Project
Public sector management               Public Sector Management        S                S
Adjustment Credit (on-
going)
Civil service reform; public sector    Civil Service                 Under            Under
restructuring                          Modernization Project      Preparation      Preparation
(planned)
Other Development agencies
Structural adjustment (IMF)            Enhanced Structural           N/A              N/A
Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) (on-going)
Privatization support (UNDP)           Support Program to            N/A               N/A
Privatization (planned)
Economic and financial management      Strengthening Economic        N/A               N/A
(UNDP)                                 and Financial Management
(planned
Governance and institutional reform    Governance Capacity and       N/A               N/A
(UNDP)                                 Institutional Reform
(planned)
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project will be the first to focus on judicial and legal issues and as such, very little
experience on this topic has been gained by any donors. There have been, however, several legal and
judicial reform initiatives in countries such as Venezuela, Bolivia, China, Ecuador, and the Russian
Federation. The lessons learned from these projects have underscored the importance of ownership and
commitment at the highest level of government and of counterpart commitment. Experience indicates
that local stakeholders need to be involved at the outset, both in studying the legal system and developing
proposals for change.
Based on case studies of the judicial reform efforts funded by USAID and the Ford and Asia Foundations
in Argentina, Colombia, Honduras, the Philippines, STi Lanka, and Uruguay, it is clear that a high degree



Page 10
of support for judicial reform by the nation's political leadership is crucial. Absent a high level of
support from MOJ, other senior executive branch officials, legislators and judges, judicial reform is
unlikely to succeed. Reviewing USAID-sponso:red reforms in Latin America during the 1980s, the U.S.
General Accounting Office (GAO  1993) concluded that providing computers, training and other
technical assistance to the judiciary in countries where a strong commitment to reform was lacking had
not been productive.
Incremental approach: Legal and judicial reform is a long-term and gradual undertaking, hence an
approach that is incremental by nature provides the best conditions for achieving sought after results.
Pilot projects provicle a testing ground for reforrns and allow opportunities for modification, building on
successes and abandoning reforms that do not take root.
Other lessons: IDA's experience on other projects generally suggests that the following are prerequisites
for the success of a project: (i) sound implementation arrangements that are fully agreed to by all
counterparts; (ii) establishment of clear priorities among the various reform objectives; and (iii)
avoidance of over-ambitious and unattainable goals. The project takes these points into consideration by
(i) having adequately involved judicial and the legislative counterparts in project preparation; (ii)
focusing on small pilot interventions; and (iii) seeking experienced help in the implementation
arrangements.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The endorsement by the Council of Ministers of the Strategy is a clear indication of ownership of the
project on the part of the Government. The Strategy contemplates a wide array of reforms including
strengthening of the Supreme Judicial Institute, training of sitting judges in various areas of the law,
rehabilitation of courthouses and computerization of courts, modernization of the legal framework and
offering of awareness programs to the public on the rule of law and the role of the judiciary in society. In
addition, as part of the judicial workshop that was held in Sana'a in December 1997, consensus was
reached among mermbers of the judiciary regardiing the priorities for judicial reform. Selected priorities
are included in the proposed project. The Ministers of Justice and Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, both
of whom attended the workshop, voiced their unqualified support for the objectives of the project.
In addition, MOLPA has compiled all the legislation in force in both North and South Yemen prior to
unification, as well as the legislation in effect after unification, and has established a legal reform center,
as steps toward legislative rationalization and modernization. These actions indicate a clear commitment
on the part of the Government to carry out their proposed program. The Government has effectively used
an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant (IDF 028869) to finance certain complementary activities
to the proposed project, further indicating a desire on the part of the Government to move forward with
the project.
Finally, the Government has specifically requested IDA's involvement in its legal and judicial reform
efforts in order to take advantage of its international experience and to reduce the risk of program failure.
5. Value added of ILDA support in this project:
IDA supports reformn and institution-building efforts in a number of sectors in Yemen through credits,
grants, and non-lending services. By building on this on-going support, IDA's assistance under the
project will help increase momentum and realize economies of scale in the reform program. In addition,
the fact that many IDA-supported projects in Yemen address aspects of private sector development, other
than judicial and legal reform, will allow IDA to comprehensively assess the effects of particular
reforms. IDA's support in this and other reforrm efforts can be catalytic in moving the Government



Page 11
toward making difficult decisions and in helping to unify donor support. IDA is also able to provide the
Government with impartial advice on the quality of actions/reforms being taken or considered.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis                             [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] No Economic Analysis
No economic analysis has been carried out for the proposed project given that it consists of technical
assistance activities.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
The budgetary impact of the project during implementation and in its operational phase is minimal.
3. Technical:
There are no technical issues that need to be addressed.
4. Institutional:
It is crucial that MOJ and MOLPA assign seasoned technical and financial professionals who would be
able to manage the project and monitor progress in its implementation with little need to turn to the
Ministers for anything other than periodic reporting and/or policy advice or approval.
S. Social:
Many of the problems in the judicial system find their roots in a society that continues to be divided
along regional, tribal and even family lines. Nonetheless, there is a growing awareness, albeit in urban
and business communities, of the need to reform the judiciary. In undertaking a reform effort, even on a
pilot level, public expectations of the role of the judiciary will need to be taken into account. The
baseline study for the public awareness campaign would address this issue by identifying public
expectations and developing strategies to inform the public of the impartial nature of successful judicial
systems.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category     []A   [ B    [x] C
As the project consists entirely of technical assistance for training and studies, there are no
environmental issues that need to be addressed.
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The views and opinions of members of the judiciary and the business and donor communities were taken
into consideration in designing the different components of the project.  The alternative dispute
resolution program in particular responds to the desire of the business community to have an alternate
means for settling commercial disputes outside of the court system. The participatory process will
continue throughout the project through the public awareness campaign component and the opinion
surveys to be carried out to gauge the success of some of the activities financed under the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Consultations took place with academics and a large number of practicing attorneys concerning the
overall thrust of the project. Their views on what constitutes immediate reform priorities were taken into



Page 12
account in designing the project. The preparation of the project took into consideration the widespread
public debate on the need for judicial reform in the country. This took the form of press articles, speeches
by Government officials and seminars. In addition, there will be continued promotion of public
participation through the dissemination of the project evaluation process.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long-term sustainability of new economic, financial, and business law concepts and theories would
be promoted through the curriculum changes at the Supreme Judicial Institute, which would be taught to
all incoming judges. To promote the new concepts among a broad range of sitting judges, the judicial
education and alternative dispute resolution programs are designed to ensure that those who have been
trained would transfer their acquired skills and know-how to their colleagues. It is the intention of the
project to institutionalize a system of continuing education and the dissemination of information that will
ensure the long-term sustainability of the reforms.
An additional key issue for the sustainability of the interventions contemplated under the project is the
willingness of the Government to allocate the necessary funds to cover incremental recurrent costs.
Adequate remuneration of judges is a serious issue, given current government budget constraints, which
would be tackled under the Civil Service Reform Project, currently under preparation by IDA. Budgetary
support beyond the implementation stage of the project is consistent with the recommendations of IDA's
Public Expenditure Review.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fiurth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Government commnitment to supporting an objective   H        Training supported by the project is
and independent judiciary may falter due to                   designed to instill greater governmental
budgetary constraints, changes in high-level                  understanding at all levels of the
Ministerial staffing, or' pressure from entrenched           importance of an objective judiciary,
interests                                                     which should in turn generate
commitment to continuing reform;
furthermore, this risk will be offset by
strong support for the project and the
concepts it advocates at the highest
level of Government
Entrenched interests imay work to impede changes    H         Only Government commitment at the
that support greater openness and reform                      highest level is likely to overcome
possible interference from entrenched
interests; continued IDA and IMF
dialogue with the Govermment will help
mnitigate this risk
Overall Risk Rating j   H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Reform of the judicial system is complicated by the long-standing Yemeni tradition of tribal justice where
heads of tribes/families mediate disputes of all kinds, including commercial ones. The tribal justice
system, which allows litigants to by-pass the unreliable court system, is said to function efficiently even
though many tribal mediators are reported to have little or no legal background. While the reforms
proposed in this project do not involve the traditional justice system, it is anticipated, over the long run,
that greater confidence in the state judicial system would lessen the perceived need for the traditional
system.
G. Main Credit Conditions
* IDA will review the Government's training program under the Judicial Development component of
the project on a yearly basis, such program to be implemented taking IDA's comments into account.
* The Government will take all action necessary on its part to ensure that the Supreme Judicial Institute
will offer a curriculum with an increased number of courses in business, economic and financial law
not later than June 30, 2001.
* The establishment by each of MOJ and MOLPA of a suitable financial management system is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1. Compliance with IDA Policies
This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
T             r: Hadi Abushakra
Sector Director: Wafik Grais
Country Director: Inder Sud



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Republic of Yemen: Legal and Judicial Development Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
Support structural reforms to                             CAS preparation and           Regional economic
create an enabling environment                            monitoring discussions        growth and private-sector
for private sector investment                                                           response to the enabling
and employment                                                                          environment
Project Development                                                                     (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Pilot a program ofjudicial   Improved assessment by the   Opinion surveys within the    Broad support within the
training to assess its potential    Supreme Court judges, the  business and litigant    Government and civil
to enhance the effectiveness of  Judicial Inspection Authority,   communities on the    society for judicial reform
the judiciary, and to upgrade    the chamber of commerce, and  performance of the judiciary
the capabilities of MOLPA to   the banker and lawyer       and the success of arbitration
prepare and advise on business  communities of the judiciary's  as alternative means to settle
and economic legislation     capability to discharge its   disputes
functions and the usefulness of
arbitration
Outputs:                                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
1.1 A cadre of trained judges   Number of cases disposed of    Project supervision reports  Continued commitment by
by the commercial court judges                            the Government
(using previous year's                                    (translated by action on
statistics)                                               the ground) to pursue
judicial reform
1.2 A revised curriculum at    Number of courses developed   Project supervision reports
the Supreme Judicial Institute,  as part of the revised
and faculty trained in the   curriculum
revised curriculum
1.3 A cadre of arbitrators   Number of cases referred to  Project supervision reports
trained in alternative dispute    arbitration
resolution mechanisms
1.4 Diagnostic assessment and  Assessment completed;      Project supervision reports
action plan to improve court    identification of areas in need
administration and judgement   of reform
execution
1.5 Courthouse building plans   Plans completed; identification  Project supervision reports
of courthouses to be built
2.1 A baseline study for an  Identification of the audience,   Project supervision reports
awareness campaign on the    medium and message to be
role of law and the judiciary in  delivered under the campaign
society



3.1 A cadre of MOLPA staff   Number of staff trained      Project supervision reports
trained in issues of business,                                                          Continued commitment by
financial, and commercial law                                                           the Govemment
(translated by actions on
3.2 Diagnostic assessment and  Assessment completed;      Project supervision reports  the ground) to a legal and
reform action plan to        identification of areas in need                            regulatory framework
modernize the legal frEmework  of reform                                                hospitable to private
governing business, economic,                                                           sector growth and foreign
and financial activities                                                                investment
3.3 Diagnostic assessrment and  Assessment completed;
reform action plan to        identification of areas in need
modernize the legal framework  of reform
governing land tenure and
titling
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each                                   (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for   component)
project description)
1. Judicial Development      US$ 2.19 million             Mid-term review               Willingness of judges,
Component                                                                               arbitrators and mediators
to learn from the training
and courses to be offered
US$ 0.63 million                                          Risk: resistance by sitting
2. Legal Developmenm                                                                   judges to the reform
Component                                                                               efforts; weak institutional
*  Resident legal advisor                                                            capacity to carry out the
*  Diagnostic assessments  US$ 0.11 million                                          project
3. Public Awareness
Campaign Component



Annex 2
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Detailed Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Government of the Republic of Yemen in piloting a
program of judicial training to assess its potential to enhance the effectiveness of the judiciary, and to
upgrade the capabilities of MOLPA to prepare and advise on business and economic legislation.
The Project consists of the following components:
Part A: Judicial Development- US$2.19 million (total cost of component)
1.Carrying out a training program to enhance the effectiveness and competence of the judiciary
through, inter alia: (i) the development and carrying out of refresher courses for sitting judges in the area
of business and commercial law; (ii) the development of a modem judicial education curriculum at the
Supreme Judicial Institute; and (iii) the training ofjudicial educators at the Supreme Judicial Institute.
2.Carrying out a training program to strengthen the capabilities and upgrade the skills of local
arbitrators in alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
3. Carrying out diagnostic assessments of court administration and judgment execution regulations
and practices, each such assessment to recommend reform programs and include action plans to carry out
said programs.
4. Preparation of architectural plans to construct and rehabilitatecourthouses countrywide.
5. Preparation of diagnostic and other studies and training programs, and the carrying out of such
other activities as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of Part A of the Project.
Part B: Legal Development - US$0.63 million (total cost of component)
1. Carrying out a program to strengthen the capabilities of MOLPA in preparing, reviewing and
advising on business, financial and economic legislation, and in understanding international business
transactions.
2. Carrying out a diagnostic assessment of the legal framework governing business, economic and
financial activities, exclusive of the laws governing land tenure, transfer, titling and registration, such
assessment to recommend a reform program and include an action plan to implement the recommended
reform.
3.Carrying out a diagnostic assessment of the legal framework governing land tenure, transfer,
titling and registration, such assessment to recommend a reform program and include an action plan to
implement the recommended reform.
4. Preparation of diagnostic and other studies and training programs, and the carrying out of such
other activities as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of Part B of the Project.



Part C: Public Awareness Campaign - US$0.1 1 million (total cost of component)
Carrying out a baseline study for an awareness campaign on the role of law and the judiciary in
society.



Annex 3
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$ Million)
%      % Total
(Rials Million)             (USS Million)        Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Judicial Development Component
Judicial Training                                      101.3   147.9   249.2   0.724    1.057    1.780            59      68
Assessments and Studies                                  9.9    15.1    24.9   0.070    0.108    0.178           60        7
Subtotal Judicial Development Component                  111.2   163.0   274.2   0.794    1.164    1.958           59       75
B. Legal Development Component
Assistance to MOLPA /a                                  20.7    26.3    47.0   0.148    0.188    0.335            56      13
Legal Framework Assessment and Development              12.5    19.1    31.6   0.089    0.137    0.226           60         9
Subtotal Legal Development Component                      33.2    45.4    78.6   0.237    0.324    0.561           58       21
C. Public Awareness Campaign                               5.6      8.6    14.2   0.040    0.062    0.102          60        4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       150.0   217.0   367.0   1.071    1.550    2.621           59      100
Physical Contingencies                                   8.0    11.3    19.3   0.057    0.081    0.138            59        5
Price Contingencies                                     14.9    10.4    25.4   0.107    0.075    0.181           41         7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        172.9   238.8   411.7   1.235    1.706    2.941           58      112
\a MOLPA - Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs



Annex 4
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Economic Analysis
Not applicable for this project.



Annex 5
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June
(US$, million and base year 1999)
Implementation Period
99/00   00/01    Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs                                       1.24     1.70    2.94
Recurrent Costs                                        0.00    0.00     0.00
Total                                               1.24     1.70    2.94
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                                               85.0    85.0    85.0
Co-financiers
Government
Central                                             15.0    15.0    15.0
Local                                                -                0.0
Total                                              100.0   100.0   100.0



Annex 6
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1.      Procurement of goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the following:
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; and Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank/IDA borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Government
of Yemen has opted for direct ministry implementation, rather than establishing a project
implementation unit. To that end, each of MOJ and MOLPA will be responsible for the procurement
process in connection with its part of the project. Accordingly, each of MOJ and MOLPA has appointed
two qualified professionals to act, respectively, as component manager and financial officer.
Goods
2.       For contracts for the provision of office technology, furniture, equipment, vehicles and other
items to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract will be awarded through National
Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) up to an aggregated amount of US$220,000. For contracts of
goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of
US$160,000 equivalent will be awarded through National Shopping procedures. Where the desired
goods are available from more than one source in Yemen at competitive prices, at least three quotations
should be invited.
Services
3.       For all contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent Quality and Cost based
selection procedures will be used. For contracts to cost less than US$50,000 either Quality based
selection procedures (QBS) or Single Source procedures (SS) will be used. For individual consultants
with a contract value of US$15,000 or less will be hired under regulations for Hiring Individuals
Consultants (para 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines).
Review Procedures
4.       All contracts for goods costing more than US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's
prior review. Likewise for contracts for the provision services by consulting firms costing more than
US 100,000 equivalent and contracts for the provision services by individual consultants costing more
than US50,000 equivalent. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review.



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Procurement Arrangements           International    National
(US$ Million)                       Competitive   Competitive    Other
Bidding       Bidding                 N.B.F.      Total
A. Goods                                      -          0.36       0.04           -        0.40
-        (0.30)     (0.04)                  (0.34)
B. Services
National and International                  -              -       2.18          -        2.18
Technical Assistance                                 -      (1.75)                 (1.75)
Assessment Studies and Action Plans         -                     0.37           -        0.33
(0.31)                 (0.31)
Total                                          -          0.36       2.59          -         2.94
-        (0.30)     (2.20)          -       (2.50)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
No ICB (International Competitive Bidding) in this project.



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                Contract Value               Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)                   Method                  Prior Review
1. Goods
Office          (i) For all contracts equal or less than    NS         Post review only
Equipment       US$30,000, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$160,000 equivalent
(ii) For all contracts estimated to cost   NCB         First two contracts regardless of value
more than US$30,000, up to an aggregate                and selective post review
not exceeding US$220,000
(iii) For all contracts estimated to cost   ICB        Prior review
more than US$200,000
2. Services
(a) Training      For all contracts estimated to cost more   QCBS.        Prior review
than $50,000                          (Short-List
(Regular Government procedures for     Comprising
travel and per diem allowance for      Domestic Firms
individuals and incidental expenses    only applies for
associated with the training being     contracts  less
conducted).                           than
US$200,000).
(b) Social         Public awareness campaign                  QCBS        Prior review
Mobilization
(c) International/    For alll contracts estimated to cost more  QCBS.    Same prior review limits as indicated in
National TA       than $50,000                          (Short-List       paragraph 3(b)(2) above
Comprising
Domestic Firms
only applies for
contracts less than
US$200,000).
For all contracts estimated to cost the  Either QBS or  Post review only
equivalent of US$50,000 or less per  Single Source
contract                             Selection
(3) Individual     US$15,000 or less per contract       Hiring of         Post review only
Consultants                                          Individual
Consultants -
(applies to
individual
consultants for
institutional
strengthening
procured in
accordance with
paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the
Consultant
Guidelines.)



Disbursement
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (US$ Million)
MOJ          MOLPA
Expenditure Category      Amount in      Amount in            IDA Financing Percentage*
US$ million   US$ rmillion
1. Goods                       0.18           0.14     100% of all foreign expenditures, 100% of all local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 85% of local
expenditures for items procured locally
2. Consultants' Services       0.30           0.30     100% of all expenditures
3. Training                    1.40           0.18     100% of all expenditures
1.88          0.622
Total                                2.50
*Financing of all expenditures net of taxes and duties.
Financial Management Arrangements: Management of the project funds including the proceeds of the
credit and counterpart funds will be ensured by the two implementing Ministries, MOJ and MOLPA, through
their respective financial and accounting departments in accordance with the Government budget-based
accounting system.
The system allows the ministries, including MOJ and MOLPA, to commit expenditures and effect
payments on the basis of the annual budget allocated to them through the national budgeting process.
Ministries keep records of their budget allocations on the basis of the line items prescribed in the
budget law. Commitments and payments follow prescribed procedures in the Budget Law of 1991,
which ensure, among other things, that commitments are within the authorized budget: all budgetary
commitments are to be cleared and authorized by the Ministers, Financial Manager of MOJ, Director
General, Financial and Administration of MOLPA, and that they are fully recorded as prescribed by
the above regulations. Payments are issued following specific procedures ensuring segregation of
duties, proper verification and procedures for their accounting and filing. Payment orders and checks
are issued by the Financial Department in each respective Ministry. For any payment order that is
not within the budget allocation approved by the Ministry of Finance, the approval of the Ministry
Finance is required. Ministries report regularly (on a monthly basis) to the Ministry of Finance on
the status of their budget commitments and payments, which follow the budget line items.
Procedures are in place for closing and reconciliation of accounts (monthly reconciliation is also
done against Central Bank statements) with the Ministry of Finance, approval of the latter ministry
before consolidation at the national level.
Each of the two implementing ministries, MOJ and MOPLA, has a finance department responsible for
undertaking the above functions. The MOJ finance department is headed by a Financial Manager and the
MOLPA finance department is headed by the Director General, Financial and Administration, Legal Affairs
Department. The consolidated MOJ-MOLPA finance department would be comprised of about 45-55 staff.
For MOJ, the General Manager (GM) Finance reports to the Deputy Minister. Under the GM-Finance are
three Directors, Accounting, Purchasing and Revenues. The Accounting Director has five units under him:



Intemal Audit, Budgeting, Records, Expenditures and Filing. There are only four accountants in this area.
The Purchasing Director is in charge of Stores, Purchasing, and Asset Administration. The Revenues
Director is in charge of revenue supervision and collection follow-ups.
The Director General (DG) Financial and Administration Department of MOLPA, has four divisions under
his supervision: Personmel, Purchasing, Accounts and the Secretariat. There are three units under the
Accounts division: the Recording unit, the Revenues unit and the :Internal Control unit. Wages and Salaries
are under the Personnel division while services and purchases are under the Purchasing division. MOLPA
was unable to provide an estimate of accountants in its Financial and Administration Department.
The budget-based accouLnting system is not adequately equipped to provide financial data that is needed for a
proper management of the project activities and progress. The existing reporting procedures emphasize
budget line items, with details relating to budget breakdown by chapter and category that correspond to
type/nature of expenditure, such as salaries, materials, etc. This applies to procedures concerning the
planning/budgeting of project funding and expenditures; the project-specific accounting details; regular
reporting and annual financial statements.
Given the above shortcomings, agreement has been reached with the two implementing ministries to put in
place simplified procedures aimed at complementing the present financial system for the purposes of the
project. These project-specific procedures deal with the project budget and accounting, including a project
chart of accounts, bookkeeping procedures and financial reporting details. The procedures will also include
the management of the project's Special Accounts, other bank accounts and assets of the project; internal
audit; procurement and contract management, and external auditing. These procedures will be documented
in a Project Financial Management Manual (PFMM), which is being prepared by the respective Ministries
with the help of consultants and will be completed prior to credit effectiveness.
To ensure sound financial management of the project, each of MOJ and MOLPA will appoint a financial
officer, who will, joinltly with the component manager at the respective ministry, coordinate all project
activities, transactions and expenditures with the concerned departments of the ministry in accordance with
PFMM procedures. They will also be responsible for regular management and financial reporting on project
activities to the Steering Committee and II)A, including the project's annual financial statements. Terms of
reference for both new positions will be agreed by the two implementing ministries and IDA.
The Government will not use PMR-based disbursement for the project; other disbursements methods will be
used instead as explained. However, quarterly project management reports (PMR) will be submitted to IDA
regularly within 45 days after the close of each quarter. Each such report will include: (a) a comparison of
budgeted and actual expenditures with an analysis of major variances, including sources and application of
funds by component, category of expenditure, and financing source; (b) comparison of projected and actual
physical parameters and unit costs for selected key items; (c) expenditures by disbursement category; and (d)
forecast expenditures for the next two quarters. The PMR formats will be agreed with the implementing
ministries by project launch, at the latest, and will be part of the PFMM; the design of the accounting system
and chart of accounts take into account the PMR requirements.
The Project's annual financial statements, including summaries of the Special Accounts activities and of
SOE-based disbursements, will be audited by independent, private auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance
with international auditing standards. Auditors will be appointed for the duration of the project on the basis
of terms of reference --to be agreed with IDA-- prior to credit effectiveness. The terms of reference will
require that the Ministries provide, on an annual basis, a management letter in connection with the project
financial management procedures; the first such letter will be made available to IDA prior to the transfer of
the initial deposits to the Special Accounts. Annual audited financial statements and audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within six (6) months after the end of the Government's fiscal year. The cost of the audit is
incremental and will be financed out of the proceeds of the credit. All tasks related to the appointment of
auditors, including thei:r terms of reference and selection process, and the discussion and follow up on their



annual reports, will take place under the auspices of the Steering Committee, which will function also as an
audit committee for the project.
The establishment of a suitable financial management system which consists of the completion of the
project's financial management manual, the appointment of the two project managers and financial officers
and the external auditors constitutes a condition of credit effectiveness. The following Plan of Action has
been agreed with MOJ and MOLPA.
Plan of Action.
Action                            BV          TarYet Date
Appointment of Project Coordinators         MOJ and MOPLA    June. 15, 1999
Appointment of Financial Officers           MOJ and MOPLA    June. 15, 1999
A. Draft TORs                               IDA                June 15, 1999
B. Proposal for Selection of Officers       MOJ and MOPLA    June 15, 1999
C. Selection of Officers                    MOJ and MOPLA    June 15, 1999
Manual for Project Financial Management
A. Draft TORs/Outline                       IDA                June 15, 1999
B. Completion                               MOJ and MOPLA    Nov.30, 1999
C. Review, Manual is operational            IDA; MOJ/MOPLA   Dec. 17, 1999
External Audit
A. Draft TORs and shortlist                 IDA; MOJ/MOPLA   June 15, 1999
B. Appointment of Auditor                   MOJ and MOPLA    Aug. 1, 1999
C. Management Letter (First Year)           Auditors/MOJ and    February 15,
MOPLA              2000
Completion of PMRs                          MOJ.MOPLA          September 2000



Annex 7
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                               Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$82,000            US$80,800
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
First IDA mission (identification)             06/01/1998      06/01/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    10/23/1998      10/23/1998
Negotiations                                   10/31 /1998     05/26/1999
Planned Date of E,ffectiveness                09/30/1999
Prepared by: MOJ and MOLPA
IDA staff who worked on the project included:
Narne                                   Specialty
Hadi Abushakra                            Team Leader
Katarina Mathemova                     Judicial Reform Specialist
Hans Korb                         Implementation Specialist
Charles Sterling                           Consultant



Annex 8
Legal and Judicial Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Republic of Yemen: Legal and Judicial Sector Reform Program (October 12, 1997)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Yemen, Republic of
Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Difference Between
expected
and actual
Project  Fiscal                                             Original Amount in US$ Millions    disbursements a/
ID     Year         Borrower          Purpose              IDA      Cancel.  Undisbursed   Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 90
Active Projects
5878     1990  Government of'Yemen  Power III                  15.50      0.00         3.71     2.68     0.00
5884     1990  Government of'Yemen  Tarim Water Supply         12.00      0.00         2.25     1.61     0.00
5806     1991  Governrnent of'Yemen  Multi-Mode Transport      35.80      0.00         5.83    -2.52      .46
5835     1991  Government of'Yemen  Secondary Teacher Tr.      19.40      0.00         .64       .89      .68
5892     1991  Ministry of Fisheries    Fisheries IV           13.20      0.00         5.89     6.01     0.00
5810     1992  Government of'Yemen  Nat.Agric.Sect.Mgmt        14.40      5.33         2.76     7.68      1.61
5836     1992  Government of Yemen  Land & Water Conserv       32.80      5.04        4.56      8.57     3.65
5904     1993  Government of'Yemen  Basic Education            19.70      0.00         7.75     7.41     1.94
5910     1993  Government of Yemen  Family Health              26.60      0.00        18.89    17.61     7.02
5'11    1994  Government of Yemen  Education Sector           33.00      0.00       25.85     17.90      .40
41267    1996  Government of Yemen  Transport Rehab.           37.00      0.00       28.42    23.60      0.00
43109    1996  Government of'Yemen  Public Works               25.00      0.00         3.92    -2.15     0.00
5912     1996  Government of Yemen  Voc. Training              24.30      0.00        17.92    10.89     0.00
41199    1997  Government of Yemen  Social Fund Devpt          30.00      0.00        17.00    -4.44     0.00
43367    1997  Government of Yemen  Taiz W.S. Pilot Project    10.20      0.00         5.89     6.02      .84
48522    1997  Government of Yemen  Flood Emergency            30.00      0.00        15.65     6.46      0.00
39171    1998  Government of Yemen  Seeds & Ag. Services       12.50      0.00        10.95     1.11     0.00
43101    1998  Government of Yemen  Financial Sec.AdJ.Cr       80.00      0.00        29.13    29.38     0.00
5902     1998  Ministry of Finance   S.Gov Agri Privatization  24.70      0.00        22.91     5.41     0.00
50530    1999  Government of Yemen  Sana'a Emerg. Power        54.00      0.00        51.81     2.77     0.00
5907     1999  Government of'Yemen  Sana'a Ws/Sanitation       25.00      0.00        25.00     0.00     0.00
60132    1999  Government of Yemen  Public Works II            50.00      0.00        48.24      .67     0.00
62837    1999  Government of Yemen  PSMAC                      50.00      0.00        48.51     0.00     0.00
Total                                                         675.10     10.37       403.48    147.56    16.60
Active Projects    Closed Projects   Total
Total Disbursed (IDA)                 250.63          862.88         1,113.51
of which has been repaid             0.00           72.86           72.86
Total now held by IDA                 664.73          755.03         1,419.76
Amount sold                             0.00            0.00            0 00
Of which repaid                        0.00           0.00             0.00
Total Undisbursed                     403.48            3.39          406.87
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



Yemen, Republic of
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                   Radfan                 3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex 10
Yemen, Rep. at a glance                                                                10/1198
M. Eat
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North      Low-
Yemen      Africa   Income      Development diamond
1997
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                       16.3       283      2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   270      2,060       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      4.4       583       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        3.3        2.3       2.1
Labor force ()                                       4.9       3.2        2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                              capita              /       enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below natbnal povetly line)   19          ..        ..
Urban population (% of total population)               35        57        28
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                        54        67        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              98         48        78
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)             30          ..       61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 52        71        71
Illiteracy (%/ of population age 15+)                  13        39        47
Gross pnimary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)   83         97        91             -     Yemen, Rep.
Male                                               113        102       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              45         91        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS billions)                            ..       ..        5.1       5.4
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                  ..       .      25.4       21.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              .        ..     40.4       45. 6
Gross domestic savings/GOP                     ..      ..       15.5      13.0
Gross national savings/C1P                    ..        .      23.3       25.0
Current account balance/GOF'                  ..       ..       -1.4       3.1     Domestc
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      ..        1.2       1.1     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      ..       64.8      61.6     Si
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..        2.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      .,    102.7
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    146.0
Indebtedness
197646  1917-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   .n3.7           4.4        5.4       5.                    Yeme, Rep.
GNP per capita                               -1.5    -7.8        1.6       2.5.                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..     8.5    -0.2         9.7       2.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMYW
1976    1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment(%l
(x of GDP)
Agriculture                                    -        *-      17.6      17.6   !  T
Industry                                                .      48.8       48.8 ! 2
Manufacturing                                ..      ..       11.4      11.4      10
Services                                       .        ..     33.6       33.6
Prvate consumption                            ..       ..      70.0       68.8   -1l1    92   93           95   9
General govemment consumption                  ..      ..       14.5      18.1                      D GDI   C  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       50.3      54.5   I
197646  1987-97      1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                    ..      4.8        1.7       2.2    40
Industry                                      ..      6.3        9.5       2.0
Manufacturing                                ..      0.9      10.5       2.0    20-
Services                                       ..     1.1        2.4      10.9
0
Private consumption                           ..      1.2        6.8       7.6       .3  94                     9    97
General govemment consumption                  ..     1.0        9.4      36.6
Gross domestic investment                      ..    11.9       24.1      -6.8   .20
Imports of goods and services                  ..     3.8      35.1       21.8                  Exporns    Im mports
Gross national product                        ..      2.0       -4.7       4.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestwc prices
(% change)                                                                            T
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      17.3       0.5    40
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..      39.4       3.4
Government finance                                                                           - .  1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 .        ..      17.5      32.4             92   93    94   96   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -6.6      -4.9                   GDP deflator    c  CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                         ..       ..      -7.9      -6.0                               ,
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..    2,218      2,292     3,000
Crude oil (govemment share)                    ..      ..       904     1,117
Crude oil (companies' share)                  ..       ..    1,025        890     2OD-1 ..
Manufactures                                           ..       161       161     2000
Total imports (cif)                                             2,571     2,678
Food                                           .        ..      906   800   00iu                                r
Fuel and energy                               ..        .       198       251
Capital goods                                 ..       ..        95        89        o
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..       119      111
Import price index (1995=100)                   .         .        76       67                5 Exports     W Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          ..       ..       156       165     _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..    2,409      2,484     20 T
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..    2,821      2,966
Resource balance                                ..       ..      -412     -482      10-
Net income                                      ..       ..      -841     -662       0
Netcurrenttransfers                             ..       ..    1,183      1,314                         94   95  96   97
Current account balance                         ..       ..       -70       170
2:0
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       338      200
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..      -269     -370      301
Memo:                                                                             I
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUS$)                 ..       ..     128.2    131.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          535    3,881      3,309     3,353
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0                     G120
IDA                                          38      407        893      934
Total debt service                              ..       ..        84                      F493    *:934
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                           0        5         15       16
Composition of net resource flows                                                            0
Official grants                             322      146        116        C. 121
Official creditors                           98      162        106                                               c: 121
Private creditors                            -1      129          0         ..        E: 1,139
Foreign direct investment                     0        6        100
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        .                                D 546
World Bank pmgram
Commitments                                   ..       ..       207      149      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                26       47         95       89      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0        1          9        10     C-IMF                         G - Short-termr
Net flows                                    26       45         86       79    __                           _
Interest payments                             0        4          6         7
Net transfers                                26       42         80       72
Development Economics                                                                                                 10/1/98



