Report No. PID6878
Project Name                     Yemen-Legal and Judicial (@)
Development
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Project ID                       YEPE57915
Borrower                         The Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and the
Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary
Affairs (MOLPA)
Date this PID revised            May 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 1998
Projected Board Date             June 1999
Background. Until their unification in 1990, North Yemen and South Yemen had
different legal regimes. While North Yemen's legal system drew heavily on
legal traditions of the Ottoman system, South Yemen's system had a distinct
common law influence resulting from decades of British mandate. The
Reunification Constitution of the Republic of Yemen (approved by referendum in
1991) established the principle of independence of the judiciary. Since the
civil war of 1994, the judicial system of North Yemen has become increasingly
influential in the southern part of the country.
Yemen has several areas of potential for foreign private-sector investment,
particularly the Aden port and free zone. In addition, the Government passed
an investment law in 1991 and is implementing a privatization and public
enterprise reform program, all of which is expected to provide opportunities
for foreign direct investment. In spite of this potential, the country has
received very little net foreign direct investment over the past several years
(with the exception of the petroleum sector). Although there are several
contributing factors, two of the main reasons are the perceived weaknesses of
the judicial system and the chaotic state of land registration. Other
impediments to foreign investment include the inadequacy of certain laws to
support the growth of a private sector, the lack of basic information from the
Government about the legal framework for business activity and business
contacts, and the rudimentary state of the financial sector and the limited
range of financial services. There is consensus in Yemen and among foreign
investors that the reform of the judicial system is one of the most important
issues facing the country.
The current Minister of Justice is committed to reforming the judiciary, an
effort he initiated in the early 1980s when he held the same governmental
portfolio. Under his stewardship, an extensive program of judicial reform was
put in place and endorsed by the Council of Ministers on October 12, 1997.
The Government's judicial reform program calls for, among other things, an
increase in judicial independence, an emphasis on probity and integrity of the
judicial body, improved court administration and a training program for
judges.
While lack of foreign direct investment is certainly due in part to the weak
judiciary, the Yemeni legal framework is far from ideal. Although new
business, economic and financial laws were enacted following the unification



of Yemen, most are deemed inadequate to support a market-based economy.
Furthermore, there are several economic and business areas where no
legislation exists, or where existing legislation is particularly inadequate.
New legislation is an essential condition for the development of a workable
legal system, and the Government is addressing several currently under-served
areas, however, experience suggests that development of a modern framework
could be undermined by several deficiencies. Frequently, draft legislation is
prepared within sector ministries without the benefit of participation from
public and private stakeholders or the best practice of other countries, both
within or without the region. The lack of requisite skills within the
Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs (MOLPA), which is responsible for
reviewing all Government-sponsored legislation prior to its submission to
Parliament, is a serious obstacle to putting in place modern investor-friendly
legislation.
Project Objectives. The objectives of the project are to assist the Government
of Yemen to (i) investigate the potential of judicial training to improve the
functioning of the court system; (ii) enhance the public's confidence in the
court system; and (iii) upgrade the capability of MOLPA to prepare and advise
on business and economic legislation.
Project Description. The project consists of three components: a judicial
reform component, a legal reform component and a public awareness campaign.
The judicial reform component consists of: (a) the carrying out of a training
program to enhance the competence of the judiciary through the carrying out of
refresher courses for all sitting commercial court judges and a significant
segment of the judiciary on topics of commercial and business law; (b) the
modernization of the curriculum for future judges at the Supreme Judicial
Institute; (c) the training of judicial educators at the Supreme Judicial
Institute; (d) the development and carrying out of training for arbitrators on
modern methods of alternative dispute resolution; (e) the carrying out of
diagnostic assessments on court administration and judgement execution and
practices; (f) the preparation of architectural plans to construct and
rehabilitate courthouses countrywide; and (g) the carrying out of such other
studies and assessments as may be needed to deepen the Government's
understanding of the issues affecting the functioning of the judiciary.
The legal reform component consists of (a) the provision of assistance to
MOLPA to strengthen its capacity to prepare, review and advise on business,
financial and economic legislation, and in understanding international
business transactions; (b) an assessment of the training needs within MOLPA
and the recruitment of experts to deliver the recommended training; (c) the
preparation of diagnostic assessments of the legal framework governing
business, economic and financial activities, and land and land registration
activities; and (d) the preparation of such other studies and assessments as
may be needed to deepen the Government's understanding of the issues affecting
the carrying out of commercial, business and economic activities.
The public awareness campaign component would finance a baseline study for an
awareness campaign on the rule of law and the role of the judiciary in
society. The study would identify messages to be delivered, the audience to be
targeted and appropriate media and delivery methodology.
- 2 -



Project Implementation. The judicial reform component of the project would be
managed by MOJ, and the legal reform and public awareness components of the
project would be managed by MOLPA, all under the auspices of a steering
committee consisting of representatives of MOJ, MOLPA. The steering committee
will be responsible for setting out the policy direction and pace of the
reform efforts.
Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost is estimated at $2.9
million equivalent. A development credit in the amount of $2.5 million
equivalent (SDR1.8 million) is proposed to finance the project.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience. The Bank has relatively limited
experience in the area of legal and judicial reform, given that most past Bank
interventions have focused on one area of the legal system. Recent projects in
the Russian Federation, Venezuela, Bolivia, China and the West Bank and Gaza,
however, have underscored the importance of ownership at the highest level of
government and of counterpart commitment. Legal and judicial reform, in
particular, can touch upon issues of sovereignty, hence it cannot be imposed
from the outside. Recent Bank experience generally suggests that the following
are pre-requisites for project success: (i) sound implementation arrangements
that are fully agreed to by all counterparts; (ii) establishment of a clear
set of priorities among the various reform objectives by linking legal reform
objectives to economic reform goals; and (iii) avoidance of over-ambitious and
unattainable goals.
Sustainability. Sustainability will largely depend on the commitment of key
participants in the project. The establishment of the steering committee, and
the criteria used in selecting its members, will ensure success of the
project. The Bank will follow the process closely to ensure transparency and
the nomination of highly qualified individuals who are committed to reform.
The project will strengthen the Yemeni judiciary by financing a mix of
technical assistance, training programs and law books. Financing of recurrent
costs will be kept to a minimum, hence the benefits from the project will be
sustainable.
Environmental Aspects. The project does not have explicit environmental
components or effects and has therefore been classified as Category C.
Poverty Category. n/a
Program Objectives Categories. If successful, the proposed project would have
benefits in several program objective categories. First, the project would
facilitate private sector development by strengthening the capabilities of
MOLPA to provide legal advice to the Government in the business, financial and
economic law areas. Second, by training judges and arbitrators, the project
will contribute to rationalizing public sector management and improving the
performance of the judiciary.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
1818 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
-3-



Hadi Abushakra
The World Bank
(202) 4581732 (tel)
(202) 477-1334 (fax)
- 4 -



