               Document of
            The World Bank




                                            Report No: 27561

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (IDA-32740)

                  ON A

                 CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR1.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                 TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                  FOR A

 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             December 30, 2003

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
                                  YER 100 = US$ 0.56
                                    US$ 1 = YER 178

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL    Adaptable Programmatic Loan
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
LIC    Learning and Innovation Credit
MOJ    Ministry of Justice
MOLA   Ministry of Legal Affairs
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme




                           Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                          Country Director    Mahmood A. Ayub
                           Sector Manager     Zoubida Allaoua
                           Task Manager:      Elisabeth Sherwood

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                            Legal and Judicial Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            18
Annex 8. Counterpart Completion Report                                           19

                                    Implementation Completion Report
                                            Republic of Yemen
                                           Credit No. 32740-YE

                                                   Preface

This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Legal and Judicial Development Project to the
Republic of Yemen. The Project was approved on June 29, 1999 and made effective on January 24, 2000.
The Project closed on June 30, 2003.

The ICR was prepared by Ms. Elisabeth Sherwood, with significant input from Mr. Hadi Abushakra, Lead
Counsel and Task Team Leader during project preparation and implementation, and Ms. Linda Van
Gelder, Senior Economist. The report is based on a desk review of project files, disbursement records,
discussions with staff involved in the project, and information received from Project counterparts at the
Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Legal Affairs in the Republic of Yemen.

Project ID: P057915                                                  Project Name: Legal and Judicial Development Project
Team Leader: Elisabeth Sherwood                                      TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Legal and Judicial Development Project                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-32740
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (80%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Law reform
                            (P); Access to law and justice (P); Personal and property rights (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/29/1998                                     Effective: 10/30/1999                01/24/2000
     Appraisal: 09/29/1998                                         MTR: 12/31/2000                  02/14/2001
      Approval: 06/29/1999                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Yemen/Ministry of Justice; Ministry of Legal Affairs
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Zoubida Allaoua                                Wafik Grais
Team Leader at ICR:             Elisabeth Sherwood                             Hadi Abushakra
ICR Primary Author:             Elisabeth Sherwood


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Legal and Judicial Reform Project were to assess the impact of targeted training of
judges and arbitrators on the effectiveness of the judiciary and to enhance the ability of the Ministry of
Legal and Parliamentary Affairs to prepare and advise on business and economic legislation.

These objectives were designed in the context of economic and financial reforms that were ongoing at the
time of project preparation, and reflected long-standing concerns regarding judicial weaknesses and their
impact on the growth agenda and other development issues, and a weak legislative framework for business
and investment. The project was consistent with both the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the
2002 CAS. The 1999 CAS focused on the project and its planned follow-up as a means to address the
problems of weak governance. The 2002 CAS and its underlying Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper focus
on the need to improve governance, the investment environment, and the judiciary, and the CAS states that
improved governance underpins the four pillars of Bank intervention.

The project was prepared as a Learning and Innovation Credit (LIC) due to IDA's lack of previous
involvement in the sector and the concern that World Bank involvement could provoke a backlash against
reformers. More important, according to key staff involved in the project and in Yemen during the project
preparation period, the underlying objective was to see if a consituency for reform could be created and
progress made toward a reform and development agenda. While unfortunately not reflected in the final
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), it was felt that exposure of the judicial community to outside
perspectives and modern legal theory -- for example, through overseas training -- could serve to initiate new
approaches and to expand the constituency of reform-minded judges within the sector. This strengthening
of the constituency for reform was essential for sustainable change in the sector.

There was widespread Bank management agreement that a LIC was the correct lending instrument for the
operation, although consideration was also given to structuring the project as an Adaptable Programmatic
Loan (APL). The LIC, as opposed to an APL, provided both the Bank and the government with a trial
period of engagement, from which either party could withdraw if viewed as unsuccessful, or even
counterproductive. At the same time, and reflected in the 1999 CAS, Bank management committed to a
follow-up APL that would provide the hardware and construction activities that were the primary request
of the government, in conjunction with movement on an agreed reform agenda.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of three components. The first component focused on capacity building within the
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and among the judiciary, allocating US$ 2.19 million equivalent to train sitting
judges and arbitrators, to revise the curriculum at the Supreme Judicial Institute, and to carry out
assessments and make recommendations regarding court administration and judgement execution. In
addition, this component was to finance a study of courthouse infrastructure needs and architectural
designs (which would have fed into hard infrastructure investments as part of the follow-up APL), as well
as some information technology equipment.

The second component allocated US$ 630,000 equivalent toward capacity building at the Ministry of Legal
and Parliamentary Affairs (now simply the Ministry of Legal Affairs [MOLA]) regarding drafting of laws
related to the economy, to commerce, and to investment, and carrying out diagnostic assessments of the
legal framework governing business, economic, and financial activities and of the legal, regulatory, and
administrative framework for land.

A third component allocated US$ 110,000 for a baseline study for an awareness campaign on the role of
law and the judiciary in Yemen. The first component was managed by the MOJ; the second and third
components were managed by MOLA.



                                                     - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the project is rated satisfactory. The project was prepared despite enormous
challenges in Yemen and in the judicial and legal sector, sharp divisions within the government regarding
the necessity of changes in the structure of the economy and the related legal and judicial frameworks, and
justified concerns regarding conflicts within the judiciary between traditionalists and modernists. Dialogue
during preparation was extremely difficult, and negotiations were put on hold for nearly six months. The
Bank continued its investment in the project due to the centrality of the weakness of the judiciary to the
growth agenda and poverty alleviation -- i.e., the realization that, without fundamental changes in the
administration of laws, other assistance could never achieve real effect -- and following requests from the
Prime Minister, the Minister of Planning, and other donors that the Bank remain engaged in the sector.

Within that context, the project's objectives and components were appropriate and reasonably defined, there
was reasonable dialogue among the parties and commitment within the counterpart agencies, and there was
recognition of the very risky nature of the project and the high possibility of failure. Caveats, however,
relate to the setting of key performance indicators for the project and, to a lesser degree, to readiness for
implementation. Regarding the latter, contracting for technical assistance was not well advanced, and
decisions about training were not finalized. Had this been a full-scale investment project, this weakness
would be considered more serious. However, because of the experimental nature of the project, the fact
that the first year's program was not fully prepared is not suprising or a significant comment on the quality
at entry of the project. It should be noted that more detailed preparation -- for example, an in-depth legal
and judicial sector asessment -- was not possible given the wariness of both the Bank and the government
toward the Bank's involvement in the sector. To reiterate the point, the LIC was viewed as the first period
of engagement between the two parties, which would provide each with a sense of whether there could be
longer-term dialogue and assistance.

There was recognition within both the project team and country management that the expectations of the
project were quite modest -- centering on a continuing dialogue with the sector, initial assessments of legal
and regulatory frameworks in key sectors, and the participation of the judiciary in training -- and that the
small LIC-funded project was the only reasonable intervention in the sector at the time. Despite this, a
matrix of performance indicators was insisted on by regional quality assurance staff, who at that time were
under pressure to ensure that all projects had impeccable logical frameworks. The task team therefore
included in the Project Design Summary of the PAD a number of indicators that were simply overambitious
given the scope of the project and unlikely, in the time frame, to indicate progress. While a quality at entry
assessment undertaken after Board approval noted that monitoring indicators were "inadequate for an
objective assessment of the program's outcomes", i.e., that more detailed and sophisticated indicators
should be used, this ICR judges that, given the components, the short time frame, and the very limited
investment that the Bank was making, Bank's management and quality assurance staff should have limited
performance indicators to simple output indicators.

Nevertheless, in accordance with ICR guidelines, this ICR will judge the project's performance based on the
indicators as stated in the PAD.

Note that a quality at entry assessment was carried out after Board approval of the project, which rated
quality at entry satisfactory. The assessment noted weaknesses, however, in the preparation's analysis of
institutional capacity and in readiness for implementation.



                                                       - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Because of the way in which the objectives and performance indicators of the project were stated, there is
no alternative but to state that achievement of the project's objectives was unsatisfactory. Assessment of
the objective of improving the effectiveness of the judiciary was to have been done through surveys of
stakeholders (i.e., among the business and litigant communities), however, neither baseline nor end-project
surveys were undertaken. Regarding the objective of upgrading the capabilities of MOLA to prepare and
advise on business and economic legislation, the project prepared a baseline of solid information regarding
problems in the legal and regulatory frameworks for land, commerce, and investment, and staff participated
in training abroad on legislative and regulatory drafting and on international legal trends in commercial and
financial legislation. However, it is not possible to assess at this time the impact of these activities.

Notwithstanding the above comments with respect to the achievement of objectives for the judiciary,
reactions from participants in the project-funded training program were extremely positive. Given the
suspicion the program generated during project preparation -- that external training was unnecessary, that
any external influence would infringe on Yemeni culture and tradition, etc. -- the training was remarkably
well received and accepted by the judiciary. Equally important, the project enabled a significant amount of
training of judicial clerks -- largely seen as a bottleneck in the system -- on efficient document handling and
case management. Finally, the project funded the purchase and/or production of necessary legal resources,
which had been unavailable in the majority of courts. In terms of the more realistic objective of assessing
the feasibility of donor assistance to the sector, the project provided evidence that, while investment in the
judiciary is welcome, assistance that approaches policy and the legal framework, or that may result in
encroachments on established interests, are not possible without high level support in the government.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall achievement of outputs under the project is rated satisfactory. Overall outputs under the
Judical Development Component are rated satisfactory, due to the significant amount of training provided
both within and outside of Yemen. Outputs under the Legal Development component are rated
satisfactory, as assessments of the legal frameworks for investment and business and land and real estate
were completed. In terms of the Public Awareness Component, the single output -- the baseline survey of
public attitudes toward the judiciary -- was completed.

Judicial Development Component: Overall, achievement of outputs under the Judicial Development
Component is rated satisfactory, due to successful delivery of the training subcomponent. At the end of the
project, approximately 220 members of the judiciary -- primarily judges, as well as several arbitrators and
officials within the Ministry of Justice -- had completed courses and practical training at the Supreme
Judicial Institute in Egypt. Courses included topics in commercial law (contracts, bankruptcy, banking
instruments, etc.) and penal law, such as criminal procedures and judicial investigations. In addition,
approximately 26 courses on the same topics were delivered to approximately 650 judges, arbitrators, and
clerks through the High Judicial Institute (the only academic institution for the legal profession in Yemen)
and the Yemen Abitration Center, while approximately 375 judges, prosecutors, and clerks received
training at the Justice Information Center, which had recently been built up to organize case files and legal
decisions. Project-funded courses at the High Judicial Institute were taught by instructors primarily from
Egypt and Jordan, with those from Egypt arranged through the larger training agreement with Egypt's
Supreme Judicial Institute. In total, approximately 80 percent of judges received training through the
project. Most important, subjects of courses arranged through the project had not previously been pursued
on a regular basis by the Judicial Institute.



                                                        - 4 -

Technical assistance outputs under the component were partly achieved. An assessment of court
administration and judgement execution was carried out successfully, and was slightly expanded to discuss
other issues facing the judiciary. An assessment of courthouse infrastructure and construction needs, which
was originally intended as a potential input into a follow-up investment project, was not completed.
Finally, the curriculum at the High Judicial Institute was not revised and updated.

Outside of the project, the Ministry of Justice did pursue several actions that indicated commitment to
development of capacity and willingness to discuss the weaknesses of the sector. The successful
development of the Justice Information Center, mentioned above, was a significant investment in the
availability of information to the legal profession, and has been very well received. More important, the
Ministry did prepare a sector development strategy and published it -- actions that strongly indicated that
there was a constituency for change.

Legal Development Component: Overall, achievement of outputs under the Legal Development
Component is rated satisfactory. The two diagnostic assessments envisioned under the component -- one
on issues related to land, the other an assessment of business and investment-related legislation -- were
completed, although it should be noted that difficulties completing the latter resulted in two extensions of
the project. This was due to poor quality in an initial report; following many months of discussion and
negotiations, a new consultant team was hired to complete the assessment. The second extension was
caused by security concerns in Yemen that delayed the team's final consultations with counterparts. The
final report does provide a comprehensive assessment of weaknesses in Yemen's legal framework for
business and investment, and is a good base for eventual reforms. Capacity building took place as follows:
MOLA staff participated in a course in legislative and regulatory policy in commercial matters at the
Supreme Judicial Institute in Egypt, a detailed training program was prepared for the future, and job
descriptions and terms of reference for MOLA staff positions were prepared.

Public Awareness Component: Achievement of outputs under the Public Awareness Component is rated
satisfactory, as the output of a survey of public opinion was undertaken.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The ICR judges the institutional development impact of the project as modest. This is lower than the author
and project stakeholders would prefer and is due to the lack of objective means to evaluate the impact. The
participation of a large number of judges in training in judicial and legal topics is thought to have had a
substantial impact on institutional capacity within the judiciary and the MOF. The component supported
training of a cadre of judges, at all levels and throughout the system, with an appreciation for the value of
commercial legal issues, for new methods of court and case administration and for investigative methods,
and for communications among judges facing similar issues. Project officials in Yemen responsible for the
judicial development component feel strongly that the project has facilitated more open discussion of issues
and greater availability of information, both about laws and judicial decisions in Yemen, and about legal
trends elsewhere.

On a less positive note, political support for institutional development of the judiciary suffered a setback



                                                       - 5 -

midway through the project, when a cabinet reshuffle replaced the Minister of Justice. As described below
in paragraph 5.2, the new Minister was suspicious of changes to the judiciary and of involvement of
international financial institutions, which put project and non-project tasks on hold. There has since been
another change in the office, however, and it seems likely that the lack of interest at the ministerial level
was temporary. Unfortunately, the short-term change in leadership damaged international donors'
perception of government commitment, and resulted in the Bank's and other donors' stepping back from the
sector. In the Bank's case, removal of the follow-up APL from the lending program and ongoing CAS
discussions reduced potentially larger impact within the MOJ and MOLA, as the outputs supported by this
project were to have been pursued in the follow-up project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A significant factor that affected project progress was the deterioration in the security situation in Yemen in
2002. Following several security/terrorism-related incidents in the fall of 2002, World Bank staff were
unable to travel to Yemen between late 2002 and April, 2003, limiting communications to fax and e-mail.
This also affected the work of the team of foreign consultants assessing the legal framework for business
and investment, whose field visits to Yemen had to be postponed many months. The project was extended
in order to accommodate the expanded timeframe for the study.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While commitment to the project remained strong among officials involved with the project, commitment to
judicial and legal reform was inconsistent at the highest levels of government, a risk that was widely
acknowledged in the PAD and among Bank management. The implementation of the Judicial Development
Component, in particular, was compromised in mid-2001 by the replacement of a reform-minded minister
with a significantly more conservative minister. While training in Sana'a was able to continue during his
tenure, training in Egypt was largely curtailed, and was only able to restart after another cabinet-level
change. The overall reform and development agenda -- an update of which had been prepared in the first
half of 2001 and which was a strong indicator of counterpart ownership -- was put aside. While the
replacement of the Minister of Justice was simply a domestic political issue, it nonetheless sent a message
that modernization of the judiciary was not a priority. As a consequence, the Bank withdrew its support for
the follow-up project.

The above highlights an important challenge for the international community -- whether programs of
assistance can be structured that can accommodate the fact that progress in a sector is almost never linear,
and that change will occur in fits and starts, with periodic reverses. In the case of this project, a temporary
reversal resulted in the Bank and other donors essentially pulling out of the sector. In this case, the Bank
removed the incentive of a future investment project, which in turn discouraged full implementation of the
ongoing project. For example, once the follow-up APL was off the table, the Government no longer had an
incentive to address the highly controversial issue of introducing a new curriculum at the High Judicial
Institute. Since that time, the environment for sector development has improved, and the Bank may
re-engage, but the momentum built under the LIC has slowed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation staff within the relevant ministries performed very well, and there were no problems
directly ascribed to them that affected the project. There were minor procurement problems that can be
expected for agencies with little experience in Bank procurement -- bidding processes for several
assignments had to be restarted, delaying work, and bidding for some computer equipment was repeated
several times and never completed -- but these did not affect the outputs or outcome of the project.




                                                      - 6 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total disbursement from the Credit was approximately US$1.88 million, or $620,000 (25 percent) less
than appraised. The lower disbursements were due primarily to lower costs on technical assistance (due to
use of local consultants and non-implementation of some tasks) and lower procurement of equipment than
expected. Bank funding for training was slighly below original estimates (though higher than a mid-project
reallocation), but trained a higher number of judges and arbitrators than originally envisaged. It should be
noted that most training was arranged free of tuition costs, through an agreement with Egypt's Supreme
Judicial Institute. By agreement with the Bank's country director for Yemen, the project funded travel and
per diem costs for Yemeni participants in Egypt, and of Egyptian instructors in Yemen. Of the
approximately US$1.2 million spent on training, approximately 70 percent was for travel and per diem of
Yemeni participants in Egypt. This arrangement enabled approximately 50 percent more judges to be
trained in Cairo than would otherwise have been possible.

In June, 2002, approximately US$450,000 was reallocated from judicial training to goods and equipment
for the MOJ. However, it was ultimately not possible to use those funds.

A summary of allocations and actual disbursements is provided below. The PAD indicated that total
project costs would be approximately US$2.9 million, with US$400,000 contributed by the counterpart.
At the same time, all components, with the exception of locally-procured equipment, were eligible for 100
percent reimbursement from the project. Information regarding end-project counterpart contributions were
not available for the ICR.

                          Summary of Credit Allocation and Disbursement (US$)

Component                                 Original           Revised Allocation       Final Disbursement
                                         Allocation             (June 2002)
Judicial Development
  Training                                  1,388,900              944,500              1,154,000
  Consulting Services                         298,600              298,600               122,300*
  Goods                                       187,500              632,000               153,700
Legal Development
  Training                                    180,600                90,300                    0
  Consulting Services (incl. Public           298,600              388,900                380,200**
awareness campaign)
  Goods                                       145,800              145,800                 77,900
                                          2,500,000              2,500,000              1,888,100
* of which $88,000 was for project management, including financial management of the project as a whole.
** of which $25,200 was for project management



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is judged to be unlikely. While the impact of judicial training is viewed as
positive, insufficient institutional and political support, as the project-funded assessment of court
management and judicial process made clear, constrain the ability of the judiciary to focus on the tasks for
which they are trained and hired. Without significant investments in infrastructure, information, and
training, gains supported by the project would be difficult to maintain. In addition, the Bank's withdrawal
from the sector for the near future reduced the chances of the investments made by the project being
sustained. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is pursuing a pilot project at two courts


                                                       - 7 -

to improve court administration, and will also work on improving public awareness of judicial information
and legal rights; implementation of that project may help to sustain the investments of this project. With
respect to development of the legal framework for land, busines and investment, sustainability is possible;
MOLA has stated that the assessments undertaken through the project are being used as a basis for
preparation of revised legislation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Arrangements for ongoing training and capacity building have not been confirmed. The sector development
strategy prepared by the MOJ assumes significant outside assistance, as does the training plan prepared for
MOLA, however, donor assistance to the sector is limited at this time to a pilot project for model court
administration.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation is judged to be satisfactory. The project was prepared within
a very short time-frame, with very little experience in a highly sensitive and difficult sector. The small
project team established a dialogue with counterparts and pursued an appropriate program of technical
assistance, despite government preference to use IDA funds for construction and hardware. Bank
management provided significant support to a project that was viewed as highly risky, with a very high
chance of not achieving results.

7.2 Supervision:
While the task team leader interacted extensively and on a daily basis with project counterparts to assist
with technical sector issues and implementation in a manner that could be considered exemplary, on the
whole supervision is judged to be unsatisfactory. This is due to the lack of attention given to enabling an
objective basis for evaluation, weak documentation of supervision, weak Bank management oversight, and
lack of formal dialogue within the Bank regarding the objectives and achievements of the project. The
project was supervised on a limited budget, and the task team consisted for the first two years of the project
of the task team leader and one staff resident in the country office. This was considered sufficient thanks to
the Arabic language capacity of the task team leader and the on-the-ground support at the country office.
However, changes in country office staffing, combined with the change at the ministerial level of the MOJ,
resulted in the appearance of weak project implementation and government commitment. The task team
leader interacted with counterparts by phone and fax, and often undertook brief update visits in the context
of other tasks, but little written information was produced with respect to project implementation and
outputs. For example, while six supervision missions are recorded during the supervision period, only three
aide-memoires were prepared. Finally, there was little focus on the end objectives of the project, although
this was due in part to their lack of realism in the context of judicial and legal development in Yemen.

Bank support for the project waned following a change in country management. A review of the Yemen
portfolio was conducted shortly after the change in management, concluding that client commitment to
judicial reform was not high. As a result, a previously planned follow-on operation was dropped from the
new CAS. Bank management has stated that a future decision to be involved in the sector will depend on
the results of the ongoing UNDP project. Whether the Bank's withdrawal of support was correct or not, it
reduced the Government's incentives to actively implement the remainder of the project. The effect of this
change in support -- and, in effect, in the Bank's strategy of engagement in crucial, but difficult, sectors --
highlights the weaknesses inherent in the short-term nature of Bank interventions.

Sector management was only lightly engaged in the progress of the project, in part due to to the task team



                                                       - 8 -

leader's not being under direct managerial supervision of the sector and therefore not in regular contact. In
addition, there was no sectoral expertise in the sector unit itself, resulting in an unclear understanding of the
project. Sector management did not press for a greater level of detail in project supervision reports, nor did
it discuss project progress or strategy with the task team leader.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory, on the basis of the quality of project preparation and in the
strong dialogue built up between MOJ and MOLA staff and the task team leader.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance with respect to project preparation is rated satisfactory, particularly in terms of
direct counterpart interactions with IDA. Direct counterparts committed to an ambitious and potentially
controversial program of activities. However, mixed messages at the highest levels regarding willingness to
proceed with the project were harbingers of future lack of government interest in the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance with respect to project implementation is rated satisfactory despite the slow-down
that resulted from changes at the Ministry of Justice. A majority of project tasks were completed, and
training continued, although the remaining non-implemented tasks had little impetus once the Bank decided
not to pursue a follow-up APL.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is judged to be satisfactory. While formal project progress
reports were not prepared (or requested by the Bank), the implementing teams tracked project
disbursements and outputs well and worked well with the task team leader. Project accounts were part of
the ministerial accounts, but audits were prepared in a timely manner and did not indicate any problems.
There were some difficulties in procurement, which are understandable given the small amount of goods
and services to be procured under the project, but this did not have an effect on the final outcome of the
project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, overal borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The experience of the project provides some lessons regarding the Bank's involvement in highly sensitive or
contentious sectors, and regarding the Bank's management of learning and innovation projects.

First, with respect to the issue of the Bank's assistance to difficult but critical sectors, the project highlights
the need for consistency in the Bank's strategy over an extended period of time and an understanding that
there will inevitably be reversals in Government capacity to sustain momentum. The Bank's tendancy to
focus on the actions of individuals at particular points in time, rather than on the overall trend of
government actions, is a particular weakness that needs to be overcome if it is to be successful in its
mission.

With respect to learning and innovation projects, it is critical to honestly state what the learning objectives
are, rather than to meet theoretical best-practice visions of what should be accomplished. The extremely
high monitoring and evaluation standards set for the project may have been appropriate for a country with
relatively advanced sector monitoring capacity, or for a much larger project that could then allocate funds



                                                       - 9 -

specifically for monitoring and evaluation, but for an introductory LIC in a sector about which almost
nothing was known, higher level outcome indicators should have been rejected in favor of simple output
indicators. Unfortunately, as this contradicts Bank guidelines regarding objective setting and logical
framework development, it is unlikely that this lesson will be implemented in future operations with similar
challenges.

The project provided some indication that it is possible to overcome disinclination to use foreign
consultants for technical assistance, however, it is extremely important to balance the trade-offs between
higher quality outputs from foreign consultants and buy-in from government counterparts. In this project,
heavy use of local consultants had a positive impact, but could potentially have had a greater impact if it
had been combined with greater direct technical assistance from Bank staff during the course of
supervision. This was unfortunately not possible due to inadequate resources -- there are simply
insufficient staff in terms of sectoral expertise and language ability, especially taking into account the other
significant demands placed on them -- and security concerns that prevented staff from visiting Yemen.

The project provided an excellent example of the importance of local language skills. For the judicial
sector in Yemen, which has little interaction with the non Arabic-speaking world, there would not have
been a project without an Arabic-speaking task team leader. However, this also meant that much of project
supervision was conducted by phone and fax, in Arabic. This in turn placed additional importance on
implementation documentation and thorough communications to management.

Finally, the project provided an example of the positive effect of ministry implementation. At the time of
project preparation, implementation responsibility for most Bank projects was placed in independent PIUs.
Placing implementation responsibility for the Legal and Judicial Development Project within the two
relevant ministries (ministries that did not have previous experience with Bank projects) -- one of the first
instances of the direction towards which the Bank was moving -- contributed in a positive way to
ownership of the project by ministry staff and reinforcement of project goals. However, it also placed
additional burdens on the task team leader, and, as would be expected, resulted in a slowdown of activity as
a consequence of the change in political leadership at the Ministry of Justice.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Project counterparts provided completion reports on the respective components of the project, which are
provided in Annex 8. Specific comments on the Bank's ICR were not received.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 10 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Assessment of the potential of training to                                                   Insufficient information to judge.
improve the effectiveness of the judiciary.
Improved capacity within MOLA to prepare                                                     Insufficient information to judge.
and advise on business and economic
legislation.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
A cadre of trained judges                       675 judges trained.                          675 judges trained
A revised curriculum at the High Judicial       Not completed.                               Not completed.
Institute, and faculty trained in the revised
curriculum
A cadre of arbitrators trained in ADR           200 arbitrators trained                      200 arbitrators trained
mechanisms
A diagnostic assessment and action plan to      Assessment and recommendations               Assessment and recommendations
improve court administration and judgement      completed.                                   completed.
execution
Courthouse building plans                       Not completed.                               Not completed.
A baseline study for an awareness campaign Study completed.                                  Study completed.
on the role of law and the judiciary in society
A cadre of MOLA staff trained in issues of      30 staff participated in a training course.  30 staff participated in a training course.
business, financial, and commercial law
Diagnostic assessment of and action plan for Assessment and recommendations                  Assessment and recommendations
the legal framework governing business,         completed.                                   completed.
economic, and financial activities
Diagnostic assessment of and action plan for Assessment and recommendations                  Assessment and recommendations
the legal framework governing land tenure       completed.                                   completed.
and titling

1End of project




                                                                    - 11 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Judicial Development Component                                           1.96                 1.43
Legal Development Component                                              0.56                 0.43
Public Awareness Costs                                                   0.10                 0.03

Total Baseline Cost                                                      2.62                 1.89
 Physical Contingencies                                                  0.14                 0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                     0.18                 0.00
                            Total Project Costs                          2.94                 1.89
                    Total Financing Required                             2.94                 1.89


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.36               0.04             0.00              0.40
                                       (0.00)             (0.30)             (0.04)           (0.00)             (0.34)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               2.55             0.00              2.55
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.06)           (0.00)             (2.06)
   Total                                0.00               0.36               2.59             0.00              2.95
                                       (0.00)             (0.30)             (2.10)           (0.00)             (2.40)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.23             0.00              0.23
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.23)            (0.00)           (0.23)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.60)            (0.00)           (1.60)
   Total                                0.00               0.00              0.23             0.00              0.23
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.83)            (0.00)           (1.83)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                       - 12 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   Percentage of Appraisal
       Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA      Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
A. Judicial Development   1.87     0.32        0.00     1.43                  0.00  76.5    0.0     0.0
Component
B. Legal Development      0.54     0.09        0.00     0.43       0.00       0.00  79.6    0.0     0.0
Component
C. Public Awareness       0.10     0.11        0.00     0.03       0.00       0.00  30.0    0.0     0.0
Campaign




                                                - 13 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 14 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               05/22/1998                2    Senior Counsel/TTL; Counsel

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/16/1998                3    Senior Counsel/TTL;
                                              Disbursement Specialist;
                                              Financial Management
                                              Specialist
               10/31/1998                2    Senior Counsel/TTL
                                              Economist
               05/24/1999                3    Senior Counsel/TTL; Economist;
                                              Financial Management Specialist

 Supervision
               05/25/2000                 2   Senior Counsel/TTL;                   S               S
                                              Economist
               10/10/2000                 2   Senior Counsel/TTL: Senior            S               S
                                              Economist
               02/14/2001                 3   Senior Counsel/TTL; Senior            S               S
                                              Economist; Financial
                                              Management Specialist
               07/29/2001                 1   Senior Counsel/TTL                    S               S
               02/06/2002                 2   Senior Counsel/TTL; Senior            S               S
                                              Economist
               07/16/2002                 1   Senior Counsel/TTL                    S               S

 ICR
               Desk review only          1     Financial Sector                     S               U
                                               Specialist/TTL



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                32
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     70
  Supervision                                                              161
  ICR                                                                       10
  Total                                                                    273




                                               - 15 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, Republic of Yemen, Legal and Judicial Development Project. World
Bank Report No. 19567 YEM. June 28, 1999

2. Credit Agreement, Republic of Yemen and IDA, August 4, 1999

3. Project Preparation and Supervision Files, including Aide-Memoires dated as follows, and their
associated Project Supervision Reports, where applicable:

   June 2, 1998
   February 14, 2001
   February 6, 2002
   July 15, 2002

4. Quality at Entry Assessment, QAE3

5. Final Report: Analysis of Legal Framework, and Training Program and Review of Organizational
Arrangements and Job Descriptions (Ministry of Legal Affairs), GTZ International Services, May 2003

6. The Judiciary of the Republic of Yemen: A study on Reform, Dr. Yassin El-Ayouty, Esq., September,
2001

7. Legal Frame[work] of Lands and Real-Estate Possession in Yemen Republic, Ahmed Al-Abiad and Dr.
Hamzah M. Shaher, date unknown.




                                                   - 18 -

Additional Annex 8. Counterpart Completion Report

The following are summaries of completion reports submitted by project implementation teams at the
Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Legal Affairs. The Ministry of Justice completion report was
prepared by Ms. Fatma Seif Al-Shibani (Project Financial Manager), Mr. Lua Ismail Al-Wazir (Deputy
Project Coordinator), and Dr. Mohammed Gaafar Qasem, Former Under-Secretary at the Ministry. This
summary was prepared from a translation of their report. The Ministry of Legal Affairs completion report
was prepared by Mr. Jamal Ali Ahmed, Project Coordinator.



                                     Judicial Development Component

Pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement signed on 31 May 1999 between the Government of the
Republic of Yemen and International Development Association to finance the Legal and Judicial
Development Project in the Republic of Yemen in the amount of 1.8 million Special Drawing Rights
(equivalent to $2.5 million dollars), the proceeds of this credit have been distributed to the Ministry of
Justice and the Ministry of Judicial Affairs. The Ministry of Justice component, which totals $1,875,000,
aims to:

1.       Improve the performance of the judicial system.
2.       Enhance confidence in the judicial system.
3.       Carry out a training program for members of the judiciary.
4.       Carry out a training program to strengthen the capabilities and upgrade the skills of arbitrators in
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
5.       Carry out diagnostic assessments of court administration and judgment execution regulations and
practices.
6.       Prepare architectural plans to construct and rehabilitate courthouses countrywide.

The component funded training, technical assistance and studies, and the purchase of goods and equipment.
These are described below:

1.       Training

Pursuant to the project, the Ministry signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 19 June 1999 for training
Yemeni judicial cadres in the Arab Republic of Egypt. This was in implementation of a Cooperation
Protocol signed between our country and the Arab Republic of Egypt and covering legal and judicial
activities. The Memorandum of Understanding provides for setting up a training program consisting of 3-6
month training courses. Each training course consists of two components. One component, to be held in
the National Center of Judicial Studies, is a series of lectures and workshops discussing actual cases.
Training objectives include presenting the underlying principles and regulations governing court
procedures, public prosecutors offices and other legal institutions and allowing the trainees to share their
judicial experiences in order to gain first-hand knowledge of the work system in place and how it is
managed in courts and public prosecutors offices. The training also provides opportunities for practical
training and how to resolve practical and legal issues, gaining knowledge of the use of modern equipment
and databases in the trainees' judicial field.

The following training courses were conducted. External training was held largely in Cairo; internal
training was held primarily in Sana'a, using trainers from the Egyptian National Center of Judicial Studies.



                                                     - 19 -

External Training

1. Public Prosecution

Course length: Four months from 22 April 2000 through 21 August 2000.
Participants: 14 assistant district attorneys from public prosecution offices.
Training site: National Center of Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt.

Topics discussed included:

1.      The organizational structure of public prosecution
2.      Judicial inspection  instructions and methods
3.      Criminal procedures
4.      Public Penal Code
5.      Applied criminal investigation and qualities of the investigator
6.      Substantiation controls and criminal proof
7.      Criminal warrants system
8.      Applying doctrine in criminal cases
9.      Ethics of hearing
10.     Judicial values and traditions
11.     Judicial logic
12.     Environmental crimes and the prosecution's role in curbing them
13.     Violation of copyrights
14.     Methods of conducting studies
15.     Auxiliary criminal sciences (forensic medicine, material evidence, forgery, counterfeiting, drugs
and poisons)
16.     Human rights law
17.     Protecting intellectual property

Coursework lasted five weeks, followed by a week-long evaluation test conducted by a board of
consultants, which covered all topics that had been discussed. The course was followed by practical
training, consisting of case studies of actual cases. These cases were distributed to the trainees to study in
a workshop led by consultants. This was designed to allow the trainees to familiarize themselves with the
nature of work, the type of cases that would be referred to them, and how to investigate those cases and
make appropriate decisions on them before a final disposition. The practical component ran from 27 May
2000 through 31 July 2000. Finally, participants participated in on-the-job training in courts in Cairo.

2. Judicial Studies

Length of course: Six weeks from 1 July 2000 through 14 August 2000.
Participants: 20 assistant judges
Training site: National Center of Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt.

Course objectives: Prepare judges to sit at the Bench, to master subject matter and procedures, to
understand legal texts and their purposes, and to understand the legal opinions of those texts. The training
covered the law of civil and commercial procedures and law of evidence, civil law, and criminal procedure.
In addition, participants were able to attend civil or criminal case hearings and to discuss them with
Egyptian judges. Field trips were made to the Court of Appeal, the Constitutional Court, and the Center of


                                                      - 20 -

Judicial Data.

3. The World Bank's Judicial and Legal Reform Conference

Length of course: One week in July 2000
Participants: One person
Place: Marriott Hotel, Washington, D.C.
Organizing agency: World Bank

4. Commercial Law

Course length: 31 days from 1 September 2000 through 3 October 2000.
Participants: 30 presiding judges and members of the commercial appeals courts and presiding judges and
members of commercial courts of first instance.
Site of training; National Center of Judicial Studies and Cairo Regional Center for International
Commercial Arbitration

The purpose of the program was to keep the judges of commercial courts abreast of recent developments in
this field in general while focusing on investment and commercial laws and codes, maritime laws and
international laws and treaties in the commercial field. The training course covered commercial contracts
and sales, bank transactions, bankruptcy and debt workout, stock market activities, international
agreements and transport and shipping law, among other topics.

5. For Supreme Court Judges

Length of course: One week from 18 October 2000 to 26 October 2000
Participants: 10 Supreme Court judges
Place: Court of Appeal, Arab Republic of Egypt

6. Judicial Inspection

Length of course: One week from 18 October 2000 to 26 October 2000
Participants: 10 members of the Judicial Inspection Board
Place: Ministry of Justice, Public prosecution, Arab Republic of Egypt

7. Arbitration

A training program for licensed arbitrators held at the Cairo Regional Center for International Commercial
Arbitration was attended by five arbitrators. The course featured theoretical training and practical training
covering a hypothetical dispute case in the field of international commercial arbitration. The course
covered the following topics:

1. Modern trends concerning arbitration rules and other means of resolving international commercial
    disputes
2. Arbitration agreement  basic data
3. Forming an arbitration board
4. The law that must be applied with respect to procedures and subject
5. Arbitrament: Its nature, data, interpretation, design, additional arbitrament
6. Nullification of arbitrament


                                                      - 21 -

7. Executing arbitrament and related problems
8. International construction contracts
9. Role of the arbitration agency in the arbitration process

8. Electronic Commerce and International Insolvency

Under the auspices of Dr. Esmat Abdul Meguid, Secretary General of the Arab League, the Regional
Center for International Commercial Arbitration, in coordination with the Arab League and jointly with
United Nations Council for International Trade law (UNCITRAL), the World Bank, and the International
Council for Commercial Arbitration (ICCA), International Federation of Insolvency Professionals (INSOL)
held an International Conference on Electronic Commerce and International Insolvency during the period
from 20-22 November 2000. On 23 November 2000 a meeting of the Arab Judicial Club was held at the
Arab League Headquarters. Eleven judges and arbitrators from all parts of Yemen participated.

9. International Criminal Court Issues

Length of course: From 8 to 14 November 2000
Number of Participants: 5 judges
Place: Arab League
Subject: Coordinating Arab countries' stance on ratifying the International Criminal Court Act

10. Criminal Law

Length of course: Fourteen days from 10 March 2001 through 23 March 2001
Participants: 22 chiefs and members of penalty branches and presidents and members of penal courts of
first instance from throughout the Republic of Yemen.
Training site: National Center for Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt

11. Anticorruption

Length of course: Fourteen days from 10 March 2001 through 23 March 2001
Participants: 14 public funds judges from all governorates of Yemen.
Training site: National Center for Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt

12. Resolving Commercial Disputes

Length of course: 7-10 May 2001
Participants: 5 arbitrators
Subject: Discussing approaches to resolving commercial disputes, including arbitration and conciliation,
etc., as well as governing laws in the Gulf States and Yemen

13. Commercial Law

Length of course: 10-16 June 2002
Participants: 10 commercial judges
Training site: National Center for Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt
Subject and activity: A symposium on how to resolve some commercial disputes in accordance with
Egyptian and Yemeni laws and a visit to a number of Egyptian courts specializing in commercial disputes




                                                     - 22 -

14. Civil Law

Length of course: 3-4 September 2002
Participants: 15 judges
Subject: Studying types of contracts and civil commitments and how to apply practical methods to
resolving relative disputes

15 and 16. Appellate Court Issues

Length of course: 1-10 June 2003, and 14-27 June, 2003
Participants: 28 appeal judges
Training site: National Center for Judicial Studies, Arab Republic of Egypt
Activity: Group discussion of a number of appeals in civil and commercial lawsuits and court decisions on
those appeals

17. Judicial Review and Inspection

Length of course: 21 June to 3 July 2003
Participants: 20 judges and district attorneys
Training site: Judicial inspection councils at Ministry of Justice and Public Prosecution, Egypt
Subject: Group discussion of methods used for inspecting judges and district attorneys and results achieved

Internal Training

Training held in Yemen consisted largely of legal and judicial overview and refresher courses, computer
training, and miscellaneous courses. The overview ("qualifying") and refresher courses were as follows:

        A total of three 3-month "Qualifying" Courses for judges and district attorneys were held in 2000,
2001, and 2002, training a total of 200 judges and district attorneys. A comprehensive course in legal and
judicial topics, the courses covered:

1.       Commercial law (bank transactions, checks, company mergers, bankruptcy, shipping, copyright
         law)
2.       Civil law
3.       Penal code
4.       Penal procedures
5.       Law of proof
6.       General topics about the administration of justice, arbitration, corruption, and ethics of the
         judiciary, and
7.       Law of civil and commercial procedures

In addition, the course included practical training and field trips to criminal labs and the department of
prisons.

        Four 2-week "refresher" courses were held between 2000 and 2002 for a total of 210 judges and
district attorneys. Course objectives were to review case studies, with a view toward redressing
deficiencies and inconsistencies in legal application. The course covered the following topics:




                                                     - 23 -

1.       Terminating contracts
2.       Drawbacks of consent
3.       Arrest and temporary detention warrants
4.       Forensic medicine
5.       Criminal procedures
6.       Civil law

        Two 3-month courses for court secretaries, held in 2002. A total of 70 court secretaries
participated in the courses, which consisted of training in court procedure, the substance of laws, court
records and forms, etc.

        Five courses in computer technology and use of the Ministry of Justice's Judiciary Data Center. A
total of 374 judges, clerks, and other employees of the Ministry of Justice were trained through these
courses.

In addition, training held in Yemen and funded through the project included the following courses:

1. Arbitration and Arbitration Procedures

Length of course: One week from 24-29 June 2000
Participants: 50 arbitrators, commercial judges and jurists from all parts of the Republic
Training site: Center for Conciliation and Arbitration of Yemen, Sanaa
Course activity: Discussing arbitration procedures and arbitrament. Participants discussed a number of
issues, including major characteristics and legal principles of international commercial arbitration, bilateral
and multilateral arbitration, and procedures, decisions and challenges to those decisions.

2. Arbitration and banking and construction dispute resolution:

Length of course: One week from 21-26 October 2000
Participants: 50 arbitrators, commercial judges and jurists from all parts of Yemen
Training site: Sanaa
Course objectives: Banking and construction dispute resolution. The course covered the following topics:

1. Bank transactions
2. Defaulted loan disputes resolution alternatives
3. Issues related to conflict of laws governing banking and construction arbitration
4. Dispute resolution in accordance with FEDIC provisions governing construction contracts
5. Role of the expert
6. Multiple parties in construction contracts

3. The Role of Litigants and Related Parties in the Arbitration Process

Length of course: 17 March through 22 March 2001
Participants: 59 judges from all governorates
Training site: Hedda Hotel, Sanaa

Course objectives:




                                                     - 24 -

1.      Upgrading the skills and scientific and practical experiences of participants engaged in commercial
and civil arbitration and introduce them to the role of litigants and other parties in the arbitration process.
2.      Gaining knowledge of modern rules and laws on which international trade arbitration is based.
3.      Studying the preventive and auxiliary role of judiciary in the arbitration process, including the role
of national judiciary in executing or nullifying foreign arbitration rules.
4.      Combining the theoretical component with a practical training involving a number of hypothetical
disputes. The objective is to increase the participants' scientific and practical competences.

Course topics included the rules and principles governing commercial arbitration, and the roles and
responsibilities of various actors in the arbitration process. The course included practical training in
resolving disputes

4. Islamic Law

Length of course: Four months starting 3 August 2002
Participants: 40 judges and district attorneys
Training site: Judiciary Data Center, Ministry of Justice, Sanaa
Course objectives: Studying several Sharia cases in accordance with the provisions of Islamic Law and
Yemeni Civil Law

5. Court Administration

Length of course: For one week starting 17 August 2002
Participants: 30 judges
Training site: Higher Judicial Institute, Sanaa
Course objectives: Discussing the best and most appropriate court administration procedures in various
courts

*************************

2.      Technical Assistance and Studies

The project funded a study of court infrastructure needs. The study was assigned to a local office (Designs
World)

The project funded a study on assessing court administration, which was carried out by Dr. Yaseen
Al-Ayyouti, an international consultant.

3.      Goods and Equipment:

The project provided support to libraries of the Ministry of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's office, the
Higher Judicial Institute, and courts by procuring for those libraries reference materials and legal,
jurisprudent and legislative books, as well as Yemeni legislative references and necessary equipment. A
large number of legal and Islamic Law texts were procured to meet the needs of five libraries in a number
of courts. The Ministry of Justice purchased the books and equipment needed by the libraries and a
distribution plan was prepared to distribute the books and references as follows:

1. Supplying ten established court libraries with new books on Islamic Law.
2. Supplying the public prosecution library with books and references that have been selected and purchase


                                                      - 25 -

by the Office of the Attorney General.
3. Supplying the Higher Judicial Institute with whatever legal texts on Islamic Law are available.

In addition, the Judicial Data Center was equipped with a computer to start networking courts, prosecutor's
offices, the Ministry of Justice, and prisons.

Bids were invited for procurement of a large number of computers and network connectivity equipment, in
addition to the purchase of a card issuance system. Technical and financial committees at the Ministry of
Justice finalized a financial and technical analysis, but unfortunately after the closing of the credit.

Obstacles Faced by the Project

1. Delays in approving and signing requests for withdrawals: The most significant obstacle
encountered by the project was the unjustified long delay in approving and signing requests for withdrawals
from the account to finance the various courses listed in the project by the competent agencies in the
Ministry of Justice.

2. Recruitment of consultants for technical assistance and training: $171,000 was earmarked for
technical assistance. Because the date of arrival of those experts and their names were not known, this
allocation was not used in the remaining period of the credit. Therefore, a decision was taken to amend the
allocation in this category to meet the needs of the Ministry and courts for devices and equipment after
securing the approval of the concerned departments and the World Bank. Indeed, the allocation was added
to the goods category and bids were invited for procurement of computers and network connectivity
equipment to connect the Ministry of Justice, the public prosecutor's office, the Central Prison, commercial
courts and a number of appeal courts. However, as a result of a delay by the concerned departments in the
Ministry of Justice, the credit closed before the bid was finalized.




                                       Legal Development Component

The following have been achieved:

        Diagnostic study for commercial, economic, and financial legislation.
        A legislative action plan, including terms of reference for follow-up work, proposed organizational
arrangements and job descriptions for MOLA staff, and a detailed training plan for MOLA staff.
        Training of MOLA staff in (i) commercial and economic legislation and (ii) computer, internet, and
database operations. Thirty MOLA staff participated in the former course, held at the Egyptian National
Center for Judicial Studies, which covered general issues regarding legal statutes (objectives, institutional
and political framework, drafting and amendment, etc.) and commercial and financial laws (investment
laws, banking, electronic transactions, private-sector participation in infrastructure agreements [e.g.,
build-own-operate-transfer agreements], intellectual property rights, international financial agreements and
international borrowing, World Trade Organization agreements, financial markets, anti-money laundering,
among others). In addition, the training included practical training at the legal department of the Egyptian
State Council and at the Egyptian Ministry of Justice.
        Diagnostic study for the legal framework of land ownership, ownership, deeds, and land



                                                      - 26 -

registration, and a proposed reform plan.
        Baseline study of public opinion of the role of law and the judicial system, as an input into a
planned public awareness campaign
        Goods: the project enabled the procurement of miscellaneous computers and other office
equipment for Ministry use, including for Ministry branches in Ibb, Hajja, Mahweet, Aden, and Sa'da. In
addition, the project funded the purchase of encyclopedias of Arab laws and a database of Arab laws.

Particular accomplishments of the project are the completion of a number of diagnostic studies for the legal
framework of financial, economic, and commercial nature, and the beginnings of the strategy for public
awareness of legal issues. This work constitutes a pillar for preparation and implementation of the legal
plan and program which the Ministry is currently preparing, and which will then be submitted to the
Cabinet for discussion and approval.

In addition, the training courses provided to MOLA staff were the first of this kind of for the Ministry, as
the Ministry has never held such courses before. Staff were introduced to several new topics, such as
Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) infrastructure projects and anti-money laundering.

Finally, the purchase of reference materials of Arab laws is extremely important for the Ministry and those
interested in the law.

There were no serious challenges faced in the course of the project. The task manager and the legal team
worked in solidarity, despite security problems in the region between September 2002 and April 2003.
Most of the procedures were effected via fax and phone as well as visits made by Mr. Abushakra. We
would like to express our deep acknowledgement and appreciation to Mr. Hadi Abushakra for his
remarkable efforts and illuminating instructions with regard to the project.

The Ministry is interested in further implementation of activities through the following:
        Keeping in touch with other relevant ministries to keep them informed on the final reports and on
ways they can implement the recommendations of the report.
        Approving the training plan and looking for local and foreign financial resources for its
implementation.




                                                    - 27 -

- 28 -

