Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3274-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Legal and Judicial Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3274-YEM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice;
(b)
“MOLPA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs;
(c)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(f)
“Supreme Judicial Institute” means the Supreme Judicial Institute of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR1,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account 
B) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
Special Account A shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under Categories 
(1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) (a) while Special Account B shall be used exclusively to 
finance expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b). Deposits into, and 
payments out of, a Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
Page  3
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009, and ending February 1, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3)  consecutive years 
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5)  years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
Page  4
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such fiscal year 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one ,(1)   year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2000, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between actual 
and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional event to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
Page  6
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P. O. Box 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
2266CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tufan Kolan 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Training
Page  7
(a) under Part A of
   1,000,000
100%
the Project
(b) under Part B of
     130,000
100%
the Project
(2)
Consultant services
(a) under Part A of
     215,000
100%
the Project
(b) under Parts B
     215,000
100%
and C of the Project
(3)
Goods
(a) under Part A of
     135,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local 
expenditures
(b) under Part B of
     105,000
(ex-factory cost) 
and
the Project
85% of local
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally
TOTAL
  1,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) expenditures for services under contracts 
for training and the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; and (c) expenditures for services under contracts for individuals costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) investigating 
the potential of judicial training to improve the functioning of the court system; (b) 
enhancing the public’s confidence in the court system; and (c) upgrading the 
capabilities of MOLPA to prepare and advise on business and economic legislation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Judicial Reform
1.
Carrying out a training program to enhance the effectiveness and competence of 
the judiciary through, inter alia: (i) the development and carrying out of refresher 
Page  8
courses for sitting judges in the area of business and commercial law; (ii) the 
development of a modern judicial education curriculum at the Supreme Judicial 
Institute; and (iii) the training of judicial educators at the Supreme Judicial 
Institute.
2.
Carrying out a training program to strengthen the capabilities and upgrade the 
skills of local arbitrators in alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
3.
Carrying out diagnostic assessments of court administration and judgment 
execution regulations and practices, each such assessment to recommend reform programs 
and include action plans to carry out said programs.
4.
Preparation of architectural plans to construct and rehabilitate courthouses 
countrywide.
5.
Preparation of diagnostic and other studies and training programs, and the 
carrying out of such other activities as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives 
of Part A of the Project.
Part B:
Legal Reform
1.
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capabilities of MOLPA in preparing, 
reviewing and advising on business, financial and economic legislation, and in 
understanding international business transactions.
2.
Carrying out a diagnostic assessment of the legal framework governing business, 
economic and financial activities, exclusive of the laws governing land tenure, 
transfer, titling and registration, such assessment to recommend a reform program and 
include an action plan to implement the recommended reform.
3.
Carrying out a diagnostic assessment of the legal framework governing land 
tenure, transfer, titling and registration, such assessment to recommend a reform 
program and include an action plan to implement the recommended reform.
4.
Preparation of diagnostic and other studies and training programs, and the 
carrying out of such other activities as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives 
of Part B of the Project.
Part C:
Awareness Campaign
Carrying out a baseline study for an awareness campaign on the role of law and 
the judiciary in society.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
Page  9
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as stated in paragraph 2 of this Part B, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following provisions of Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  10
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts A.2, B.2 and B.3 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Schedule
1.
The Borrower shall vest the responsibility for implementation of Part A of the 
Project in MOJ, and Parts B and C of the Project in MOLPA. Each of MOJ and MOLPA shall 
assign, from among their personnel, a qualified and experienced team of professionals 
consisting of a technical expert and a financial expert who shall be responsible for 
the day-to-day management of their respective Part of the Project. Both of the said 
teams shall operate under the supervision of a steering committee whose membership 
shall include the Ministers of Justice and the Minister of Legal and Parliamentary 
Affairs. The Steering Committee shall oversee the carrying out of the Project, 
supervise its implementation and approve annual Project implementation plans.
2.
In order to achieve the objectives of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that (a) the Supreme Judicial 
Institute shall offer, not later than June 30, 2001, the curriculum referred to under 
Part A.1 (ii) of the Project, such curriculum to be developed in accordance with 
guidelines agreed upon with the Association; and (b) prepare and furnish to the 
Page  11
Association, not later than December 31 of each year until completion of the Project, 
commencing December 31, 1999, a work program in respect of the training activities to 
be carried out under Part A of the Project in the course of the twelve (12) months 
immediately following the date of the above-mentioned program, and shall, after 
exchanging views with the Association with respect to such program, carry out said 
program taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis until completion of the Project, 
commencing January 1, 2000, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of three (3) months 
preceding the date of such report, and (ii) on or about December 31, 2000, a mid-term 
report, integrating the data and other information contained in the reports prepared 
pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Project during the period preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period 
following such date; and (c) review with the Association each such report, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of such report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) 
(a), (2) (b), (3) (a) and (3) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into a Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to $200,000, and, in the 
case of Special Account B, to $100,000, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for Special Account A shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000, and the Authorized Allocation for Special 
Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $50,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR730,000 under Part 
A of the Project and the equivalent of  SDR220,000 under Parts B and C of the Project.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation relative to 
said Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall 
be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amount, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into either Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for Special Account A and Special Account B.  Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into either Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  13
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
