Page  1
September 13, 2000
H. E. Dr. Ahmed Mohamed Sofan
Minister of Planning and Development
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana’a,  Republic of Yemen
Re:
Legal and Judicial Development Project (Credit No. 3274-YEM)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement                            
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement relating to the Legal and 
Judicial Development Project (the Project) between the Republic of Yemen (the 
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the "Association"), 
dated August 4, 1999 (the "Credit Agreement").  We also refer to the 
understandings reached between representatives of the Borrower and the 
Association to modify the procurement arrangements relative to the training 
activities under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project and eliminate the restriction 
on the disbursement in full of the Authorized Allocation for Special Account A.  
Accordingly, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be amended to read as follows: 
“Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, and training services under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project estimated 
to cost up to $800,000 equivalent and to be provided by the National Center of 
Judicial Studies of the Arab Republic of Egypt, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.”
2.
The first comma in the fourth line of paragraph 1 (c), following the 
numeral 100,000, is deleted and replaced by a full stop, and the words 
“provided, however” until the end of paragraph 1 (c) are deleted in their 
entirety.
3.
All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement that have not been 
amended hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Letter Amendment and returning it to 
the Association.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
       Country Director
       Middle East Department
       Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmed Mohamed Sofan
Date: October 22, 2000
