                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 27705

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (CPL-39760 TF-29112)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION

                                            TO

                                        ROMANIA

                                          FOR A

                           RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                       May 11, 2004




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective March 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Leu
                                       1 Leu = US$ 0.00003
                                       US$ 1 = Lei 32,230

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

IBRD               -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EBRD               -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU-PHARE           -    European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
PMU                -    Project Management Unit
IRIS               -    Integrated Railway Information System
RAP                -    Restructuring Action Plan
SNCFR              -    Societatea Nationala a Cailor Ferate Romane
                        (Romanian National Railways)
CFR                -    Infrastructure Company
SAR                -    Staff Appraisal Report
LANs               -    Local Area Net Works
SAAF               -    Surplus Asset Disposal Company
PSO                -    Public Service Obligations
MTCT               -    Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism
LANs               -    Local Area Networks
IRIS (World Bank)  -    Intregrated Records and Information Services




                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                           Country Director     Anand K. Seth, ECCU5
                    Sector Manager/Director     Mooto Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
                        Task Team Leader:       Antti P. Talvitie, ECSIE

                                          ROMANIA
                        RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Restructuring Action Plan                                               31
Annex 9. Supplemental Tables                                                     46

Project ID: P036013                                                  Project Name: RAILWAY REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Antti P. Talvitie                                       TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: RAILWAY REHABILITATION                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-39760; TF-29112
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Railways (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/23/1994                                     Effective: 08/15/1996                08/15/1996
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR: 06/01/1998                  10/15/1999
      Approval: 01/18/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SNCFR/ROMANIA NATIONAL RAILWAY (SNCFR)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Michael Wiehen
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi                                 Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Antti P. Talvitie                              Anita George
ICR Primary Author:             Antti P. Talvitie


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project is to support and deepen the restructuring process, which the Railways and the
Government have initiated. The project supports a set of policy measures that are embodied in the new
Railway Law, the Restructuring Action Plan (RAP), and the Performance Contracts that the Infrastructure
and Passenger Companies have agreed with the Government.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The World Bank, the EBRD and Phare financed the project in parallel, but with independent time schedules
and supervision. This section of the ICR describes the project components for each of the three financiers.
This summary description gives the full picture about priorities at project start. This is followed by the
summary of the entire railway sector financing in Romania during the duration of the project. This is
necessary in order to put into perspective the fundamental reorganization of the railways, whose many
details could not be foreseen at project start, that has taken place during this project. The subsequent
sections of the ICR refer only to the World Bank financed project entity because it was supervised
independently and the Borrower's PMU coordinated the several projects.




                                                   - 2 -

                                                      Table 1
                                           PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                                             Cost Estimates (US$ mn)
                        PROJECT COMPONENT                              Local¹  Foreign      Total    FEC
                                                                                                      (%)
                             A ­ BANK (IBRD)
 1. Mechanization of Track maintenance and overhaul works, including    46.00     44.00      90.00     49.00
      track renewal on 900 kilometers routes
 2. Integrated Railway Information System (IRIS)                         8.00     22.00      30.00     49.00
 3. Modernization of Telecommunication network (to support IRIS)         8.20     30.50      38.70     78.80
 4. Catenary tensioning machine                                          0.60       1.60      2.20     72.70
 5. Environment, equipment, priority items                               0.40       1.00      1.40     71.40
 6. Technical Services                                                   0.40       0.60      1.00     60.00
      Base Costs                                                        63.60     99.70      163.30    61.00
      Contingencies                                                     11.80     20.30      32.10      0.00
      Total Project costs (A)                                           75.40     120.00     195.40    61.00
                                  B - EBRD
 1. Rehabilitation of the traction                                       5.80     16.10      21.90     74.00
 2. Equipment for traction depots                                        2.70       6.30      9.00     70.00
 3. Coach Refurbishment                                                  9.00     29.50      38.50     77.00
 4. Wagon Rehabilitation                                                 3.30       8.70     12.00     73.00
      Base Costs                                                        20.80     60.60      81.40     74.00
      Contingencies                                                      4.20     12.00      16.20      0.00
      Total Project costs (B)                                           25.00     72.60      97.60     74.00
                                   C-PHARE
 1. Replacement of equipment at interlocking stations                    6.90     26.00      32.90     79.00
 2. Track material                                                       9.60     29.20      38.80     75.00
 3. Print Shop                                                           0.30       1.10      1.40     79.00
 4. Technical Assistance                                                 0.40       1.70      2.10     81.00
      Base Costs                                                        17.20     58.00      75.20     77.00
      Contingencies                                                      3.20     11.60      14.80      0.00
      Total Project costs (C)                                           20.40     69.60      90.00     77.00
      GRAND TOTAL BASE COSTS (A+B+C)                                   101.60     218.30     319.90    68.00
      TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                                               19.20     43.90      63.10      0.00
      GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C)                                              120.80     262.20     383.20    68.00


¹The local component financed by SNCFR includes: local materials and installations, custom duties (15%) and
value added tax (VAT of 18%).

The table shows that infrastructure modernization and rehabilitation required the most financing. Attention
is directed, however, to the substantial IBRD funding of telecommunications network and the Integrated
Railway Information System (IRIS) which were to play a significant role in the implementation of the
World Bank project and its supervision--and which now have a central role as the technical and physical
backbones of the entire railway restructuring process. It is even more important to note that neither IRIS
nor the infrastructure modernization and rehabilitation, as important as they are, cannot replace the concept
of restructuring and the process of how it was carried out. This will be discussed later in detail.

The large IBRD/EBRD/PHARE project of US$383 million is only a part of the railway investment that
was made during the implementation of the World Bank supported project. The total picture is in table 2. It
shows that the total investment was app. US$2 billion of which the World Bank loan was approximately
6.5 percent. An important fact in this context is that the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism
(MTCT), its General Directorate of Railways, and the PMU coordinated and implemented all these
projects.




                                                         - 3 -

                                                  Table 2
                           The Main Railway Projects in Romania 1997 - 2003
                                               Total
   No.          Financial Institution         amount                         Main Objectives
                                             (USD mn)
   1     IBRD                                     120.0   Track machinery, IT, Telecom
   2     EBRD                                      72.6   Rolling stock (Freight and Passenger)
   3     PHARE                                     69.6   Interlocking, track materials
   4     ISPA                                     429.0   Lines rehabilitation
   6     JBIC                                     314.0   Line rehabilitation:
                                                          (i) Fetesti-Constanta
                                                          (ii) Locomotives rehabilitation
   7     EUROBONDS                               144.00   Freight rolling stock
   8     COMMERCIAL BANKS                         60.00   Railways stations modernization
   9     ROMANIAN GOVERNMENT                     655.50   Local contribution



3.4 Revised Components:
The components did not change during implementation, the exception was the dropping of the Catenary
Tensioning Machine and reallocation of that money to the IT and telecom components. This change was
entirely consistent with the broad aim of the project and, in fact, helped keep it on focus. The final figures
are in annex 2.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project, especially its institutional component was complex and
prepared in great detail.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the project were fully achieved. The Project contributed to a major restructuring of the
Romanian Railway industry. The following reforms have taken place:

   l A new Railway Law was enacted creating the appropriate legal environment for the railway
        industry in Romania.
   l The Romanian Railway has been restructured through a series of evolutions to increase efficiency,
        to respond to the market demands and to meet the requirements of European Integration (more of
        this below).
   l Most non-core railway activities have been privatized.
   l Many Railway physical facilities such as stations and switching terminals have been rationalized.
   l The staff has been reduced from 137,139 in 1996 to 72,744 in 2003.


The restructuring that has taken place went beyond what was, and could have been, envisioned during
project preparation and at appraisal. The diagram on the next page shows graphically the transformation of
the Romanian Railways that occurred during the duration of the project. The diagram also explains the
complex sequence of events that has taken place.




                                                     - 4 -

           Project Start

                  1996       1997             1998     2000      2002       2003    2004     2007 EU


        RESTRUCTURING & PRIVATIZATION

                                                                        Private Freight
                   137,139                                                    Operators



                            Number


                                  ofEmployees
                                                         Freight        MARFA


                                                                                     Subsidiaries




                                                         Mgmt. Services              Subsidiaries


                                                                                         Local
                                                                                         Railways


                          SNCFR                          Infrastructure       CFR

                                                                                       Interoperable Core
                                                                                        Railway Network
                                                              Surplus
                                                               Assets

                                                                        72,744
                                                Passenger
              Project Objective:
              Support & Deepen The
              Restructuring of The
              Railways

                                                             Passenger  CALATORI




A few paragraphs are in order about the diagram, about the political economy's effects on the railway
restructuring, and about the learning experience in railway restructuring the figure portrays. In the initial
reorganization the management services, including financial management, were centralized to one company
(SMF). This enabled easier oversight from the Ministry over all the railway companies. As the railway
companies grew more comfortable in the new market-oriented environment and assumed greater managerial
freedom SMF's usefulness to them became less and the companies wanted to have full control of their
financial services.      This decentralization of managerial services, not envisioned at the start, was
accomplished in 2002.

The Railways had a significant amount of surplus and obsolete rolling stock (Wagons and Locomotives). A
dramatic decrease in volumes of traffic, together with a change in the types of traffic that was emerging in



                                                         - 5 -

the new Romanian economy made this surplus even larger. In order to focus the disposal activity, a
Surplus Asset Disposal Company (SAAF) was created to maximize the return from the sale of these assets.
The proceeds from this activity were used to recapitalize and modernize the remaining active fleet used by
the Railways. SAAF's mission was completed when the bulk of the surplus and obsolete assets were
disposed of.    Consequently it was liquidated, and the continuing activity of any asset disposal was
transferred to the infrastructure company (CFR).

Throughout the project implementation the railways operated in a difficult economic environment. The
railways were not the only entity that needed to be restructured; the entire Romanian economy needed to be
restructured and most industries laid of staff in large numbers. For this reason, the orderly staff reductions
at the railways were a remarkable accomplishment.

Another noteworthy item is the emergence of the private freight operators, predicated on the "open access"
doctrine of the EU. Traditionally, the freight operator, Marfa, had subsidized the passenger services.
Calatori provided substantial passenger services, commuter, regional and inter-city. The Government was
unable to pay for the full cost of the Public Service Obligations (PSO) for rail passenger service and Marfa
cross-subsidized these services. This caused the track access charges (TAC) to be much higher for Marfa
than Calatori, but it also reduced Marfa's competitiveness in the market place and reduced CFR's income to
maintain the track and pay for the social taxes of its staff. This difficult equation is not yet fully solved,
although the solution is known and being implemented. Marfa's competitive position was further weakened
by the taken-for-granted services to large, but cash-poor SOEs, or even private enterprises, whose
payments for transport services were delayed or bartered, or simply uneconomic. The behavioral change to
money-based transactions and commercial marketing and management was not pulled off easily--and not
yet fully completed.

Because the passenger services required substantial subsidies, the (former) Government divided the
passenger railways into nine different companies, eight for short-haul regional services and one for
long-haul international and inter-city services. The idea was that the local governments would pick up the
subsidy payments as none was needed for the long haul services. This solution did not work out, and the
(new) Government reversed it.

Nonetheless, these experiments served a useful purpose, and all parties, including the lenders learnt from
them. The railway restructuring process, coordinated by the Ministry's General Directorate for Railway
Transportation, never lost focus in spite of the difficult economic environment and behavior patterns deeply
ingrained in the management culture. At critical points the Bank supervision team played an instrumental
role to keep the process on track.

The diagram does not convey the remarkable impact that IRIS and the telecom network had, and continue
to have, on focusing the railways' restructuring. Among the many things IRIS allows is the centralized
management -- typical to railway technology -- of trains, infrastructure and rolling stock. This has
permitted privatization of non-core activities, and reorganization of core-activities. The former is about
completed, and parts of the latter are in advanced planning stages.

One feature of this is the creative way the Romanian railways has approached the EU requirement for open
access and interoperability, both of which can be costly in terms of infrastructure quality and regulation.
The Romanian Railways have an excess of (line) track. However, reducing the railway track by means of
abandonment is politically very difficult in any country. The approach adopted and accepted in the
Ministry is to divide the railway track into two parts: interoperable and non-interoperable. The former, 65
percent of the total, would be consistent with EU regulations and standards, the latter 35 percent would be



                                                      - 6 -

sold or given to private entrepreneurs or local governments or abandoned. This approach would enable
development of the successful short-line railways, feeding the main railways, common in North America.
The benefits from this operation will be substantial in terms of further reorganization of the railways, staff
reductions, maintenance and regulation costs--and benefits to shippers.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Track Renewal, Maintenance Equipment and Track Maintenance on Priority Routes (38% of the loan)
was implemented as planned and on schedule. Acquisitions in this component included: switch tamping
machines, dynamic track stabilizers, ballast cleaning machines, multipurpose machines, track recording
car, switches, long rail transport wagons, rail positioning equipment, railway bridge maintenance
equipment, and small track maintenance equipment.

The Integrated Railway Information System (28 % of the loan) was implemented as planned. However,
the Bank induced rebidding of this highly complex component caused a delay of 18 months and necessitated
project extension. IRIS is a very sophisticated Railway Information System that aims to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of all Railway operations. It consists of four subsystems:

   l Railway Infrastructure Management is an up-to-date data base of the railway physical plant and
         serves the management in the control of maintenance of all the railway infrastructure

   l Rolling Stock Management is a continuously and automatically updated data base of all
         locomotives and wagons and serves the railway management in the planning of maintenance and
         repairs of all rolling stock

   l Train Circulation System is a real time system that displays the status of all trains circulating on
         the railway. It is used by the railway operators to optimize the movement of trains on the system.

   l Freight Operations and Commercial Management System is also a real time system that
         monitors all freight movements, controls all switching activities in the stations, the administration
         of commercial contracts, and the bills of lading for all rail shipments. It is used by the freight
         operations companies to optimize service to the customers.

The development of all the above four subsystems of IRIS have been completed and the systems are now in
various stages of installation. Some initial benefits of the system are being realized. Obviously IRIS will
have a profound impact on how the railways are managed and requires behavior changes from both
management and staff. The system is made available for a fee to the private operators as well.

The Telecommunications Upgrade (32% of the loan). The objective of this component was to improve the
capacity and the reliability of the internal railway communications infrastructure, and to provide the data
transmission network required to support IRIS. The project supported the installation of 3530 km of
optical fiber on the backbone network of the railway, 60 Siemens High Capacity Switches were installed to
form the backbone ATM Network; 224 switches of different capacities were installed to form the backbone
ISDN Network; LANs (Local Area Networks) were installed.               The entire communications network
infrastructure required to support IRIS implementation and operation is in place. The telecom network also
supports all railway communications.

Equipment for Environment (1 % of the loan). To improve the environment at priority sites, measurement
equipment and control instruments for selected depots were acquired and installed.




                                                     - 7 -

Technical Assistance (1 % of the loan). The following support was provided:

   l Point-to-Point Costing model. A Canadian based costing model was installed in the Romanian
        Railway to support the efforts to develop specific costs of different types of traffic. This model
        assists both the passenger and freight railways in deciding on tariffs and what shipments to accept
        or reject based on their costs to the operator. The model also can assist in understanding the
        determinants of a differentiated Track Access Charge and in determining the railway line segments
        that are profitable.

   l Management Training. The project supported the following technical support and management
        training activities for railway restructuring and as a means of introducing a commercial approach
        to the management of the railways:

             1. Human resources management including a study tour for environmental protection at the
                 railways.
             2. Consultancy support for restructuring the SNCFR, the original railway entity.
             3. A two-day seminar for all senior and middle management in April 2002 given by
                 prominent railway experts.
             4. A one month training program in 2003 for fifty (50) railway managers from the three
                 railway companies (CFR, Marfa, and Calatori) representing different railway regions.
                 This program, given by a Railway Consultancy company, focused on the changes in
                 management culture required to run a railway as business in a market driven economy as
                 opposed to simply running a railway.
             5. A study tour to the UK and Canada for fifteen (15) senior managers to experience
                 firsthand the results of railway restructuring in those two countries.
             6. A substantial training component embedded in the IRIS contract.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project financial rate of return was not estimated at project appraisal and therefore no comparison is
possible. However, given the broad scope of the project and the importance of the railway's financial
situation on its future, the railway's financial performance during project implementation is elaborated at
length in this section. The supporting tables are in Annex 9.

The financial projections for the period 1995-2000 for the Romanian National Railways (SNCFR) were
prepared based on the traffic forecast, operational targets and staffing levels of the agreed Restructuring
Action Plan (RAP). The financial targets for 2000 set in the RAP were: (i) working ratio (operating costs
excluding depreciation/operating revenue excluding government subsidy for capital expenditure) not
exceeding 100%; and (ii) debt service coverage ratio (total sources from operations including government
subsidies/debt service) of 1.5 or higher. These targets were closely monitored. The working ratio target
was met, and the debt service coverage ratio was effectively met.            The target outcomes at project
completion mirror, however, a much different world than was assumed during project preparation. The
financial numbers alone do not reveal the rich and knotty story, told next, as they evolved during the
project.

Traffic volume suffered a sharp reduction during project implementation. The SAR emphasized the
uncertainties surrounding traffic forecasts in the economic and political circumstances of the time. There



                                                      - 8 -

was optimism, however, and the assumption was made that freight traffic would remain at the 1995 level as
a result of an active market-based approach and customer orientation, and specialized international
operations such as transshipment through Constanza to Black Sea ports and inter-modal operations with
Western Europe. Passenger traffic was expected to decline marginally because of the growing car
ownership and the potential competition of private buses. The financial performance targets were set
assuming that both freight and passenger traffic remain constant during project implementation.

Between 1995 and 1997, the closure of coal mines led to a sharp reduction of freight traffic, while the rapid
fall in passenger traffic resulted from reduced purchasing power of the population due to macro-economic
instability and very high inflation, which in 1997 reached an annualized rate of 300%. The decline in
production in the traditional sectors, such as heavy industries and mining, was reflected in traffic volumes,
which declined over 35% between 1995 and 2000. Traffic continued to decline by another 15% in
2000-2002, resulting in a 45% drop during project implementation. This outcome was much different than
what was assumed in the SAR. The rail share in freight market (in terms of ton-km) went down
significantly from 70% in 1994 to 40% in 2001. During the same period the share of the passenger traffic
(in terms of passenger-km) remained at 40-50% of the intercity passenger services market. While passenger
traffic continued to decline in 2003, freight traffic is stabilizing at the 2002 level and is expected to recover
lost traffic gradually in view of the improving macro-economic situation and increased production. The
ongoing modernization of the rolling stock with the proceeds of the recent Eurobonds, and the integrated
railway information system to manage daily railway operations efficiently will also improve the
competitiveness of the railways. The state's freight company (MARFA) is facing competition from private
operators (now 12 in the market), and its rates and services will need to be competitive with the private
operators'. The private operators could weaken the financial viability of MARFA by "cherry picking",
although their current market share is negligible.

Over the period 1995 to 2002, the average unit revenue (in lei) for freight increased 23 fold, about 20%
above inflation for the period; the passenger revenue increased about 47 fold, well above the inflation. The
average unit revenue increased from US$0.016 to US$0.022 for freight and from US$0.006 to US$0.017
for passenger services. Thanks to these increases, the impact of reduced traffic on revenues has been much
less important and the total traffic revenue for 2002 remained at the 1995 level despite the 45% decline in
traffic. The freight traffic accounts for about 70% of total traffic revenues and total traffic units (ton-km +
passenger-km) and covers all its costs.

Since the 1998 reorganization, the Government has provided about US$150 million annually in PSO
compensation. The passenger fare box revenues cover 40% of the costs, with the budgetary support for
PSO covering about 50% of the costs. The remaining 10%, the unfunded costs, is one of major causes of
the unsatisfactory financial situation of the railways. Under the Transport Restructuring Project, now
under preparation, the system of PSO would be refined further so that only those obligations deemed
essential and affordable by the State budget are retained in the PSO contract between the Government and
the operating company and other services be terminated.

Staff has been reduced by almost 50% from about 141,000 in 1995 to about 74,000 in 2003. This was
accomplished by voluntary separations and by separating 34 non-core activities of the railway companies
and establishing them as subsidiaries. As of end-September 2003, 16 subsidiaries were privatized and 9
more are expected to be sold by 2004. The remaining 9 subsidiaries will eventually have a total staff
strength of about 4,000. As a result, labor productivity has improved from 277,000 Traffic Units
(TU)/employee in 2002 to 313,000 TU/employee (average) and 340,000 (year-end), close to the target of
360,000. This compares with about 700,000 TU in Western Europe, 450,000 TU in Poland, and 200,000
TU in Bulgaria.


                                                       - 9 -

Operating costs have declined only slightly from US$940 million in 1995 to US$920 million in 2002,
despite significant staff reduction and the corresponding salary savings. Total labor cost decreased from
47% of total revenue in 1998 to 23% in 2002. Since the reorganization, all the separated railway
companies have significantly increased expenditures for maintenance to reduce the backlog in deferred
maintenance. The operating cost per traffic unit (excluding track access fees) doubled from US$0.02 in
1995 to US$0.04 in 2002. Consequently, on the downside, the cost of operations and public service
obligations and the dependence of the railways on the Government continue to remain high. On the upside,
the railway network and services (in particular for passengers) have not yet been adjusted to the reduced
demand. These actions will provide cost savings once they are implemented.

The staff reductions and labor cost cuts, and a significant increase in the budget support have decreased the
net deficits of the railway as a whole during the project implementation period, from US$214 million in
1995 to US$44 million in 2002. Currently the Government PSO compensation and other subsidies amount
to about 0.7% of GDP. The targeted working ratio of 100% (including PSO compensation but excluding
subsidy for infrastructure maintenance) has been met, but there was underperformance for the debt service
coverage ratio (target:1.5 times).

During the project implementation, the passenger services incurred over 90% of the losses in the railway as
a whole. The principal reason was the unreasonably high, noncompetitive and uncompensated level of
passenger services. The remaining 10% of the losses was incurred in the Infrastructure Company, mainly
from the unfunded high maintenance cost of a too large railway network relative to travel demand. The
financial gaps were covered by accumulating arrears to the State social taxes. At end-June 2003, these
arrears increased sharply to US$280 million for the Infrastructure Company and US$34 million for
Calatori.

The Government has recently issued an ordinance to forgive a part of accumulated liabilities to the state for
selected loss-making state-owned enterprises. Under this program, the outstanding arrears of the two
railway companies in various taxes and social contributions would be paid back in monthly installments in
2004-2006, while the accumulated interest and penalties would be forgiven. It is of interest that, at the
time of 1998 restructuring, the accumulated tax arrears of US$600 million were placed at the SNCFR --
which was placed at dormancy-- to create viable commercial railway companies for infrastructure, freight,
and passenger operations. The EU directive 91/440 of July 29, 1991 mandates member states to set up
appropriate mechanisms to help reduce the indebtedness of a publicly owned or controlled railway. At
end-2002, SNCFR has been able to reduce over 80% of the old tax arrears using the money collected from
old receivables.

In sum, substantial progress has been made in financial restructuring of the Romanian Railways, which is,
if not the essence, the key to successful railway restructuring. Some undesirable legacies of the past remain
and negatively affect the financial well-being of the railways. In this respect, the main challenges facing the
railway are: (i) reduction of the railway network to include only economically viable segments and services;
(ii) further reduction of the number of employees; (iii) reassessment of the maintenance and safety
standards; (iv) freedom from political interference in railway management and service provision; (v) private
sector participation in core railway activities; (vi) implementation of fair and competitive track access
charges; and (vii) establishment of a revised regulatory regime. All these issues are well-known to the
Railway Management in Romania and all of them are in various stages of readiness for implementation
once the political and technical windows are favorable. The proposed Transport Restructuring Project,
together with the PAL program, will help the Government and the Railways tackle the above issues to
complete the transformation of the Romanian railways into financially viable entities and establish
regulatory competence for multiple operator market.



                                                    - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project on Romania's railway sector was nothing short of
remarkable. The railways are EU compatible and in restructuring ahead of many EU member countries.

As shown in the diagram on page 5, the industry has evolved from a single monolithic State Railway
(SNCFR) into a series of market-focused companies. Non-core business have been spun off through a
series of subsidiaries, most of them have been privatized, and the remaining will be privatized in 2004.
Private Freight companies are now sharing the same track and competing with the state owned freight
operator. The Infrastructure Company is being reorganized into a High Density Interoperability segment,
and a Low Density Branch line segment that will be a candidate for privatization and rationalization. The
State owned freight company is now being prepared for privatization.

The Bank encouraged and supported the above evolution through carefully organized Project reviews and
supervision -- and in case of IRIS more frequent supervision by a recognized expert -- and by organizing
well-timed railway restructuring workshops, and management training programs.                 Importantly, the
institutional development would not have been possible without an able and knowledgeable counterpart
management, well-managed project implementation unit, and interested key managers who were responsible
for making things happen.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of the government or the implementing agency had effects on project on-time
completion. One year delay to the project was caused by the World Bank's rejection of the contractor
initially selected for the IRIS system, forcing a re-bid of the entire IRIS system. This was a very complex
issue and opinions differed, and still differ, whether a right decision was made. After the contract was
signed a further nine month delay to IRIS was caused by technological change and the need to switch from
certain obsolete hardware and software suppliers. Both of these delays effectively delayed the entire project
because IRIS was on the project's critical path for the duration of the project.

There also was a delay in the procurement of the Track Geometry Car due to the complexity of the Vehicle,
difficulty in finalizing the technical specifications of the vehicle and finally determining the responsiveness
of the bids and evaluating them. This however did not affect the project's outcome nor was it a major
factor in the delays for project completion.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government did what it said it was going to do: restructure and reorganize the railways. This was a
commitment that was kept even though there was a change in the political power. The financial situation of
the railways, detailed in section 4.4, was a worry to the task team -- probably more than to the government
or the implementing agency. There was an apparent and persistent cash crunch. The PSO payments to
Calatori and the payments to CFR for maintaining the public infrastructure were insufficient, and the
railways had huge investment needs. Nonetheless, during the project, the restructuring process advanced
and the new structure became established. New management practices were adopted, and the infrastructure
and rolling stock were modernized. These activities continue.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were two main positive factors that were material to project implementation. The implementing
agency had a broadly defined vision what it wanted to accomplish and this was backed up with diligent
project management. There were numerous difficulties, often highly nuanced with political considerations



                                                      - 11 -

in a difficult macroeconomic situation. To overcome these difficulties, and to manage in spite of them,
required patience, perseverance, and tact. This the implementing agency, or the managers above it, and the
project management unit had.

Many of the difficulties hovered around IRIS because it, besides being complex to implement, also required
substantial changes in the way the railway companies operated and were managed. A holdup of three
months in both the IRIS and the Telecommunications components was caused by the difficulties of the
Railway securing the hard currency required to pay customs duties on the imported hardware for both.
Later, IRIS implementation was delayed due to problems in completing the necessary physical modification
to the Local Area Network at the Railway headquarters facilities. To sort out these financially-tinged issues
required much time from all affected interests.

The financial situation at the Railways, discussed above and detailed in section 4.4, was a constant worry
of the task team and at least some in the implementing agency. However, the implementing agency could
not do much to reverse the declining demand, which was driven by the macroeconomic situation and the
low disposable income of the people. For the better part of the project there was a losing battle to achieve
the project's targets for productivity, staff reduction, working ratio and debt service ratio, and, at the same
time, keep implementing the project components.              As it turned out, the targets were achieved,
approximately, which was a huge accomplishment given the extraordinary and totally unanticipated decline
in demand. [One might take issue of whether the debt service coverage ratio of 1.1 is close to the target of
1.5. Suffices it to say that the "industry standard" for the debt service ratio is well below 1.0 in ECA. A
ratio of 1.1, achieved in Romania, does more than cover the debt payments and is a respectable figure. It is
not out of place to claim that the target figure of 1.5 was an ill-considered target in the circumstances
prevailing in mid 90s in Romania, and, perhaps, should have been revised downward as the events
unfolded. On the other hand, given the project objective, the project's conflicting targets and the unrealized
assumptions, and the political economy of the country, the specific target of 1.5 had little effect on project
implementation. But, the concept of pushing the debt service ratio above 1 and closer to 1.2 did have an
effect, and was part of a comprehensive financial and technical restructuring of the railways. It is a decent
accomplishment].

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project was fully disbursed. There were no substantial cost overruns. The counterpart funds were
generally available, except as noted above in Section 5.3, in the second paragraph. The Catenary
Tensioning Car was not procured because it was deemed unnecessary and the funds were used for IRIS'
technological improvements and training, and for completing the telecom network.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of this project is highly likely. The reason simply is that the changes are embodied in the law,
the privatization's and staff reductions that have been carried out are irreversible, the investments made in
the project are permanent and in use and yield steady benefits, and the management of the Railways has
improved. The Romanian Railways have been irrevocably transformed. Furthermore, the next steps are
well-thought out, their planning is advancing rationally, and there simply are not any important issues on
which there is substantial disagreement.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition to regular operations is needed. The railways have continued to operate regularly, but they
do so in a different way.


                                                      - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank staff carried out the Project preparation in a professional manner. The Project preparation took
into consideration the Romanian Governments objective of establishing a new legal and institutional
framework for the Romanian Railway industry. It recognized and responded to the need for upgrading the
Railways' technological base to meet the emerging market demands both in terms of infrastructure
improvements and management information systems. In retrospect, if there is a caveat to this praise, it
concerns the Restructuring Action Plan, an integral element of the project. This plan was too detailed and
could not be followed as the events unfolded in reality. It also was internally inconsistent--a productivity
target, a staff reduction target, and a demand "target" could not all be satisfied when the demand declined
much more than anticipated. One, the productivity target, would have been enough. On the other hand, the
RAP did enumerate the key issues needing attention. But, again, responses to issues in the real world are
much different and more complicated from responses to issues as they appear on a spreadsheet.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the Project was Highly Satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out on a regular
basis, normally twice a year, with competent professional staff.             At a critical period of IRIS
implementation, supervision was intensified and took place every three months; this change in frequency
was an important intervention. All of the project components were completed and implemented according to
the original intentions and goals.

As will be discussed in Section 8, the project supervision activity became much broader than the review of
progress on each component. The World Bank team played an important role in the discussions of the legal
and institutional reforms in the Railway sector and how these were integrated into daily railway operations
and management.

Training Programs and Executive Workshops were organized to expand the understanding of railway
reform issues, and to present models from other countries that had proven to be successful.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Overall Bank Performance was Satisfactory, given the complexity of the project, its economic and
social environment, and Romania's macroeconomic situation.          All the components of the loan were
completed, including the significant restructuring of the Romanian Railways that was achieved during the
duration of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was integrally involved in project preparation; it was the Borrower's vision and project.
Specific components were defined to upgrade the track maintenance equipment, to modernize the Railways'
telecommunications infrastructure, and, especially, to design a state-of-the-art integrated Railway
Information System to facilitate the Borrower's goal of the Railways' restructuring.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Romanian Government, the Ministers of Transport and the General Directorate of Railways have
taken all the necessary steps to create the legal and institutional framework for a restructured railway
industry in Romania. They have supported very tough adjustment and retrenchment decisions that were
necessary to reduce the Railways' physical and human resources to match the market demand.



                                                    - 13 -

They have, and are continuing to address the need for an open access and equitable access fee for all
licensed, private railway operators, as well as a need for Public Service Obligations for uneconomic
Government supported social transport services.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The responsibility for the Project changed from SNCFR (The Romanian Railway) to the CFR (The
Infrastructure Company) after the project was initiated. During the span of the project, the Bank had to
deal with different configurations of the Railway companies to address the Railway reform objectives.

Overall, the Railways responded in an effective way to the changing economic and legal framework in
Romania. Organization changes and staff levels were adjusted as necessary and possible to respond to the
realities in the Market place.

The Railways' appointed excellent managers for each of the project components. These 'component
managers' received support from the organization, and each component was managed in a very professional
manner.

The Project Management Unit (PMU) did an excellent job of coordinating all the procurement and
disbursement activities associated with the loan and keeping the project on schedule and target. Project
records were updated on a current basis, and reports were produced on time. The PMU coordinated the
agendas and the organization of the World Bank Supervision Missions in a very effective manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance was Highly Satisfactory. All project components were completed as
planned. The Railway reform has gone beyond what was foreseen at the time of project preparation and
the Borrower evolved and responded to new requirements and circumstances as they emerged.

8. Lessons Learned

The objective of the loan was to support and to deepen the Railway restructuring process in Romania. The
conditionality of the loan required the creation of a legal and institutional framework under which the
restructuring process would continue. This shaped a partnership relationship with the Government, the
Railways and the Bank that had a major influence on the reforms beyond the scope of the loan, and beyond
the specifics of each of the components that it financed. Lesson:

  l The partnership in the loan -- in this case between the Government, the Railways, and the Bank --
        bestows upon the Bank a greater responsibility than simply monitoring progress of the lending
        program and the progress on each of its components. Through the interaction with the Ministry of
        Transport and the Executive Management of the Railway, the Bank staff needs to understand the
        changing (Railway) environment and share in the development of strategies to ensure the overall
        success of the Railway reform.

The evolution of the Romanian economy, and the Romanian government's drive to join the EU, created
forces within the transport sector that were not foreseen at the time of project preparation. The Railway and
the Bank needed to adjust and coevolve to keep in step with these new developments. Hence:

   l In projects with significant institutional development or restructuring objectives, the supervision
         missions need to become review and consultation meetings that go beyond the project components,



                                                    - 14 -

       to guide the process towards the shared objectives between the client and the Bank. The Bank team
       can encourage and assist the Borrower's (Railway in this case) Management team to make the
       though decisions to continue with the necessary reform programs, while at the same time building
       support for such actions at the Government level.

  l The Bank and Railway partnership, in restructuring projects, needs to address the details of a
       project's components only when needed, but when this is necessary, do so exceptionally. The
       Integrated Railway Information System (IRIS) was one of the most complicated and extensive
       Railway information System ever developed. The risk of failure was extremely high. The Bank
       recognized this early in the review and supervision process, and increased the consultations and
       reviews on this component and its supporting telecommunications component to every three months
       in order to provide the expertise it required to avoid the many pitfalls that could have derailed that
       complex component. However, many components in this loan progressed satisfactorily without
       much oversight.

There are two other general lessons:

  l The Borrower does best the coordination of several projects and several lenders. This lender/donor
       coordination is a valuable learning experience and should not be overtaken by the Bank. The
       present project was implemented amidst many other projects; recall that the Bank loan was 6.5
       percent of the total railway investments during its implementation period. The Bank team was
       informed of these other projects. While this knowledge of other projects was useful to the Bank
       team, it remained focused on the Bank project's objective and left the coordination to the Borrower
       because it is the Borrower who is in the best position to judge when and how specific interventions,
       often having a broad scope, are possible and should be made. However, the Borrower should
       discuss the content of these interventions with the lenders before undertaking them.

  l Restructuring projects need not and should not be planned in detail far in advance. What is
       important are the Mission Statement and the Mandate. The mission statement should have the
       following three parts: (i) a brief description of the issues; (ii) the strategic approach directions how
       the entity will approach, deal with, or solve those issues; and (iii) why this (new or restructured)
       entity is the right one to deal with handle the issues. The Mission Statement out of the way, the
       mandate expresses the government's intentions for the entity and its rights and responsibilities. It
       details the objectives of the entity, the Railways in this case, the freedoms entrusted with the
       management, time horizon of specific actions, and how the government plans to exercise its
       oversight function. If appropriate, the mandate should also spell out the subsidy policy as clearly
       as possible. Once there is an Agreement on the mission statement and the mandate that is sufficient
       at project preparation. The context of restructuring is likely to change once the work gets
       underway. Supervision is the right time for the details of the project's policy and institutional
       components, not in preparation to plan them outside the context. If there is a change in government,
       like there was in Romania, or other good reasons, the mandate and the mission statement should be
       reviewed and revised if necessary. If there are specific targets, they should be reviewed and revised
       from time to time, without compromizing the overall restructuring and other project objectives.
       This approach to project preparation will save costs and lead to quicker and better project
       implementation that can take advantage of the windows as they open.




                                                    - 15 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                 ROMANIA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 39760)
                               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       BORROWER CONTRIBUTION

    I. Loan Overview

    IBRD loan no. 3976-RO (USD 120.000.000), together with EBRD loan no. 438 (USD 68.585.644),
    EIB loan no. 1.7521 (EUR 200.000.000) and PHARE grant no. 9604 (EUR 58.000.000) jointly formed
    the foreign financing for the Romanian Railways Rehabilitation Project.

    The IBRD loan was distributed almost equally among 3 main tasks: the track renewal program (38%
    out of the total loan), the upgrading of signaling and telecommunication project (32%) and IRIS (28%);
    the other components (environmental equipment, training and technical assistance) representing, all
    together, only 2%.

    Part A ­ Track Renewal and Maintenance on Priority Routes

    From the financial point of view it is the biggest component of the loan. This component was
    parallel-financed by the PHARE grant, out of which rails, fastenings and sleepers have been purchased.
    The IBRD financed only track equipment: switch tamping machines, ballast cleaning machines,
    switches and crossings replacing machines, three long rails transporting trains LRT and three rail
    positioning machines RPM, twelve multipurpose track/road self-propelled machines, track & catenary
    self-propelled recording car, machines of small mechanization for track maintenance, railway bridges
    maintenance devices, dynamic track stabilizer. All the contracts were in due time, completed
    successfully. These machines had a major contribution in both ensuring the maintenance of the railway
    allover needed and providing specialized contribution on the rehabilitation of the line Bucuresti ­
    Brasov (financed out of the EIB loan).

    Part B ­ Integrated Railway Information System (IRIS)

    An important point in implementation of the project was the construction and introduction of integrated
    railway information system of CFR and their communication infrastructure. This project had a two
    stage bidding process, which started on September 1997 and ended on April 1999, when the contract
    was signed. IRIS re-bid demonstrated that for integrated IT projects (including hardware,
    communication, software and services) a single bid package may lead to high project risk estimated by
    the bidders and therefore bid differences of their Bid Prices or Contract Clauses. For the contract
    performance the supplier and the purchaser established dedicated project teams and management. Even
    when the supplier project team was changed in the project tasks, the purchaser managed to keep a
    permanent team involved in the project development and implementation. This was one of the key
    factors that made this project successful. The other one was the Bank constant assistance for the
    purchaser, especially for the critical stages as implementation in defined pilot area, conclusions and
    acceptance from pilot, system hand-over process and IRIS take-over by the railway business.




                                                     - 16 -

IRIS Rollout

1. National Data Transmission Network for Romanian Railways (RENTRAD-CFR)

One of the IRIS objectives was the construction of a modern IT network infrastructure.

RENTRAD-CFR is a private data transmission network for Romanian Railways, with secured and
controlled access. This network is based on 8 regional Gigabit networks, interconnected through
high-speed ATM channels (155Mbit/sec). Each regional level concentrates Sites' Local Area Networks
from railway stations, depots, wagon workshops, other sites. RENTRAD-CFR was designed for
maximum 2700 IRIS users, however there are 2682 users connected on December 3, 2004 distributed
as follows:

    l 74 IRIS users,
    l 174 Oracle Financials users,
    l 1634 other users.


RENTRAD-CFR operates 24 hours, 7 days per week and provides user access to applications, data
transfer, INTERNET and e-mail services.

The network is managed by a Central Management System based on C.A. Unicenter products TNG,
daily incidents being recorded and managed through TNG Central Help Desk. The operational support
is based on one central and 8 regional technical department.

Further Developments:

    l Increase the network capacity for the estimated 10,000 users by the end of 2004.
    l Keep the network technology up-to-date through a long-term modernization plan.
    l Enforce the network security and access control policy.


2. IRIS ­ IMA (Railway Infrastructure Management)

The Railway Infrastructure Management System IRIS-IMA is operational since February 2003 for
three management levels Railway Headquarter, Regional Headquarters (Track and Installation
Operational Divisions and all the Operations and Maintenance Sections of CFR (122 Railway
Maintenance Sections).

The IRIS-IMA system allows the users to:

    l Hold detailed infrastructure elements inventory, by railway domains (track, installations,
          real-estate, telecommunications)
    l Manage the inspections and current maintenance works (technical details, materials,
          manpower)
    l Manage the maintenance costs and keep their history.
    l The Romanian Railways specialists added new functionality to the contracted packages, to
          manage the Installation incidents and Track speed restrictions.

Further Developments:

Implementation of the interface between IRIS-IMA and Financial Management System based on Oracle
Financials Applications.




                                                - 17 -

3. IRIS-Circulation (Train Circulation Monitoring)

IRIS-Circulation is operational since 31 December 2003, on the Pan-European Corridor IV (Curtici ­
Constanza). Between July and December 2003 there were more than 800 users trained. A WEB based
application was implemented for management users.

Further Developments

A specialized module for Infrastructure Access Fee will be implemented and integrated with the
Financial Management System (based on Oracle Financials Applications) by the end of 2004.

4. IRIS-RSMA (Rolling Stock Management)

IRIS-RSMA system is operational since February 2003 for rolling-stock fleet management and is
currently used by the railway operators "CFR Calatori", "CFR Marfa" and by the Infrastructure
Company "CFR". The IRIS-RSMA database includes the entire Romanian rolling-stock fleet.

The Maintenance Management function of IRIS-RSMA is not fully implemented since the maintenance
activity was outsourced.

Further Developments:

    l IRIS-RSMA system rollout for maintenance activities monitoring.
    l Interface with the Financial Management System based on Oracle Financials Applications.


5. IRIS ­ ARGUS (Freight and Passengers Trains Operation)

IRIS-ARGUS System was implemented since September 2003 on the Pilot Area (Bucuresti ­ Brasov)
and is used in parallel with the old Freight Operations System called BETA. A Migration Plan from
BETA to IRIS-ARGUS will be implemented by the end of 2004.

Further Developments:

    l An Empty Wagons Distribution module will be added to IRIS-ARGUS by the end of 2004.
    l The system will include also the integration with the European Data Transmission Network
         Applications (HERMES Applications) for interoperability purposes.

6. IRIS ­ MERCUR (Freight Commercial Management)

IRIS-MERCUR is operational since September 2003 on the Pilot Area (Bucuresti-Brasov).
Due to a number of organizational and business rules changes the system is not in use yet.

Further Developments

    l The business rules adapted to new market requirements.
    l Interface with the Financial Management System based on Oracle Financials Applications.




                                              - 18 -

IRIS Benefits

    l Consolidated IRIS benefits will be visible by the end of 2004, when the system will be
          operational for the entire Romanian Railways and the integration with the Financial
          Management System based on Oracle Financials Applications will be effective.
    l Early benefits can be, however, identified for this stage.

IRIS General Benefits:

    l Through IRIS Project the Romanian Railways implemented a modern Data transmission
          network, operational for the entire business, providing all the necessary services for its users
          (access to specific applications and databases, file transfers, INTERENET and e-mail).
    l An integrated, standardized and open model for IT support to the Romanian Railways
          business, both for technology and specific business applications.

Benefits for the Infrastructure Company ("CFR")

    l Infrastructure database, as a key instrument for railway infrastructure maintenance and
          operation, already includes more than 450.000 infrastructure elements (track segments,
          signaling, switches, bridges, tunnels, buildings, electrification, utilities, telecommunication),
          with their specific technical and operational data.
    l Infrastructure incident management for railway installations and signaling is operational at the
          infrastructure maintenance sections and regional divisions (operations) and headquarter
          (management).
    l Train Circulation Monitoring is operational for the most important railway path ­ the
          Pan-European Railway Corridor IV (the Romanian part from the Border station CURTICI to
          the Constanta Harbor).
    l IRIS-IMA and IRIS-Circulation integration provides information for speed restrictions and
          Infrastructure Access Fee effective determination.

Benefits for Railway Operators ("CFR Marfa" and "CFR Calatori")

    l Railway Rolling Stock fleet management transferred this responsibility from the Data Center
          (many years responsible for fleet information), directly to the rolling stock owners. This
          significantly increased the business performance for fleet management.
    l IRIS-ARGUS and IRIS-MERCUR are real-time instruments for railway operators core
          business and their benefits will be visible only by the end of 2004.

Part C ­ Upgrading of Signaling and Telecommunication

Out of this part of the project have been financed the acquisition of the fiber optic cables, together with
digital transmission backbone network (DTBN) and integrated services digital network (ISDN). All
these three kinds of contracts have their one specific benefits, but, all together, form the infrastructure
for IRIS, thus being the major benefit.

From the specific benefits, the most important are:

    l the fiber optic cable network covers the whole CFR's territory and offers a safe and flexible
          communication infrastructure, with large interconnection capabilities with other railway
          administration networks, keeping the UIC recommendations concerning quality, technological


                                                  - 19 -

         level and services volume. The complexity and homogenity of the network are the most
         important assets.

    l TBN provides services and support for digital communications. The contract financed the
         acquisition of equipment and accessories for developing the SDH (Synchronous Digital
         Hierarchy) Backbone Network, Access Network and Synchronization Network. There are 550
         points of presence in urban and rural locations all around the country. The access locations are
         in the railway stations, offering an easy interconnection capacity.

    l ISDN is a fully digital network designed for modern and high quality communication services,
         high-speed data transmission and images transmission, including videoconference applications.

II. Final Conclusions

All in all, the project was a success. And this is the result of good cooperation between all the 3 main
"actors" involved:

    l the Bank;
    l the Government;
    l the Borrower (both the company and the PMU).


The Bank contribution was HIGHLY SATISFACTORY because the Bank has used the team working
approach with the Borrower, which was the key of success and full disbursement of the loan.

The Borrower PMU benefited from prompt support and guidance from all TTLs, from Procurement,
from Disbursement, as well as from the railway and IT experts. They helped in drafting specifications
for very complex projects (should be considered at least two major issues: the re-writing of the IRIS
bidding documents within 5 days at the Bank's head-quarter in 1998, and Mr. Pozniak's key
contribution to the IRIS success). The average time spent for consultations with the Bank during
bidding documents preparation, bid evaluation and contracting for each project was of slightly less than
5 months in aggregate. This is not much at all if considering the high risk when having not such a
support.

Another very important area was the professional support of the Bank's staff during the ambitious
restructuring process. As in all other countries of the world, the restructuring proved to be a long
process of reorganization and optimization, which is not yet entirely completed. The World Bank
significantly supported the realization of the railway reform in Romania by establishing, together with
the Borrower, some clearly defined measures to obtain the long-term viability and efficiency. These
measures (all of them have been already implemented and they have a real, positive feed-back) are:

     1. rationalization of the railway network and services and concentration on those services for
         which rail transport has a competitive advantage;
     2. agreement between the Government and the new operating company on the provision of a
         limited amount of non commercial passenger services that should be fully remunerated under
         PSO contracts and ceasing of loss-making services that will not be subject to PSO;
     3. gradual increase of passenger tariffs and parallel investments to enhance the service quality;
     4. autonomy of the operating companies;
     5. establishment of an infrastructure fee reflecting the full economic costs of infrastructure
         provision.


                                                 - 20 -

    The Romanian Government also significantly supported the realization of the railway reform, its
    contribution being HIGHLY SATISFACTORY as well. Its role could be summarized as follows:

        l support in allocating the local financial component for the project;
        l support in implementing very significant restructuring measures:


             -    1996 - separation of accounting for infrastructure and operations, as well as financial
                  support by approving tariff increases;
             -    1998 - reorganization plus beginning of PSO compensations to CFR Passengers and some
                  28.000 employees downsizing;
             -    2003 - cost cutting measures by 18% layoffs.

    It should be also noted that the Ministry of Finance promptly supported the Borrower when extending
    the validity of the Loan Agreement in 2001.

    The Borrower, with its two components, was also had a HIGHLY SATISFACTORY contribution.
    PMU on one hand and the entirely company one the other, made all necessary efforts for the best
    implementation of the project.
    The PMU learned the language of both the Bank and Government and knew how to deal with them,
    which allowed a smooth cooperation among the three main actors in achieving the project objectives.
    The entirely loan amount was successfully used and there were no rejected withdrawals (out of total of
    270).

    The company, by its different departments, made all the efforts to ensure the best local support (in all
    means) for all contracts. This was a key factor that made all the contracts to be successfully finished in
    due time.




(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Staff Productivity (t.u./per         360                                 340
thousand-employees)
 Working Ratio (percentage)          99                                  95
Debt Service Ratio                   1.5                                 1.1




Output Indicators:
                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Network (lines-km)                   10180                               10600
Staff (thousands employees)          92                                  75
Train (million train km)             99                                  95


1End of project
However, with the support of the project and consultants the Railways have identified, 3500 km of network
lines that will be closed down or sold during 2004. This action is supported by the Government.




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Track Maintenance Machines and Materials                    44.00          46.05              115
Integrated Railway Information System                       22.00          33.54              152
Telecommunications Network                                  30.50          38.28              151
Environment Equipment                                        1.00            1.23             123
Consultant Services                                          0.60            0.90              90
Catenary Tensioning Machine                                  1.60            0.00               0
Contingencies                                               20.30            0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        120.00         120.00
                        Total Project Costs                120.00         120.00
                  Total Financing Required                 120.00         120.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         118.10             0.00         1.20         0.00         119.30
                                 (118.10)          (0.00)      (1.20)         (0.00)      (119.30)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.70         0.00          0.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         118.10             0.00         1.90         0.00         120.00
                                 (118.10)          (0.00)      (1.90)         (0.00)      (120.00)




                                                - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                               117.87              0.00              1.23             0.00             119.10
                                         (117.87)            (0.00)            (1.23)            (0.00)          (119.10)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.90             0.00              0.90
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.90)            (0.00)           (0.90)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                               117.87              0.00              2.13             0.00             120.00
                                         (117.87)            (0.00)            (2.13)            (0.00)          (120.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Track Maintenance             44.00        46.00         0.00       46.05         16.49      0.00       104.7     35.8      0.0
Machines and Materials
Integrated Railway            22.00         8.00         0.00       33.54         0.94       0.00       152.5     11.8      0.0
Information System
Telecommunications            30.50         8.20         0.00       38.28         7.34       0.00       125.5     89.5      0.0
Network
Environment Equipment          1.00         0.40         0.00        1.23         0.24       0.00       123.0     60.0      0.0
Consultant Services            0.60         0.40         0.00        0.89         0.01       0.00       148.3     2.5       0.0
Catenary Tensioning            1.60         0.60         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Machine
Contingencies                 20.30        11.80         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/10/1994                6    FIN. ANALYST; ENGINEER;          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST; ENVIRN.
                                             SPECLIALIST; SYSTEMS
                                             ANALYST; PROJECT
                                             OFFICER

 Supervision
              10/18/1996                3    RAILWAY ENGINEER;                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             PROJECT OFFICER
              10/14/1997                5    FIN. ANALYST; SYSTEMS            S               S
                                             ANALYST; TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST; RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST; PROJECT
                                             OFFICER
              11/11/1998                3    RAILWAY SPECIALIST;              S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             PROJECT OFFICER
              04/05/1999                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER;             S               S
                                             RAILWAY SPECIALIST;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              10/01/1999                1    SR.TRANS. ECONOMIST              S               S
              10/01/1999                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER;             S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              06/21/2000                1    TEAM LEADER                      S               S
              12/15/2000                3    SR. EVALUATION OFFICER;          S               S
                                             SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             TRANS. SPECIALIST
              05/25/2001                3    SR.TRANSP. SPECIALIST;           S               S
                                             SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             CONSULTANT
              10/26/2001                3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST;            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             CONSULTANT
              02/15/2002                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST;            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT
              02/15/2002                3    TRANS. SPECIALIST; FINAN.        S               S
                                             ANALYST; CONSULTANT

 ICR
              05/16/2003                3     TRANS. SPECIALIST;              S               S
                                              SR.FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST;
                                              CONSULTANT



                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   NA                      315,197.00
  Supervision                                  NA                      800,337.00
  ICR                                          NA                            NA
  Total                                        NA                    1,115,534.00
The current accounting system no longer gives the detailed breakdowns requested in the above table.




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The programs and presentations on the Railway Management Workshop held in April 2002 and the key
materials for the Leadership Training Program held in 2003 are available in the ECA Transport Web page
[ECA Transport Website:
http://ecaweb.worldbank.org:8080/Transport.nsf (intranet),
http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/ECA/Transport.nsf (internet)]; and
most of them also in IRIS (World Bank).




                                                 - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. [Restructuring Action Plan]

                                  RESTRUCTURING ACTION PLAN
                             OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR IN ROMANIA
                                     FOR THE PERIOD 2001-2003

                                              CONTENTS

A.      Institutional Objectives
B.      Organization and Management
C.      Operations
D.      Marketing
E.      Infrastructure
F.      Traction and Rolling Stock
G.      Human Resources
H.      Investments
I.      Finance
J.      Environment
K.      Implementation and monitoring of the Railway Rehabilitation Project
L.      Implementation of the Restructuring Action Plan of the Romanian railway sector

                                           ABBREVIATIONS

GOR              -       Government of Romania
MTCT             -       Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism
MOPF             -       Ministry of Public Finance
AFER             -       Romanian Railway Authority (state body under MTCT)
SNCFR(f)         -       Former SNCFR (Romanian State Railways)
SNCFR            -       Present SNCFR
CFR              -       National Railway Company (CFR-SA) - Infrastructure
CFR-F            -       Rail Freight Company (CFR Freight-SA)
CFR-P            -       Rail Passengers Company (CFR Passengers-SA)
SAAF             -       Rail Assets Management Company (SAAF-SA)
SMF              -       Rail Management Services Company (SMF-SA)
PMU              -       Project Management Unit
IFIs             -       International Financing Institutions - IBRD, EBRD and EC-PHARE
GO               -       Government Ordinance
GD               -       Government Decision
PSO              -       Public Service Obligation
RAP              -       Restructuring Action Plan
TA               -       Technical Assistance

                                            BACKGROUND

1.    The Railway Rehabilitation Project is financed by IBRD - Loan no. 3976-RO, EBRD - Loan no. 438
(plus a BNP Paribas co-financing loan - ECLAT), and EC-PHARE, on a grant basis. The IBRD, EBRD
and EC-PHARE financing agreements became effective in 1996. The original Borrower/Grantee was
SNCFR(f).



                                                   - 31 -

2.     A Restructuring Action Plan (RAP), covering the period 1995-2000, had been originally prepared
and then agreed between the Banks, the GOR and the Borrower before the loans/grant became effective.
The meeting of the RAP targets is one of the Borrower's obligations. The RAP is reviewed by the Banks,
GOR and Borrower once a year, as stipulated in the Loan Agreements. One of the major issues stipulated
in the original RAP was the restructuring of SNCFR(f).

3.     On October 1, 1998, a major measure of the SNCFR(f) restructuring was implemented: SNCFR(f)
was reorganized into five new and companies, i.e., CFR, CFR-F, CFR-P, SAAF and SMF. SNCFR
continues to exist, but it was awarded a different mission. Subsequently, the original IBRD and EBRD
Loan Agreements have been restructured so as to reflect the new organization of the railway sector in
Romania. The new/amended Loan and Project Agreements were signed on June 28, 1999, and on July 30,
1999, with IBRD and EBRD respectively. The new/amended Loan Agreements took over the
above-mentioned obligation as far as the RAP is concerned.

4.     As a consequence of the SNCFR(f) reorganization, a new RAP was prepared for the period
1999-2001 (December 31, 2001 was the original Loan Closing Date) and then submitted to the two Banks
at the end of June 1999. It was one of the effectiveness conditions for the amended Loan Agreement.

5.     It is recalled that the RAP prepared in 1999 was essentially based on the existing Romanian railway
institutional framework within which the rail companies operate independently, keeping at the same time
the continuity with the former RAP in the following way:

      l the initial RAP structure was kept (i.e., chapters and most of the topics included in the
            attachment to the RAP), but most of the objectives/targets/indices became individual ones (i.e.,
            specific for each of the rail companies); and

      l certain indices in the attachment to the RAP were kept as overall ones                (by adding values
            corresponding to all rail companies) in order to show the evolution of the entire railway sector
            during the referred period (1994-2001). Such indices were:

            (i)    the overall staff productivity (Traffic Unit / thousand employees in all five companies);
            (ii)   the overall productivity index;
            (iii)  the working ratio.

6.     The 1999 RAP was updated and extended over the period 2001-2003. This RAP (version October
2001) was included in the Pre-Completion Report, submitted to the Bank in January 2002.

7.     The present version of RAP updates the period 2001-2002 and the first 10 months of 2003. It covers
the entire period of loan implementation by taking into consideration that the Loan Closing Date was 30
June 2003.




                                                       - 32 -

                                                                RESTRUCTURING ACTION PLAN
                                  OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR IN ROMANIA FOR THE PERIOD 2001-2003
                                                                                  January 2004

NO.                          OBJECTIVES            ACTIONS                                RESPONSIBILITIES     TIME          ACTUAL
                                                                                                               TABLE         (October 2004)
                                                                                                               FOR
                                                                                                               ACTIONS
 1                                     2                             3                               4               5                6

                             A. INSTITUTIONAL OBJECTIVES

                             Main Objective: The strengthening of the institutional framework within which:
                            § therelationshipsbetweenthefiverailcompaniesarebasedoncontracts;
                            § inthisframework,eachofthefiverailcompaniescanpursueitsowncommercialobjectives;
                            § theprivatesectorinvolvementispromoted;
                            § thestatecontributesforthePSOofthepassengerservices,andforthepublicinfrastructure.


                             1. To operate         The railways legislation was           CFR, CFR-P,          Outsourcing   The outsourcing
                             business oriented     adopted in 1998: GO no. 12/1998        CFR-F, MTCT, MOPF    of some non-  process:
                             rail companies the    on the SNCFR(f) reorganization         and GOR              core
                             railways legislation  (ratified by the Law no. 89/1999)                           businesses of CFR-F established
                             should cover:         and GDs from 581 to 585/1998 on                             CFR, CFR-F    7 new branches in
                             operation in a        the establishment of the five new                           and           1999-2001 of
                             commercial            rail companies. Based on this                               CFR-P in      which 4 have been
                             manner including      legislation, the SNCFR(f)                                   2001.         privatized in 2002.
                             freedom to set        reorganization took place on                                              For the remaining
                             tariffs, content and  October 1, 1998. A review of this                                         3 the process in
                             requirement of        legislation and an identification of                                      ongoing.
                             Public Service        privatization opportunities are
                             Obligations (PSO)     among the tasks of the Consultant                                         CFR-P created 5
                             and Government of     providing the Phase 2 of the TA to                                        branches in 2003.
                             Romania (GOR)         the restructuring of the railway                                          All of them have
                             financial support     sector under EBRD financing.                                              been privatized in
                             for infrastructure                                                                              the same year.
                             and PSO and                                                                       Refining of
 OBJECTIVES                  promoting private     Based on the GD 1046/1999 CFR-P                             the           CFR created 11
                             sector involvement    was further divided into one long                           companies'    branches in 2001
                                                   distance passengers railway                                 strategies    (8 of them have
                                                   transport company (further referred                         and business  been privatized in
                                                   to as CFR-P) and 8 regional short                           plans -       2002)
                                                   and medium distance passengers                              ongoing       and 7 others in
                                                   railway transport companies starting                        tasks.        2002 (2 are
                                                   with Jan. 27, 2000.                                                       privatized
           INSTITUITIONAL                          After 1 year, the 8 regional                                              already).
                         A.                        companies merged back to one                                              Of the last group,
                                                   Company, CFR-P.                                                           3 branches (CFR
                                                                                                                             Telecom, CFR-IT
                                                   Strategy of the railway sector up to                                      Center and CFR
                                                   2010 approved by GOR in May                                               Special
                                                   2001. It was submitted to IBRD end                                        Interventions) will
                                                   June 2001 together with financial                                         be kept by the
                                                   projections up to 2005.                                                   company because
                                                                                                                             them activity is
                                                   SMF dissolution on November 2002                                          considered as
                                                                                                                             strategic one. For
                                                   Outsourcing of some non-core                                              the other, the
                                                   businesses of CFR, CFR-F and                                              outsourcing
                                                   CFR-P                                                                     process will
                                                                                                                             continue.




                                                                                       - 33 -

1                                           2                              3                    4                    5                         6
                           2. To identify and agree with       Performance Contracts       CFR, CFR-P,      Performance            Budget support was
                           GOR, CFR's and CFR-P's              were concluded for          MTCT,            Contracts have         established for each
                           performance and expected GOR        four years (1999-2002),     MOPF             been established       year, budget
                           support for a 3-5 year period       between MTCT and                             for each year.         contribution for 2003
                                                               CFR and CFR-P                                The one for year       was approved by low
                                                               respectively, stipulating                    2003 was               507/2003.
                                                               the GOR's contribution                       approved by
                                                               for infrastructure and                       Addendum to the
                                                               PSO respectively. They                       Performance
                                                               were approved by GOR                         Contract no 1220/
                                                               through GD no. 698 of                        3 April 2003.
                                                               August 26, 1999. The
                                                               Performance Contracts
                                                               are to be updated
                                                               annually by including
                                                               the corresponding
                                                               annual budgets of the
                                                               companies.
                           3. To identify privatization        Identification of           CFR-F, CFR,      Ongoing                Beside branches
                           opportunities and prepare           privatization options       CFR-P,                                  privatization (see
                           privatization wherever              for CFR-F and for           SAAF, SMF,                              section A. 1. above)
                           appropriate                         ancillary activities of     MTCT,                                   privatization of CFR-F
                                                               the other rail              MOPF, GOR                               is subject to a separate
OBJECTIVES                                                     companies.                                                          program of GOR.


                           B. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
                           Main Objective: To create and operate business oriented structures, with effective relationships between the rail companies
          UTIONAL          and with government and customers and a management style encouraging responsibility, initiative and decisions at the lowest
                           effective levels and producing efficient business and related investment plans giving satisfactory financial results

                 INSTIT    infrastructure access charge on                                 CFR, CFR-P,      Ongoing task           The implementation of
                       A.  commercial basis                                                CFR-F                                   two IT systems would
                                                                                                                                   be of crucial
                           (i) Improve the current                                                                                 importance: IRIS
                           methodology for the                                                                                     (IBRD financed) - and
                           infrastructure access charge by                                                                         the roll out of the
                           applying commercial principles                                                   Ongoing task           Oracle Financials pilot
                                                                                                                                   system (under the EU
                           (ii) Strengthening of                                                                                   funded TA).
                           departments of statistics (track
                           capacity, traffic data, use of IT,                                                                      Ministry Order 457 /
                           etc.), as well as of cost control                                                                       2002 sets the
                           systems                                                                                                 methodology and tariff
                                                                                                                                   for access charge
                           (iii) Implementation of the
                           improved infrastructure access
                           charge in contracts between
                           CFR and operators, as well as
                           in Performance Contracts with
                           GOR




                                                                                       - 34 -

1                                             2                           3                     4              5                     6
                             2. Strengthening of organization
                             and management of the railway
                             companies to respond to market
                             demands
                                                              Strategy of the railway    CFR, CFR-P,    (i) and (ii) -  Included in companies'
                             (i) Development of market        sector up to 2010          CFR-F, SAAF,   ongoing tasks   strategies. CFR-F
                             strategies and business plans    approved by GOR in         MTCT                           Business Plan for 2002-
                                                              May 2001.                                                 2006 sets the market
                                                                                         CFR, CFR-P,                    targets. Organizational
                                                                                         CFR-F, SAAF,                   structure reconfigured to
                                                                                         MTCT                           allow new marketing
                                                                                                                        tasks to be taken over by
                             (ii) Adaptation of companies'                                              Ongoing         relevant structures
                             internal organization and        Training programs in
                             staffing. Strengthening of       project management         All four rail                  Marketing departments
                             departments for marketing and    were attended by some      companies                      are in place in the
                             relations with consumers.        of the CFR relevant staff                                 relevant railway
                             Provision of economic analysis   (financed out of the                                      companies, at the
 AGEMENT                     capacities                       IBRD loan)                                IRIS and        headquarters and
                                                                                                        Oracle          regional levels
        MAN                                                                                             Financials

           AND               (iii) Development of                                        All four rail
                             management skills                Agreements on the use      companies
                                                              of IRIS and Oracle                                        IRIS contract amended
                             (iv) Development of MIS for all  Financials by all railway                                 to respond to present
                             companies                        companies                                                 demands; the EU funded
                                                                                                                        TA to restructuring -
                                                                                                                        Phase 3 (that includes
              ORGANIZATION                                                                                              Oracle Financials roll
                          B.                                                                                            out); project completed


                             3. Prepare the new operational                              All railway    Review of       Strategy of the railway
                             and financial targets                                       companies      targets for     sector up to 2010
                                                                                                        each year       approved by GOR in
                                                                                                        during the 4th  May 2001.
                                                                                                        quarter of the
                                                                                                        previous year
                             4. Reshape the network including Prepare, implement and     CFR, CFR-P,    Ongoing task
                             the changing of the status of    continuous development     CFR-F,
                             lines, yards and stations.                                  MTCT, GOR
                             Business activity of the rail                               (wherever
                             companies to meet their new role                            appropriate)
                             and objectives




                                                                                      - 35 -

1                                                 2                           3                  4                5                           6
                                 5. Identification of privatization   Identification      All five rail    Ongoing task      Privatization of CFR-F is subject
                                 options and opportunities and        of the              companies,                         to a separate program of GOR.
                                 implementation. Involve the          possibilities       MOPWTH,                            For branches privatization see
                                 private sector in ancillary and      and                 GOR, with TA                       section A. 1. above.
                                 associated activities.               implementation      - Phase 2
                                                                                          restructuring
                                 6. Implement external and            Implementation      CFR, CFR-P,      Ongoing task      All railway companies have
                                 internal audit procedures            of procedures       CFR-F,                             concluded audit contracts with
                                                                                          MTCT                               PriceWaterHouseCoopers.
             MANAGEMENT                                                                   (through                           All companies also formed during
                                                                                          AFER)                              2002 and 2003 them own internal
                       AND                                                                                                   audit compartments.
                                 7. Pursue improvement in             Permanent           CFR, CFR-P,      Ongoing task      - Safety rules permanently updated
                          ORG.   railway safety                       knowledge of        CFR-F,                             and reviewed;
                              B.                                      the                 MTCT
                                                                      requirements        (through                           - Safety-related investment
                                                                                          AFER)                                 programs in infrastructure.


                                 C. OPERATIONS
                                 Main Objective: Identify opportunities by being aware of the transport market in Romania and of the strengths and weaknesses.
                                 Select and develop specific freight and passenger traffic flows to maximize the railway market advantage in terms of volume,
                                 net revenue and customers. Develop and operate railway services to meet these requirements efficiently, economically and
                                 safely.


                                 C.1. FREIGHT SERVICES                                    CFR-F for all
                                                                                          topics under
                                 1. Examine the characteristics of    Study and           C.1                                Implemented starting with May
                                 existing railway freight flows       implementation                                         2000 Timetable.
                                 and identify those which can be      of the results.
                                 developed as trainloads, block       Improvement
                                 loads, container services and        of the traffic
                                 wagon load                           timetable                            Ongoing task
 OPERATIONS                                                                                                                  Preliminary measures already
           C.                    (I) Develop cost structure                                                                  implemented.
                                 methodology for each category
                                 of service and flow including the                                         Ongoing task
                                 appropriate market pricing.
                                                                      Study                                                  Framework contract and
                                 (ii) Determine the necessary                                                                commercial measures are
                                 action plan by customers,                                                                   implemented for major clients.
                                 associated with each freight
                                 traffic flow to achieve mutual
                                 benefits and implement the
                                 actions.




                                                                                               - 36 -

1                               2                      3              4              5                           6
              2. Development of combined        Study and      CFR-F for all Ongoing task      Progressively introduced already,
              transport services                negotiations   topics under                    and continuing.
                                                with           C.1                               · 50 RO-LA inter-modal
                                                customers,                                               wagons started operation
                                                identification                                           under agreements with
                                                of the private                                           European operators.
                                                sector parties
                                                who are                                          · New inter-modal block trains
                                                interested to                                            operated under
                                                invest                                                   agreements with
                                                                                                         European operators.
              3. Maximize fleet efficiency by   Introducing                  Ongoing task      IT software for optimal
              improving the train timetables,   productive                   (expected         locomotive usage under
              including changes in the format   working                      improvement       implementation.
              of the public timetable book      diagrams for                 following IRIS
                                                traction,                    implementation)
                                                rolling stock
                                                and personnel
              4. Increase in operating          Meeting all                  Ongoing task
              efficiency by 2.5%                proposed
                                                operational
                                                targets


              C.2. PASSENGER SERVICES                          CFR-P for all
                                                               topics under

 OPERATIONS   5. Analyze the country's                         C.2           Ongoing task.     The outcome from all market
              passenger market, identifying                                                    analysis performed for the
           C. competition, costs, and prices,                                                  passenger market implemented
              obtaining details about bus, air                                                 starting with 2001-2002 timetable.
              and private car travel. In                                                       More flexible and market-oriented
              addition, segregate the market                                                   tariff system included in the
              into categories and identify                                                     Strategy of the railway sector.
              services financially self-
              supporting and services to be
              provided under national/regional
              PSO contracts

              6. Examine present passenger      Research and                 Upgrading of      PHARE funded contract for an IT
              business including train loading, ongoing                      the PHARE         based train timetable system under
              flows at all stations, service    improvement                  funded IT based   upgrading operations. Future
              pattern, frequency and quality                                 train timetable - improvement following IRIS
              and identify resources needed for                              by April 2002.    implementation.
              a better quality of services

              7. Increase in operating          Meeting all
              efficiency by 2.5%                proposed
                                                operational
                                                targets                      Ongoing task.




                                                                     - 37 -

1                             2                         3                   4                5                             6

             D. MARKETING

             Main Objective: Identify the opportunities open for the rail companies and covering largest possible market shares through
             plans for each segment, major flow and important customer by maximizing at mutual advantages.


             1. Establish marketing structures,  All railways       CFR-F, CFR-       Accomplished       Marketing departments are in place
             including their objectives,         companies          P, CFR, SAAF                         in the relevant railway companies,
             procedures, methodologies, and      created                                                 at the headquarters and regional
             posts, appoint and training staff.  marketing                                               levels. They are working
                                                 departments:                                            continuously to update the clients
                                                 CFR-P in June                                           database, to clearly define market
                                                 2001, CFR-F                                             demands, to identify possible new
                                                 in December                                             markets for the railways
                                                 2002 and                                                companies.
                                                 CFR-SA in
                                                 December
                                                 2003.
             2. Prepare a Business Plan for      Study and          CFR-F, CFR-P      Ongoing task       New tariff policy developed,
             each market segment,                application                                             commercially oriented for different
 MARKETING   commodity type and passenger                                                                customer needs.
          D. group, key freight customers and                                                            CFR-F 2002-2006 BP sets the
             passenger markets and maintain                                                              market targets and provides
             constructive relationships with                                                             specialization measures for
             major customers                                                                             marketing staff.
                                                                                                         CFR-P under an UE TA financed
                                                                                                         contract, developed a BP covering
                                                                                                         the period 2003-2008.
             3. Prepare and administer full      Continual          CFR-F, CFR,       Ongoing task       Implemented starting with
             tariff autonomy system and          actions            SAAF (CFR-P                          February 2000 for CFR-F. New
             pricing policies reflecting cost                       wherever                             passenger tariff system included in
             recovery, commercial principles                        possible)                            the Strategy of the railway sector.
             such as offering discounts in                                                               Contracts signed by CFR with
             contracts                                                                                   different suppliers and
                                                                                                         maintenance and overhaul
                                                                                                         contractors.




                                                                           - 38 -

1                                  2                          3                    4                 5                            6

                  E. INFRASTRUCTURE

                  Main Objective: Maintain and develop track structure, signaling and telecommunications and electric traction systems and
                  maintenance facilities to meet capacity, quality, and reliability. Focus on investments on main lines (European corridors).

                  (a) Civil Engineering                The Strategy
                                                       for the
                  1. 2001-2003 Operational Plan        Railway             CFR                 Ongoing task     Some track machinery and tools, as
                  for track maintenance, including     Sector                                                   well as rails, turnouts and welding
                  track machinery and tools,           between 2001-                                            materials have been already
                  introduction of a new                2010 was                                                 purchased under IBRD and
                  technology, high quality rails,      approved by                                              PHARE financing respectively.
                  turnouts, fastenings and new         GD
                  sleepers                             1003/2001.

                  2. The infrastructure will be        The Strategy        CFR                 Ongoing task     Modernization works on Bucharest
                  improved to progressively ensure     for the                                                  - Campina section of Corridor IV
                  maximum transport speed of 160       Railway                                                  (EIB financing) have been
                  km/h on main lines.                  Sector                                                   finalized in December 2003.
                                                       between 2001-                                            Similar works will start on the
                                                       2010 was                                                 same Corridor as follows:
                                                       approved by                                              Bucuresti ­ Baneasa and Fetesti -
                                                       GD                                                       Constanta section with JBIC
                                                       1003/2001.                                               financing and Baneasa ­ Fetesti
                                                                                                                and Campina ­ Predeal with ISPA
                                                                                                                financing.
                  (b) Signaling and
 INFRASTRUCTURE   Telecommunications

               E.                                      The Strategy        CFR + AFER          Ongoing task     IBRD financed railway telecom
                  3. 2001-2003 Operational Plan,       for the             involvement                          project completed in September
                  including the improvement of         Railway             for safety                           2003.
                  signaling regulations (according     Sector              regulations
                  to UIC standards), improvement       between 2001-                                            PHARE financed project for
                  of safety systems, replacement of    2010 was                                                 replacement of worn out
                  out-dated signaling systems,         approved by                                              interlocking systems in 4 railway
                  finishing uncompleted but            GD                                                       stations is under implementation.
                  essential projects and               1003/2001.
                  development of communication
                  system

                  (c) IT Systems

                  4. Introduce the Integrated          Installation        CFR +               Ongoing task     IRIS contract completed in
                  Railway Information System           and testing,        contributions                        September 2003.
                  (IRIS) consisting of sub-systems:    preparing           of the other
                  § InfrastructureManagement           contracts of        four rail
                  § RollingStockManagement             services with       companies
                  § FreightOperations                  beneficiary
                 § TrafficMonitoring                   railway
                                                       companies.




                                                                                  - 39 -

1                                   2                        3            4            5                        6
                  (d) Overhead Contact Lines                                                  Characteristics to be enhanced (for
                  OCR                                                                         speed up to160 km / h) over the
                                                                                              Trans European Network.
                                                     The Strategy    CFR         Operational
                  5. Prepare 2002-2003               for the Railway             Plan to be   Rehabilitation requirements
                  Operational Plan including:        Sector between              updated      defined.
                                                     2001-2010 was               annually.
                  (i) assessment of rehabilitation   approved by
                  needs and installations of         GD 1003/2001.
                  material and equipment;

                  (ii) develop technical
                  competence and ensure
                  infrastructure management

                  (e) Station, Yards, Lines and
                  Services Closures Plan

 INFRASTRUCTURE   6. Prepare 2002-2003 Plan for      Study and       CFR, CFR-P, Ongoing      Stations closed annually, according
               E. closure of stations, yards, lines  implementation  CFR-F, MTCT              to the operating requirements of
                  and services on economic criteria                                           both CFR-P and CFR-F.

                  (f) Workshops                      Outsourcing of
                                                     non-core
                  7. Separate and develop            businesses of   CFR, MTCT                Independent branches expected to
                  workshops for all infrastructure   CFR-f, CFR-P                Ongoing      be established in territory, intended
                  facilities to facilitate private   and CFR-SA.                              for specific infrastructure activity.
                  sector progressive involvement     See also
                                                     section A.1.
                                                     above.




                                                                        - 40 -

1                                            2                        3               4                  5                            6

                           F. TRACTION AND ROLLING STOCK

                           Main Objective: Provide, maintain and develop / scrap locomotives, wagons, coaches, train sets and maintenance equipment to
                           meet capacity, quality and safety requirements.

                           1. Prepare and adopt Operational                                      Ongoing task.
                           Plans for Traction and Rolling                          CFR-F,        Plan to be
                           Stock fleets, to ensure                               CFR-P           updated
                           commercial competence and                                             annually.
                           competitive development by
                           undertaking the following                                                                 Equipment procured with EBRD
                           measures:                            Procurement                                          and other funds.
                                                                (including test                                      CFR-F obsolete wagons are
                           (i) sizing of the fleet in           equipment for                    Permanently         constantly monitored and taken
                           accordance with traffic demand;      workshop and                                         away from the operational fleet.
                                                                depots).                                             Measures to adapt the fleet to the
                                                                                                                     actual needs of CFR-P included in
                                                                                                                     the 2002-2006 BP.

                           (ii) improving the efficiency of     Study, search                    Permanently
                           locomotive and car fleet             for funds,                                           Relevant EBRD financed contracts
                           utilization by:                      procurement                                          implemented.
                                          -     improvement     plan                                                 See comment under C.1.3 for CFR-
 STOCK                                         of locomotive                                                         F.
                                               and staff
      ING                                      diagrams;
                                          -     systematic
                                               checking and
         ROLL                                  shortening of
                                               the time
             AND                               provided for
                                               the preparation
                                               and end of shift                                  Permanently
                                               duties;
                                                improvement
                TRACTION                  -
                                                                                                                     Contract signed for 120 new
                        F.                     of locomotive
                                               check up         Study, search                                        DMUs for CFR-P and
                                               methods;         for funds,                                           modernization of other 1.832 for
                                               establishing     procurement                                          CFR-F. Financing from different
                                               quality          plan                                                 sources.
                                               standards and
                                               control
                                               programs;
                                          -     improvement
                                               of the fleet
                                               maintenance
                                               efficiency;
                                          -     refurbishment
                                               of rolling stock
                                               and
                                               locomotives;

                           (iii) identification of new rolling
                           stock types to be introduced
                           according to market demands in
                           order to operate more efficiently
                           and with a higher quality (e.g.,
                           EMUs, DMUs, inter-modal).




                                                                                     - 41 -

1                                                            2                         3                4                 5                              6
                                           2. Create value from the            Identify          SAAF, CFR-       Ongoing task        According to the Railway Strategy
                                           exceeding/scrapped rolling stock    business          F, CFR-P                             approved by GOR, SAAF's role
                                                                               opportunities                                          has been limited to the main
                                                                               and implement                                          purpose for which it had been
                                                                                                                                      established, i.e. to create value for
                                                                                                                                      the other railway companies from
                                                                                                                                      exceeding/scrapped rolling stock.
                                                                                                                                      CFR-P sold only in 2002 496
                                                                                                                                      coaches by Romanian Stock
                                                                                                                                      Exchange and transferred other
                                                                                                                                      510 to CFR-SA.
                                           3. Prepare Operational Plan for     Prepare plans     CFR-F, CFR-      Ongoing task.       Plans prepared in May 2000 and
 STOCK                                     traction and rolling stock          and               P                Plans to be         implementation thereafter.
                                           maintenance taking into account:    implementation                     updated
                                                                                                                  annually.           CFR-F reduced / stopped the
                                           (i) rationalization and reduction                                                          activity in 3 hauling related
      ROLLING                              of equipment and number of                                                                 facilities during 2002.
                                           depots and sheds to reduce costs
             AND                           and productivity improvement;

                                           (ii) changes in maintenance
                                           methods and service
                                           specifications including
                TRACTION                   introduction of a preventive
                        F.                 maintenance system with spare
                                           parts;
                                                                                                                                      Outsourcing of several non-core
                                           (iii) improving technical                                                                  activities started in 2001. In
                                           facilities at specified depots;                                                            August 2003 all 5 branches of
                                                                                                                                      CFR-P have been privatized, of
                                           (iv) identification of maintenance                                                         which 4 had as main activity
                                           services that could be outsourced                                                          coaches maintenance. See also
                                           / privatized.                                                                              section A. 1. above.


                                           G. HUMAN RESOURCES

                                           Main Objective: Provide and maintain a quality of highly motivated and well-trained staff with skills; capacity standards and
                                           productivity consistent with the market requirements.

                                           1. 2001-2003 Human Resources        Preparation,      All railway      Ongoing. Plan       In 200 -2003 both CFR-P and
                                           Development Plans (appraisals,      revision and      companies        to be updated       CFR-F organized training courses
                          RESOURCES        promotions, training, career        implementation                     annually.           for the staff involved in using IRIS
                                           development, discipline and                                                                and Oracle Financials systems.
                                           retraining)
                                   HUMAN
                                        G. 2. Training needs by preparing      Preparation,      All railway      Ongoing.
                                           2001-2003 Training Program          revision and      companies        Program to be
                                                                               implementation                     updated
                                                                                                                  annually.




                                                                                                      - 42 -

1                               2                          3                   4                      5                             6

               H. INVESTMENTS

               Main Objective: The achievement of the investments and implement those investments which will ensure the development of
               the rail companies and bring the physical assets back to a safe and appropriate condition, enable the rail companies to meet their
               commercial objectives.

               1. Develop and implement            The Strategy        All railway       Ongoing. Plans to be           Plans updated for all
               Investment Plans with focus on      for the             companies,        updated annually               companies.
               high priorities, based on the       Railway             MTCT,             according to the
               criteria mentioned above, which     Sector              MOPF, GOR         resources.
               will provide safety and better      between 2001-
               performance, support                2010 was
               restructuring, reduce costs and     approved by
               improve competitiveness on the      GD
               market in the future                1003/2001.

               2. Obtain funds from all possible   Continual           All railway       Ongoing projects:              Funds are provided for
               sources (public / private), based   actions             companies,                                       modernization of parts of
               on debt service capability                              MTCT,             1.Railway Rehabilitation       Corridor IV (EIB, EC-
                                                                       MOPF, GOR         Project (IBRD and              ISPA and JBIC). Works
                                                                                         EBRD+ECLAT                     started under EIB
                                                                                         finalized September,           financing on June 2000
                                                                                         respectively June 2003,        and finalized in
                                                                                         still ongoing only EC-         December 2003.
                                                                                         PHARE)
                                                                                                                        Modernization under
                                                                                         2. Rehabilitation of           ISPA financing is still at
 INVESTMENTS                                                                             Bucharest-Campina              the beginning.
            H.                                                                           section of Corridor
                                                                                         IV(EIB)                        JBIC loan for
                                                                                                                        modernization of 57
                                                                                         3. Rehabilitation of           Diesel-electric
                                                                                         Bucharest-Baneasa and          locomotives for CFR-P.
                                                                                         Fetesti-Constanta section
                                                                                         of Corridor IV(JBIC)

                                                                                         4. Modernization of
                                                                                         Baneasa-Fetesti section
                                                                                         of Corridor IV(ISPA)

                                                                                         5. CFR ­main city
                                                                                         railways station
                                                                                         enhancement project
                                                                                         (EBRD)

                                                                                         Future projects:
                                                                                         Infrastructure (EC-ISPA
                                                                                         founds for track
                                                                                         rehabilitation)
                                                                                         Rolling stock (new EIB
                                                                                         loan)




                                                                             - 43 -

1                                                2                        3                  4                       5                              6

                               I. FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING

                               Main Objective: Provide financial management service, prepare, coordinate and monitor annual budgets and investment plans
                               according to the commercial objectives of the railway companies and the performance of PSO. Develop, in parallel, MIS and
                               cost management ability to ensure effective and detailed business evaluation and financial results.

                               1. 2002-2003 Financial              Included in        All railway        Ongoing.
                               Restructuring Plans, as part of     Performance        companies,         Annual
                               the Business Plans of the five rail Contracts with     MTCT,              updating.          Cost reduction actions
                               companies, including:               the state (CFR ,   MOPF, GOR          Achieved by        implemented.
                                                                   CFR-P)                                May 1997 and
                               (i) the financial impact of the                                           implementation

 ACC.                          implementation of all actions on                                          and updating
                               reducing costs;                                                           annually
                                                                                                                            Railway Strategy 2001-2010
     AND                       (ii) a plan of tariff adjustment;                                                            approved by the GOR, including
                                                                                                                            new passenger tariff policy.
                               (iii) analysis of Government
                               contribution for PSO and
        FINANCE
               I.              infrastructure.
                               2. Prepare a plan for the           Design and         All railway        Solution           Implementation of the financial
                               introduction of modern financial    implementation     companies          developed          and accounting IT system
                               and accounting procedures           of a modern                           under EU           "Oracle"(contract financed using
                                                                   financial and                         funded TA The      EU grant) was completed in
                                                                   accounting IT                         application,       September 2003.
                                                                   system.                               especially
                                                                                                         designed for       Training of personnel was
                                                                                                         railway            performed in 2000 and 2001.
                                                                                                         companies,
                                                                                                         was completed
                                                                                                         at the end of
                                                                                                         2003.

                               J. ENVIRONMENT

                               1. Environment management           Periodic           CFR, CFR-F,        Ongoing task.      Study tour done in 1999. Further
                               capacity building                   environmental      CFR-P, SAAF                           specific training sessions provided
                                                                   performance                                              by local and international bodies.
                                                                   review and
                                                                   equipment                                                Equipment procured in 1997 using
                                                                   procurement                                              IBRD funds. Laboratories
                                                                                                                            homologated.

                                                                                                                            Investment in equipment
                 ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                addressed to CFR-F depots and
                            J.                                                                                              other specific facilities with
                                                                                                                            environmental constraints.
                               2. Setting environmental                               CFR, CFR-F,        Ongoing task       According to CFR strategy for
                               priorities                                             CFR-P, SAAF                           1999-2003
                                                                                                                            Study performed by AFER for
                                                                                                                            CFR-F.




                                                                                            - 44 -

1                                         2                       3                4               5                         6

                          K. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT

                          1. Adequate carrying out of all  Project         PMU (for          Project        All contracts completed, except
                          project components and meeting   management      project and       completion     one "Modernization
                          of loans conditionalities        and             contracts         for EBRD       of the interlocking system in four
                                                           implementation, management) +     loan 30 June   main stations".
                                                           contracts       all rail          2003, for
 RRP                                                       administration, companies         IBRD loan 30
                                                           reporting to    (implementation,  September
                                                           IFIs            meeting of        2003,
                                                                           conditionalities) PHARE will
    IMPLEM.                                                                                  be completed

           K.                                                                                by end 2004.
                                                                                             Quarterly
                                                                                             Reports to
                                                                                             IFIs. Final
                                                                                             Report to IFIs
                                                                                             after
                                                                                             completion.


                          L. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 2001-2003 RESTRUCTURING ACTION PLAN

                          1. Meeting of annual RAP         a) Analyze the  All railway       According to
             RAP          objectives / targets             progress in the companies +       IBRD and
                                                           implementation  MTCT and          EBRD Loan
                                                           of the RAP with MOPF              Agreements
                                                           the IFIs                          provisions.
                IMPLEM.
                       L.                                  b) Update the
                                                           RAP                               Up to the end
                                                                                             of June each
                                                                                             year.




                                                                                 - 45 -

Additional Annex 9. [Supplemental Tables]

Table 1. Romanian Railways Operational and Financial Performance (amount in US$ million)
Table 2. Financial Performance (amount in US$ million)
Table 3. Traffic Volume
Table 4. Average Revenue (per passenger-km and per ton-km)
Table 5. State Budget Support
Table 6. Staff Numbers
Table 7. Labor Costs
Table 8. Unit Cost (US$ per traffic unit)
Table 9. Accounts Receivable and Payable [Tables (9a) and (9b)]
Table 10. Private Freight Operations
Table 11. Subsidiarization of Non-core Activities and Privatization of Subsidiaries




                                                  - 46 -

                                                                                                        Table 1
                                                     Romanian Railways
                                               Operational and Financial Performance
                                                   (amount in US$ million)


                                                            1995   1996   1997   1998 1999  2000  2001  2002  2003 2003
                                                                                                              6 mos. est.
Passenger-Km (billion)                                        18.9  18.3    15.8  13.4  12.3  11.6  11.0   8.5   3.9  8.1
Ton-Km (billion)                                              27.2  26.9    24.8  19.7  15.9  18.0  17.8  17.2   7.6 17.3
Total Traffic Unit: (pkm+tkm) (billion)                       46.1  45.2    40.6  33.1  28.2  29.6  28.7  25.7  11.5 25.4


Revenue 1/                                                    601    640     700  803    612   728   748   835  418
Costs 1/                                                      963    939     875 1019    842   938   979 1068   519
 Net deficit                                                 (361) (299) (175)   (216) (230) (210) (231) (233) (101)


State budget subsidy, of which:                               148     99      82  148    253   235   230   248  122  259
  PSO payment (operating subsidy)                                                  52    196   167   146   147   85  186
  Payment for discount tickets (operating subsidy)                                   8    11   27      9    19    9   18
  Infrastructure maintenance (operating subsidy)              148     99      82   78     32   29     26    24    4   23
  Infrastructure investment                                                          9    14   12     37    27    4   10
  Investment for passenger services                                                                   12    31   10   14
  IFI loans debt service                                                             1     1                     10   9.6


Net deficit, incl. effect of operating subsidy               (214) (200)    (93)  (77)    8    14   (51)  (44)   (3)


RAP Target Working Ratio (excl. subsidy for infra.maint)    130% 120% 110% 110% 100% 100%
Working ratio (excl. subsidy for infra.maint)               136% 134% 113% 108%        99%   99% 103%    99%    95%
Working ratio (excluding all subsidies)                     136% 134% 113% 113% 121% 116% 120% 114% 111%
State support as % of GDP                                    0.4%  0.3%    0.2%  0.4%  0.7%  0.6%  0.5%  0.5%
PSO Payment per passenger-km (US$)                                                     0.016 0.014 0.013 0.017


Operating cost per traffic unit (US$) 1/                    0.020 0.020 0.021 0.029 0.029 0.030 0.032 0.036
Operating revenue per traffic unit (US$) 2/                 0.013 0.014 0.017 0.025 0.022 0.024 0.025 0.029
Labor productivity (thou. TU per employee)                    310    325     300  278    272   287   284   277       313 average
                                                                                                                     340 year-end
1/ Track access fees within CFR are excluded.
2/ Track access fees within CFR and subsidies are excluded.




                                                            - 47 -

                                                                                         Table 2
                                            Financial Performance
                                            (amount in US$ million)

                                                Infrastructure
                                                 1999        2000      2001      2002    2003 (6 mos)
Operating revenue                                     263        266       319       371             176
Operating costs, excl. depreciation                   283        284       341       378             174
Depreciation                                            6          6         6         5               3
Other revenue                                           6         13        29        80               1
Financial, tax, and other expenses                    14          15        29        96              10
Net deficit                                          (32)        (26)      (28)      (28)            -10
State budget subsidy
   Infrastructure maintenance                         32          29        26        24               4
Net deficit, including effect of subsidy               0           3        (2)       (5)             (6)

Working ratio (excluding subsidy)                   107%        107%     107%      102%             99%

                                                   Calatori
                                                 1999        2000      2001      2002    2003 (6 mos)
Operating revenue                                     154        188       136       137              70
Operating costs, excl. depreciation                   354        371       315       309             165
Depreciation                                            5          4         4         6               5
Other revenue                                           1          2         2         6               0
Financial costs                                         2          9        14        28               7
Net deficit                                         (206)       (195)    (196)      (199)          (106)
State budget subsidy
   PSO payment                                        196        169       146       147              85
   Payment for discount tickets                       11          27        10        19              10
Net deficit, including effect of subsidy               0           0       (40)      (33)            (11)


Working ratio (excluding subsidy)                   230%        198%     231%      225%            234%
Cost Recovery, without subsidy                       43%        50%       43%       44%             42%

                                                    Marfa
                                                 1999        2000      2001      2002    2003 (6 mos)
Operating revenue                                     388        435       409       430             241
Operating costs, excl. depreciation                   361        418       395       405             218
Depreciation                                            7          7         7        10               4
Other revenue                                           4         10         7         7              11
Financial costs                                       15          12        15        24              18
Net income                                            10           8        (1)       (2)             11

Working ratio                                        93%        96%       97%       94%             91%
Cost Recovery                                       106%        102%     102%      104%            108%




                                                      - 48 -

                                                                                               Table 3
                                                 Traffic Volume
                                                     Part (a)


                                           %                 %                 %                 %

                         1995     1996   change   1997    change    1998    change     1999    change      2000

                                         from 95          from 96           from 97            from 98


Passenger                   18.9    18.3      -3%   15.8      -14%     13.4     -15%     12.3       -8%       11.6

(billion pkm)

avg. distance (km)

Freight                     27.2    26.9      -1%   24.8       -8%     19.7     -20%     15.9      -19%       18.0

(billion tkm)

avg. distance (km)                                                   257.6               253.1               251.6

Traffic Units               46.1    45.2      -2%   40.6      -10%     33.1     -18%     28.2      -15%       29.6

(pkm + tkm) billion


No. of passengers          211.0   213.0       1%  187.0      -12%   146.8      -21%     129.4     -12%      117.5

(million)

Passenger Train Km                                                     75.0              70.0       -7%       69.3

(million)

Freight tons               105.1   105.0       0%   93.9      -11%     76.5     -19%     62.9      -18%       71.5

(million)

Freight Train Km                                                       33.8              28.9                 31.5

(million)

Source: Calatori and Marfa data
                                                 Traffic Volume
                                                     Part (b)


                           %               %                 %       %      revised     %      1st half

                        change    2001   change   2002    change   change    2003     change    2003       2004

                        from 99          from 00          from 01 1995-2002 forecast  from 02   actual    forecast


Passenger                    -5%    11.0      -6%     8.5     -22%     -55%       8.1      -5%        3.9       8.3

(billion pkm)

avg. distance (km)

Freight                      13%    17.8      -1%    17.2      -3%     -37%      17.3       1%        7.6      17.3

(billion tkm)

avg. distance (km)                 247.3            252.5                       252.9

Traffic Units                 5%    28.7      -3%    25.7     -11%     -44%      25.4      -1%      11.5       25.6

(pkm + tkm) billion


No. of passengers            -9%   113.7      -3%    95.6     -16%     -55%      89.9      -6%      47.7

(million)

Passenger Train Km           -1%    67.9      -2%    65.4      -4%               67.0                          68.0

(million)

Freight tons                 14%    71.8       0%    68.1      -5%     -35%      68.4       0%

(million)

Freight Train Km                    31.3             27.1                        28.2       4%      13.1

(million)

Source: Calatori and Marfa data




                                                       - 49 -

                                                                                Table 4
                                             Average Revenue
                                      (per passenger-km and ton-km)


                                 1995   1996  1997    1998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
                                                                                        1st half
Lei/US$1                         2,033  3,083 7,168   8,876 15,333 21,709 29,062 33,055 33,063
Passenger (without PSO)
 Lei/passenger-km                    12    21     57    103    165    235    317    557      599
 US$/passenger-km                 0.006 0.007  0.008  0.012  0.011  0.011  0.011  0.017    0.018
   % increase (in lei)                   77%   176%     80%    60%   43%    35%      6%      8%
   % increase (in $)               19%   17%    19%     45%    -8%    1%     1%     54%     15%


Passenger (with PSO)

 Lei/passenger-km                                       228    504    654    704  1,127    1,318

 US$/passenger-km                                     0.026  0.033  0.030  0.024  0.034    0.040

   % increase (in lei)                                       121%    30%     8%     11%     17%

   % increase (in $)                                           28%    -8%  -20%     41%     31%


Freight
 Lei/ton-km                          32    50    141    240    338    477    610    735      949
 US$/ton-km                      0.016  0.016 0.020   0.027  0.022  0.022  0.021  0.022   0.029
   % increase (in lei)                   56%   185%     70%    40%   41%    28%     21%     26%
   % increase (in $)               -8%    3%    23%     37%  -19%     0%     -4%     6%     27%
Source: Calatori and Marfa data




                                                   - 50 -

                                                                                                                      Table 5
                                                          State Budget Support

                            1995       1996        1997        1998       1999        2000        2001       2002         2003        2003

                                                                                                                        6 months full year est.

   Lei/US$1                 2,033       3,083       7,168       8,876     15,333      21,709       29,062    33,055       33,063       33,600

Passenger PSO

  Billion Lei                                                   465.0      3001.6      3623.2     4,242.2    4,850.5       2807.8      6,241.0

  US$ Million                                                     52.4      195.8       166.9       146.0      146.7         84.9        185.7

Subsidized tickets

  Billion Lei                                                     72.2      162.7       591.6       268.7      633.9        313.5        600.0

  US$ Million                                                      8.1        10.6       27.3          9.2      19.2          9.5         17.9

Investment for passenger services

  Billion Lei                                                                                       338.5    1,035.2        344.4        455.0

  US$ Million                                                                                         11.6      31.3         10.4         13.5

Infrastructure maintenance

  Billion Lei                300.0       306.3        587.3     696.0       497.1       638.0       743.8      775.5        130.4        764.0

  US$ Million                147.6        99.4         81.9       78.4        32.4       29.4         25.6      23.5          3.9         22.7

Investment for infrastructure

  Billion Lei                                                     75.7      209.6       248.8     1,081.8      905.5        127.6        323.0

  US$ Million                                                      8.5        13.7       11.5         37.2      27.4          3.9          9.6

IFI Loans Debt Service 1/

  Billion Lei                                                      4.2        13.6                     -       285.7        323.7        323.7

  US$ Million                                                      0.5         0.9                     -         8.6          9.8          9.6

Sub-total Budget Support

  Billion Lei                300.0       306.3        587.3   1,313.1    3,884.6      5,101.6     6,675.0    8,486.2      4,047.4     8,706.7

  US$ Million                147.6        99.4         81.9     147.9       253.3       235.0       229.7      256.7       122.4         259.1

Budget as % of GDP            0.4%       0.3%          0.2%      0.4%       0.7%         0.6%         0.6%      0.6%         0.2%         0.5%

EIB, ISPA, PHARE, Other

  Billion Lei                                                                           302.5     2,005.1    2,448.9      3,353.9     3,353.9

  US$ Million                                                                            13.9         69.0       74.1       101.4         99.8

Total Budget Support

  Billion Lei                300.0       306.3        587.3    1,313.1    3,884.6      5,404.1     8,680.1  10,935.1      7,401.3     12,060.6

  US$ Million                147.6        99.4         81.9     147.9       253.3       248.9        298.7     330.8        223.9        358.9

Budget as % of GDP            0.4%       0.3%          0.2%      0.4%       0.7%         0.7%         0.8%      0.7%         0.4%         0.7%

GDP

  Billion Lei              72,136     108,920    252,926      371,194   539,357      796,534   1,123,710 1,512,300 1,838,700       1,838,700

  US$ Billion                  35.5       35.3         35.3       41.8        35.2       36.7         38.7       45.8         54.7        54.7

Arrears to the state budget & social funds (on December 31) 2/

  Billion Lei                                                   5,390      3,132       4,589        6,506      9,690       15,417

  US$ Million                                                    607         204         211          224        293          466

GDP: World Bank estimates

1/ Debt service payments of the following IFIs: CFR (EIB, PHARE, JIBIC, London forfaiting); Calatori (PARIBAS, JIBIC)

2/ Arrears to the state/social funds include historial debt accumulated prior to the 1998 reorganization.

SNCFR is in charge of reducing historical debt including arrears to the State budget, using the receivables outstanding as of October 1, 1998.




                                                                    - 51 -

                                                                                                                                    Table 6
                                                                      Staff Numbers


                            1995      1996       1997      1998        1999      2000       2001     2002     total        2003       % change    2003

                                                                                                              staff        as of      from 95 to

                                                                                                             reducd      Sept. 30      9/30/2003 estimate

        End-Year

           total           141,027  137,139     133,201 105,033       102,287 104,425      97,831   87,637                  74,692                 74,692

        of which:                                                                                     1/

Infrastructure                                             47,309      47,308    47,350    45,451   41,642     5,555        36,087                 36,087

Freight                                                    30,628      28,708    29,081    27,104   26,572     5,867        20,705                 20,705

Passenger                                                  24,245      23,230    24,899    22,187   19,060     1,283        17,777                 17,777

SAAF                                                          350          345      388       388      362       240           122                    122

SMF                                                         2,500       2,695     2,706     2,700         -                    -                        -

SNCFR                                                           1            1         1         1       1                       1                      1

Total reductions                       3,888      3,938    28,168       2,746     (2,138)   6,594   10,194    12,945        12,945                 12,945

% reduction                               -3%       -3%      -21%          -3%       2%        -6%    -10%                    -15%       -47%        -15%

Staff productivity            310        325        300       278          272      287        284      277                                           313 average

Source: CFR railways data

1/ With the dissolution of SMF effective as of November 1, 2002, its total employees of 2,611 have been assigned to the Infrastructure, Freight       340 year-end

   and Passsenger Companies.


                                                                                                                         Table 7
                                                                   Labor Cost


                                End-year                                 Annual labor             Total labor cost          Total labor cost
                                 number              Total                    cost               as % of operating               as % of
                                     of            labor cost            per person 1/                cost 2/               total revenue 3/
                                   staff            (US$M)                   (US$)                      (%)                         (%)
              1998                  105,033                379                        3,181                      40%                         47%
           % change                       -3%             -31%                          -21%
              1999                  102,287                262                        2,524                      33%                         43%
           % change                        2%              14%                           14%
              2000                  104,425                298                        2,885                      34%                         41%
           % change                       -6%               2%                            4%
              2001                    97,831               303                        2,995                      34%                         43%

            % growth                     -10%             -42%                          -37%

              2002                    87,637               174                        1,880                      20%                         23%
     1/ For 1998, total labor cost includes labor restructuring cost of laying off 28,000 workers.
     2/ Excludes track access and rental fees involving CFR railways. Also excludes depreciation.
     3/ Excludes track access and rental fees involving CFR railways. Also excludes govt. subsidies.




                                                                        - 52 -

                                                                                                       Table 8
                                                             Unit Cost
                                                  US$ per traffic unit (pkm + tkm)


                                                                  1995   1996   1997   1998 1999  2000  2001  2002



Traffic Unit (TU)                                                 46.1    45.2   40.6  33.1  28.2  29.6  28.7   25.7


Total Revenue/TU (incl. subsidy and access and rental fees)      0.016   0.016  0.019 0.037 0.038 0.039 0.037  0.045
Total Revenue/TU (excl. subsidy)                                 0.013   0.014  0.017 0.033 0.030 0.032 0.031  0.038
Total Revenue/TU (excl. subsidy and access and rental fees)      0.013   0.014  0.017 0.025 0.022 0.024 0.025  0.029


Track access fees                                                                     0.007 0.008 0.008 0.006  0.008
Rental fees                                                                           0.001 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000
Fuel                                                             0.001   0.001  0.001 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.002  0.003
Electricity                                                      0.001   0.001  0.002 0.002 0.002 0.001 0.003  0.004
Overhaul                                                         0.004   0.005  0.005 0.010 0.011 0.011 0.010  0.010
Maintenance                                                      0.001   0.001  0.001 0.003 0.003 0.004 0.004  0.005
Other Material                                                   0.000   0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.001 0.000  0.001
Salaries                                                         0.007   0.007  0.006 0.008 0.006 0.007 0.007  0.009
Social insurance                                                 0.002   0.002  0.002 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.003  0.003
Other labor cost                                                 0.000   0.001  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000
Adm. Expense                                                     0.000   0.000  0.000 0.001 0.000 0.001 0.001  0.001
Depreciation                                                     0.003   0.001  0.002 0.001 0.001 0.001 0.001  0.001


Total Oper. Cost/TU (incl. access and rental fees)               0.020   0.020  0.021 0.038 0.037 0.038 0.038  0.044
Total Oper. Cost/TU (excl. access and rental fees)               0.020   0.020  0.021 0.029 0.029 0.030 0.032  0.036
Cost recovery* (excl. subsidy and access and rental fees)         64%     70%    82%   83%   75%   81%   78%   83%
Working Ratio** (excl. subsidy and access and rental fees)       136%    134%   113%  117%  130%  121%  125%   118%
*  Including depreciation
** Excluding depreciation




                                                           - 53 -

                                                                                                              Table 9(a)
                                              Accounts Receivable and Payable
                                                           (in billions of Lei)
                                               TOTAL         TOTAL         CFR     Freight  Passenger  SAAF    SMF    SNCFR

                                             incl. SNCFR   excl. SNCFR
12/31/1999

Accounts Receivable                                  5,768        3,463      812     1,628        848     149     26     2,305

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               6,631        3,133      669     1,450        851     131     33     3,498
Difference                                           (863)          330      143       178         (2)     18     (7)   (1,193)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          3,132          164       10       122         50     (27)    10     2,969

12/31/2000

Accounts Receivable                                  8,337        6,061     2,017    2,074      1,607     300     62     2,276

Accounts Payable (A/P)                             11,022         7,701     2,501    2,661      2,162     293     84     3,321

Difference                                          (2,685)       (1,640)    (483)     (587)     (555)      7    (22)   (1,045)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          4,589        1,634     1,486       40         90     (31)    50     2,955

12/31/2001

Accounts Receivable                                  9,042        8,094     4,431    2,207      1,029     219    208       948

Accounts Payable (A/P)                             14,775        11,626     6,116    2,577      2,376     347    210     3,149

Difference                                          (5,733)       (3,532)  (1,686)     (370)   (1,347)   (127)    (2)   (2,201)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          6,506        3,557     3,167      371       (105)    (36)   160     2,949

9/30/2002

Accounts Receivable                                14,751        13,518     7,261    3,129      2,022     768    339     1,233
Accounts Payable (A/P)                             20,427        17,399     8,935    4,266      3,441     413    345     3,027

Difference                                          (5,676)       (3,881)  (1,673)  (1,137)    (1,419)    355     (6)   (1,795)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          9,336        6,410     5,008      555        544      29    274     2,926


12/31/2002

Accounts Receivable                                13,306        10,543     5,723    2,271      2,383     166    -       2,763

Accounts Payable (A/P)                             22,233        19,268    10,921    3,843      3,928     575    -       2,966

Difference                                          (8,928)       (8,725)  (5,198)  (1,572)    (1,546)   (409)   -       (203)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          9,690        6,765     5,513    1,216         16      19    -       2,925

6/30/2003

Accounts Receivable                                23,656        21,581    14,988    3,111      2,776     706    -       2,075

Accounts Payable (A/P)                             26,773        23,805    15,592    3,910      3,866     436    -       2,969

Difference                                          (3,118)       (2,224)    (604)     (799)   (1,090)    270    -       (894)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds        14,842        11,925     9,281    1,495      1,123      26    -       2,917

Source: CFR railways data

1/ Net of receivables




                                                                 - 54 -

                                                                                                               Table 9(b)
                                              Accounts Receivable and Payable
                                                           (in millions of $US)
                                               TOTAL          TOTAL         CFR     Freight  Passenger  SAAF    SMF     SNCFR

                                             incl. SNCFR    excl. SNCFR

FX                                                 15,333         15,333    15,333   15,333     15,333  15,333  15,333   15,333

12/31/1999

Accounts Receivable                                  376.2          225.9      53.0    106.2       55.3     9.7     1.7   150.3

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               432.5          204.4      43.6     94.5       55.5     8.5     2.2   228.1

Difference                                           (56.3)         21.5       9.3      11.6      (0.2)    1.2    (0.5)   (77.8)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          204.3          10.7       0.6       7.9       3.2    (1.8)    0.7   193.6

FX                                                 21,709         21,709    21,709   21,709     21,709  21,709  21,709   21,709

12/31/2000

Accounts Receivable                                  384.0         279.2      92.9      95.5      74.0    13.8     2.8   104.9

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               507.7         354.7     115.2    122.6       99.6    13.5     3.9   153.0

Difference                                          (123.7)         (75.5)   (22.3)   (27.0)     (25.6)    0.3    (1.0)   (48.1)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          211.4          75.3      68.4       1.8       4.1    (1.4)    2.3   136.1


FX                                                 29,062         29,062    29,062   29,062     29,062  29,062  29,062   29,062

12/31/2001

Accounts Receivable                                  311.1         278.5     152.5      76.0      35.4     7.5     7.2     32.6

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               508.4         400.0     210.5      88.7      81.8    11.9     7.2   108.3

Difference                                          (197.3)        (121.5)   (58.0)   (12.7)     (46.4)   (4.4)   (0.1)   (75.7)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          223.9         122.4     109.0      12.8      (3.6)   (1.2)    5.5   101.5

FX                                                 32,918         32,918    32,918   32,918     32,918  32,918  32,918   32,918

9/30/2002

Accounts Receivable                                  448.1         410.7     220.6      95.1      61.4    23.3   10.3      37.4

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               620.5         528.6     271.4    129.6      104.5    12.5   10.5      92.0

Difference                                          (172.4)        (117.9)   (50.8)   (34.6)     (43.1)   10.8    (0.2)   (54.5)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          283.6         194.7     152.1      16.9      16.5     0.9     8.3     88.9

FX                                                 33,055         33,055    33,055   33,055     33,055  33,055  33,055   33,055

12/31/2002

Accounts Receivable                                  402.4         318.9     173.1      68.7      72.1     5.0     -       83.6

Accounts Payable (A/P)                               672.6         582.9     330.4    116.3      118.8    17.4     -       89.7

Difference                                          (270.1)        (264.0)  (157.3)   (47.6)     (46.8)  (12.4)    -       (6.1)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          293.1         204.6     166.8      36.8       0.5     0.6     -       88.5


FX                                                 33,063         33,063    33,063   33,063     33,063  33,063  33,063   33,063

6/30/2003

Accounts Receivable                                  715.5         652.7     453.3      94.1      84.0    21.4     -       62.7

Accounts Payable                                     809.8         720.0     471.6    118.3      116.9    13.2     -       89.8

Difference                                           (94.3)         (67.3)   (18.3)   (24.2)     (33.0)    8.2     -      (27.0)

A/P, of which Arrears to State/Social Funds          448.9         360.7     280.7      45.2      34.0     0.8     -       88.2

Source: CFR railways data

1/ Net of receivables




                                                                  - 55 -

                                                                                      Table 10
                                      Private Freight Operators



              Operator          Market     Main Commodity Carried                       Status
                                 entry


SEFER Brazi                      2000 oil, petroleum products
Unifertrans Bucharesti           2000 construction materials
                                                                      TAF has outstanding arrears of $0.5
TAF Bacau                        2000 coal                            million to CFR Infra. Co.
                                                                      CFR Infra. Co. has stopped servicing
                                                                      TAF.
Transcombi Galati                2000 cement
Cerealcom Galati                 2001 grain and grain products
Transferoviaria Sibiu            2002
                                      oil, natural gas, mining and    Operates 11 routes in Costanta and
Rompetrol Bucharesti             2002 construction materials          Prahova
                                      steel, coal, ore, chemical
Servtrans Invest Bucharesti 1/   2002 products, raw materials
Group Feroviar Roman
Bucharesti1/                     2002 oil, petroleum products
Filiala Ferotrans Chitila        2002

Romania Euroest Constanta        2003 shunting/repair of locos, wagons Servicing Port of Constanta

Via Terra Spedition Cluj-Napoca  2003
1/ Major operators




                                                  - 56 -

                                                                                                      Table 11
                                  Subsidiarization of Non-core Activities and
                                           Privatization of Subsidiaries 1/


           1999            2000             2001           2002                         3-Sep-03
           newly           newly            newly         newly                          staff    reduction    staff
Railway formed            formed           formed        formed         already        strength with sev. strength
   co.    subsid. total subsid. total subsid. total subsid. total privatized total end-Aug           pay     end-Sept


Infra.                                         11    11        7   18          9    9     6872        3100       3772
Marfa           4      4                4       3      7            7          3    4     6313        1380       4933
Calatori        5      5                5       3      8       1    9          4    5     5623         720       4903


Total           9      9                9      17    26        8   34         16   18    18808        5200      13608
1/ At end 2004, a total of 9 subsidiaries will remain with the railways as follows:
    Infrastructure: (I) IT center, (ii) Telecomm, (iii) Emergency track repair
    Marfa: (I) Wagon repair workshop, (ii) Locomotive repair workshop
    Calatori: (I) Coach repair workshop, (ii) Locomotive repair workshop, (iii) Ticket sales, (iv) Sleeping cars


                                          31-Dec-03                          2004
                                                      staff                  reduction     staff
                      Railway      to be          strength     to be           with      strength
                         co.    privatized total end-Dec privatized total privatization end-Dec


                    Infra.                 2    7      3,772        4     3      1,873      1,899
                    Marfa                  2    2      4,933        0     2           0        417
                    Calatori               1    4      4,903        0     4           0     1,234


                    Total                  5   13    13,608         4     9       1873       3550




                                                           - 57 -

- 58 -

