                                  Documentof
                               The WorldBank




                                                  ReportNo.: 32688




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   ROMANIA

                    RAILWAY REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                              (CREDIT 3976-RO)


                                  June 21,2005




Sector, Thematicand GlobalEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =Romanian Lei (ROL).

1996                                             ROL 3,065
                          US$l.oo
                          US$1.oo
1997                                             ROL 7,114
1998                      US$l.oo                ROL 8,753
1999                      US$1.oo
                          US$l.oo                ROLl5,147
2000                                             ROL21,328
2001                      US$l.oo                ROL29,053
2002                      US$l.oo                ROL34,055
2003                                             ROL34,122
                          US$l,oo
                          US$l.oo
2004                                             ROL33,790

Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CEE                       Central andEast EuropeanRegion
CFR SA                    Infrastructure Company
CFR Calatori SA           PassengerOperating Company
CFR Marfa SA              FreightOperating Company
CIDA                      CanadianInternational Development Agency
EBRD                      EuropeanBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
ECA                       EasternEurope andCentralAsia
ERR                       Economic RateofReturn
EU-PHARE                  EuropeanUnionAssistanceProgram for EasternEurope
IBRD                      InternationalBankfor Reconstruction andDevelopment
ICR                       ImplementationCompletion Report
IRIS                      IntegratedRailway Information System
OED                       Operations Evaluation Department
PAD                       Project Appraisal Document
PMU                       Project Monitoring Unit
PPAR                      Project PerformanceAssessment Report
PSO                       Public Service Obligation
RAP                       Restructuring Action Plan
S A A F                   Surplus Asses Disposal Company
S A R                     Staff Appraisal Report
SNCFR                     Societateanationala a Cailor FerateRomane(Romanian National
                          Railways)



FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December31

Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation         : Mr. AjayCfibber
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department      :  Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr.PeterFreeman

   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results, andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operations for assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;thosefor which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments; and thosethat are likelyto generate
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupportlargerevaluation
studies.
      A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report(a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)and fieldworkconductedby OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examineprojectfiles andother documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most casesvisit
the borrowing countryfor onsitediscussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARtherebyseeks to
validateand augmentthe informationprovidedinthe ICR,as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review processand OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewedby the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers'commentsare attached to the documentthat is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment reporthas beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-testedevaluationmethods used by OED are suitedto the broad rangeof the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigorand a necessarylevelof flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument, projectdesign,or
sectoralapproach. OED evaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto arriveat their projectratings. Followingis
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more informationis available on the OED website:
http:llworldbank.orgloedleta-mainpage.    html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to whichthe project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
currentdevelopment priorities and with current Bank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty Reduction StrategyPapers, Country AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project'sobjectiveswereachieved,or expectedto beachieved, taking into
accounttheir relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extentto whichthe projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat least costcomparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyapplied to adjustmentoperations.
      Susfainability: The resilienceto riskof net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: HighlyLikely,Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitufionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe abilityof a country or region
to make more efficient,equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements andlor (b)
betteralignmentof the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate,which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intendedand unintendedeffects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extentto whichthe project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supportedimplementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuring adequatetransitionarrangements
for regularoperationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                               1



Contents
PrincipalRatings           ..............................................................................................................                       iv

Key Staff Responsible                ......................................................................................................                     iv

Preface.........  ...............................~..........~.~........~~.~.~..........~.....~.....~.........~..~...............~..~~...,.v

Summary       .....................................................                                                                                              ..
                                                                             ,.................................................................                vu

1. Background           .......................... ............................................                         .........................,................1
2. The Project ...................................................,..............,,.......,..,...............................,....2

3. Results      ........................................................ .......................                        ............................ .............8
4. Ratings      .......................................        ...............................................................................11
5. Conclusions and Lessons                        .................................................................................. ......14
                                                          ,

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet                       ..............................................................................................                 17

Annex B. Romanian Railways Data Tables                                           .................... ...........,........................           ..........19




Thls report was preparedbyPeter Freemanand Thomas Kennedy, who assessedthe project inFebruary
2005. The report was edited by William Hurlbut, and Romayne Pereiraprovidedadministrative support.


                                                 iv


PrincipalRatings


                                                                             I__
Outcome                  Highlysatisfactory         Highly satisfactory         Highlysatisfactory
Sustainability             Highly likely               Highly likely              Highly likely
Institutional                  High                        High                       High
DevelopmentImpact
Bank Performance           Satisfactory             Highly satisfactory         Highly satisfactory
Borrower                 Highlysatisfactory         Highly satisfactory         Highlysatisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivisionof
the Bank. The EvaluationSummary (ES) is an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independentlyverify
the findingsof the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible

Project                      TaskManager/Leader             Division Chief/       CountryDirector
                                                           Sector Director                  -~
 Appraisal                       Anita George             Ricardo Halperin        MichaelWeihen
 Completion                     Antti P. Talvitie           HosseinRazavi          Anand K. Seth


                                              V



Preface

        This i s the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedby OED for
the Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3976) for Romania. The original amount o f
the loanwas US$120 million and was approved on January 18,1996. The borrower was
the RomanianNational Railways (SNCFR), and after reorganization, the CFR SA
(Infrastructure Company); the loanwas guaranteed bythe Government ofRomania. The
effective date o fthe loanwas August 15, 1996, andthe loan was closed on September 30,
2003, with all funds fully disbursed. The original closing date was to be December 31,
2001; the causes o f the delay were the needto re-bid the Integrated Railway Information
System (IRIS) component andbecausechangeshadto bemade to the IRIS software.

        The project was selected for assessment inorder to draw lessons from the
Romanianrailways restructuring experience and the implementationo f the staffreduction
program as well as to verify the ratings.

        OEDpreparedthis report basedon an examination o fthe relevant StaffAppraisal
Report (SAR), Implementation CompletionReport (ICR), legal agreements, project files
andarchives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda andworking papers.
Discussions were also heldwith a number o f existing and former Bank staff, in
Washington as well as inRomania. An OED missionvisited Romania inFebruary 2005,
conducted site visits, and discussed both the project and the effectiveness o fBank
assistance with government officials and stakeholders. Their kindassistance i s greatly
appreciated.

        The Bankhas previously supported three other projects inRomania's transport
sector, the first in 1980 andthe second in 1981were both completed satisfactorily. In
1993, a fiu-therproject, co-financed with the European Bank for Reconstructionand
Development (EBRD) andthe European Investment Bank(EIB), was also completed
successfully, with all project goals andobjectives met.

        The Bank, EBRD, and EU-Phare financed the Railway RehabilitationProject with
parallel financing arrangements andthis PPARreviews the project inits entirety. The
Bank's portionwas US$120million, the EBRDportionUS$72million, andthe EUPhare
contributionUS$69.6 million. The client's Project Management Unitprovided
coordination for all participants inthe project.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o fthe PPARwere sent to relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. N o comments were
received.


                                              vii


Summary

        The collapse o f Romania's centrallyplannedeconomy and its subsequent
restructuringhad significant impacts on the country's transport system. Prior to 1990,
heavy industry, a large user o frail transport, was a sizable portiono f the economy. The
industrial sector has, however, declined sharply since the change to a market economy,
and road transport has become a strong competitor to the railways. To survive, the
railwayneeded to be radically transformed into a more efficient, commerciallymotivated
organization. The Railway Rehabilitation Project supported this process, as assessed in
this Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR).

        The overall project concept (US$442.7 million) comprised contributions from
three major sources. IBRDprovidedUS$120.0 millionfor renewalo f approximately 900
kilometers o frailway, establishment o f an Integrated Railway Information System (IRIS),
modernization o f the telecommunications network, the purchase o f a catenary tensioning
machine, environmentalmitigationmeasures, and technical services. EBRDprovided
US$72.60 million for the rehabilitation o f locomotives, provision o f equipment for
locomotive depots, andthe refurbishment o f coaches andwagons. EU-Phare provided
US$69.6 million for the replacement o f equipment at interlocking stations, track material,
the establishment o f a print shop, andtechnical assistance. Eachcontribution comprised a
separate sub-project financed inparallel, which taken together constituted the total
scheme. The RomanianGovernment was to provide inaddition local funds to the value
o fUS$120.8 million.

        The first objective o fthe Bank-supported project was to support and deepen the
major restructuringprocess that had already been initiatedby the government. A second
objective was to support a set o fpolicy measuresthat were embodiedinthe new Railway
Law, the RestructuringAction Plan(RAP), andthe Performance Contracts betweenthe
operating companies and government.

         The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which
aimed to support the government's structural adjustment program andmacroeconomic
stabilizationobjectives. IfCFR hadnot carried out the reformmeasures supported bythe
project, the railway would have remained an inefficient operator, illequipped to compete
inamarket economy. Therailsystemwould inthat casehave continuedto beaburden
on the country's financial resources.

        The outcome o fthe project i s ratedhighly satisfactorywith both objectives
described above beingfully achieved. Track renewal andmaintenance were completed in
an exemplarymanner; the telecommunications system was strengthened and expanded;
and environmental testing laboratories were established. The IRIS was implemented for
the infrastructure company andpassenger and freight operators; its success was ensured
through substantial technical assistance to the operatingcompanies (CFR).

        The institutional development impact i s rated high. The project has ledto very
substantial institutional change, including the development o f a legal and legislative
framework that will help ensure the future viability o fthe rail sector inRomania. Another

                                              ...
                                            Vlll



positive institutional impact hasbeenthe enacting o f legislationthat gives private rail
operators open accessto CFR tracks. This has resulted inthe emergence o f private freight
operators. The PPARmissionfound these institutionalchanges to have been successful,
from the perspectives of boththe users andthe operators.

         Bankandborrower performances are ratedhighly satisfactory. The close
monitoring o fthe project by the Bank ledto increased technical assistance to support the
implementation o fthe IRIS, a complex process. This technical assistancehelpedresolve
difficulties betweenthe contractor andthe client and ensuredthat the implementation was
a success.

         The ProjectManagement Unitwithin the railways was responsible for overseeing
all components o fthe project implementationincludingthe Bank,EBRD, and EU-Phare
contributions. Close cooperation was maintainedwith Bank staff duringimplementation,
anda goodworlung relationship was established which contributedto success. This
railway project has since been used inthe Bankas an example of goodpractice in
transitional economies.

         The following lessonsmay be drawn from the experience o f this project:

   *   Policy changes are more likely to be implemented successfully when Bank support
       i s providedjust at the time when public entities have committed to theprocess of
       commercialization, and supportive sector-wide reforms are beingput inplace;

       Where railway companies are moving toward commercial operation, their long-
      term financial healthneeds to be assuredbyrationalizingsubsidy support and
      introducing an appropriate costing model;

   * A critical successfactor inacomplex task such as the installationofanintegrated
      management system is that suficient technical supervision and support must be
      available to assist withresolvingproblems as they arise;

    0   Maximizingthe benefits o f a complex information system requires that middle
        and upper level management see and understand the benefits o fusingthe system.
        Extensivetraining i s important;

        Public Service Obligation Subsidy shouldbe for specific services that the
        government considers socially necessary; such services shouldbe transparent,
        explicitly definedand fully compensated as part o f a Contract Plan.




                                                              Ajay Chhibber
                                                              Acting Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                                       1


 1. Background

 1.1      Romania i s located inthe Central andEast EuropeanRegion (CEE) andhas a land
area o f 237,000 squarekilometers and a populationo f 22 million, makingit one o fthe
largest countries inthe region. Across its northernborder are Moldavia and Ukraine,
Hungaryand Serbia areto the west, the southemborder iswith Bulgaria, andthe Black
Sea lies to the east. Forty-six percent o fthe populationi s rural and about two-thirds o f
Romania's poor live inrural areas. The poverty rate i s estimated at 29 percent andper
capita income in2003 was US$2,3 10, compared with US$l,lOO in 1994.

 1.2     Within a five-year period following the fall o fcommunist government in
December 1989, GDP declined by 30 percent, industrial output fell by 52 percent and
exports by 55 percent. This trend continued, culminating ina severe economic crisis in
 1998-99. After the crisis, strong investment and an increase inexports ledto recovery and
more moderate inflation, estimated at a 12percent annual rate. Typical o f most transition
economies from the socialist period, the industrial and agricultural sectors' shares o f
GDP have declined. These sectors aretraditional markets for railtransport.

1.3      This economic transformationhas hada significant impact on the transport
markets inRomania. Railways have lost traffic andmarketshare to roadtransport and
now face increasing strong competitionfrom road as well as from private rail freight
operators; a situationthat i s not likely to reverse itself.

1.4      Historically, Romania's economy reliedprimarily on its rail system. By
comparison, the roadinfrastructurewas poorly developed. Transport policy before 1990
was to promote railtransport andto discourage the extensive use o fprivate vehicle
ownership through regulationand legislation. Inthe 1980s, railway carried approximately
70 percent o fthe country's freight andmore than 40 percent o f its passengers.

1.5      Investment intransport infrastructuremirroredthis transport policy. Duringthe
197Os, most investment targeted railtransport; inthe 1980s the focus shiftedto water
transport, hadmore than 50 percent o ftransport investment, with railreceiving27
percent. Road investment had only 9 percent o ftotal transport investment duringthe
197Os, decreasing to 5 percent inthe 1980s. Duringthe first halfo f the 199Os, there had
beeneffectively no significant investment inany transport mode; only urgent capital
repairs and some periodic maintenance took place with no new investment. When this
project was initiated, duringthe mid-1990s, the railway desperately needed rejuvenation,
both inits infrastructure as well as restructuringo fthe organizationto survive inthe new
economic environment.

1.6     Romaniai s poisedfor possible accession to the European Union(EU) in2007.
The EUhas several requirements for the reform o f the structure o fthe railway
organization and the relationshipwith government o f its member states. Romaniai s


1. Centrally planned economiestypically rely onrail,transport for movingindustrial output, while market
economies are moreprone to favor roadtransport, as commodities moved are typically highvalue
consumer products. Romania has begunto experience t h s shift as their economy is transformed.

                                                2


 cognizant o f these requirements and i s undertaking reforms consistent with these EU
 regulations. Requirements for the railway include the separation o fthe infrastructure
 from the operating companies and "open access" o f the rail infrastructureto private
 operators, with each operator paying an access charge. These and other provisions were
 incorporated inthe Railway Law enactedin 1998 and continue to be inforce.

 1.7     The railway infrastructureo fRomaniahasbeen divided into two parts:
 interoperable andnon-interoperable. The interoperable sections (65 percent o fthe total)
 would beconsistent with EUregulations and standards, while the remaining 35 percent
 would betransferred to private operators or local governments, or abandoned. This
 approach would enable the railways to make further reductions intheir work force and
 streamline the rail operations, focusing on primary routes.



 2. The Project

 Project Objectives

2.1      Thefirst objective o fthe project was to support anddeepen the restructuring
process o fthe railway, which the government andthe railways had already initiated. The
EU's Directive on Railways stipulates that the railways should operate independentlyina
commercial manner inaccordance with marketprinciples. A new Railway Law has been
enacted that provides for the restructuringo fthe railways o fRomania. This law also
provides for the State to compensate the railways for any losses incurred as a result o f
social tariffs appliedto services undertaken as part o f a Public Service Obligation (PSO).
A multi-yearPerformance Contract that is linkedwith PSOpayments has been signed
between the government andthe infrastructure (CFR SA) andpassenger operating
companies (CFR Calatori SA). Thesecond objective was to support policymeasures
embodied inthe new Railway Law, the RestructuringAction Plan, and the Performance
Contracts that the InfrastructureandPassenger Companies hadwith the government.

2.2     The "-funded        components and objectives o fthe project are summarized in
Table 2. The project objectives are quite general; they focus on the restructuringprocess
o fthe railway andpolicy measuresneeded for the railway to survive ina competitive
environment, basedon commercial principles. Inaddition to the restructuring o fthe
railway, andthe reforms initiated within the government, there are several specific
infrastructure improvement projects that need to accompany these changes. The
components o fthe project are some o fthe specific improvements to the infrastructureo f
the railway that would enable the railway's management to meet these project objectives.

2.3     While the amount spent for each specific component was higher than estimated at
the time ofproject appraisal, the balance o f the contingency was used to fund the
overruns. The loanwas fully utilized. Inadditionto the Bank-fimded components,
additional fimding from the EBRDand EU-Phareprovided for improvements to
locomotiverepair depots, rehabilitation o fpassenger coaches andwagons, as well as
technical services.

                                                         3


 Table 2: Railway Rehabilitation inRomania, IBRD Components and Costs

 Components'                                         Costs(US$ millions)
                                                 Appraisal           Actual
 Track renewaland maintenance                       44.0             46.05
 Integratedrailway informationsystem                22.0             33.54
 (IRIS)
 Modernizationof telecommunications                30.50             38.28
 Catenarytensioning machine                         1.60               0
 Environmentequipment                               1.oo              1.23
 Technical services                                 0.60              0.90
 Physicaland pricecontingencies                    20.30               0
 Total cost                                        120.00            120.00


 Project Components

 2.4      One o fthe primary elements o f the project was track rehabilitation. Inthe SAR, it
 was stated that 900 kilometers o ftrack would be rehabilitated, andthis was the basis o f
 the economic calculations. All o fthe requested track maintenance machinery was
 procured andplacedinservice between the years 1998 and 2000. This machinery was
 stationed at each o f the eight regions of CFR, withmost o f the equipment at the four
 regions along the strategic Corridor N linking Western Europe andthe Black Sea' and
 the remainder o fthe equipment inthe other four regions. Infact, considerably more than
 900 kilometerso ftrack were rehabilitated usingthe equipment procuredunder the
project. For example, there were four tampingmachines andthey were used over a total
o f 2,013 kilometers of track; the four ballast cleaningmachines were used over 626
kilometers o ftrack; other machines were similarlyutilized. While it is not possible to
identify specifically every track section that comprised the 900 kilometers rehabilitated
under the project, it i s evident that substantially more thanthe 900 kilometers specified
were rehabilitated, renderingthis part o f the project an unequivocal success.

2.5       Under the project, a total o f 3,500 kilometers o f fiber optic cable were also
installed, resultingina greatly improved telecommunications network for the railway. By
applying the contingencies still available, an additional 520 kilometers were in~talled.~

2.6       The telecommunications improvement component provideda more reliable
communications system for railway operations, as well as the opportunity to sell




2. InRomania, this line passesthrough Timisorara, Brasov, Bucharest and Constanta.
3. With the savingsthrough elimination o fthe catenary tensioning machine from the project, the
installation of a further 429 kmof fiber optic cable was madepossible. The telecommunications system
consists of the older analog system, mainlyused for short distance communications, and the new fiber optic
network, usedprimarily for long distance transmissions.

                                                          4


 communications services on the open market. This system also providedthe needed
 transmission platform to support the implementationo f the IRIS ~ystem.~

 2.7      The IRIS system hadto be re-bidbecause o f anunderestimation o f the costs
 involved. This re-bid resulted inthe contractor responsible for implementation o fthe
 IRIS being allocated a pilot areabetween Bucharest andBrasov instead o f the country-
 wide network, as originally envisioned, while CFR Infrastructure became responsible for
 the country-wide implementation.

 2.8      EBRDfunds were usedfor the rehabilitation oflocomotivesandrollingstock and
 for workshop machinery. As the railway had separatedthe freight andpassenger services
 betweenMarfaand Calatori, respectively, bythe time the loan h d sbecame available,
 the money was also split betweenthese two organizations. Bothcompanies expressed
 complete satisfaction with the specifications o f the works under the project andwith the
 quality o f product supplied.

 2.9      The purchase o f the catenary tensioning machine andwheel fault detector were
 dropped from the project andthe funds made available to expandthe telecommunications
 coverage o f its fiber optic digital network. The reason for these deletions was due to the
 fact that the catenary tensioning machine was primarilyfor adjusting catenary onnew
 line constructionandthere were no new electrification systems plannedfor the Romanian
rail network. The reason for dropping the wheel fault detector was to allow each o f the
operating companies (Marfa and Calatori) to acquire the type o f equipment most suitable
for their needs, as the borrower was the InfrastructureCompany. There was funding
available fi-om the EBRDto finance such equipment for the operators.

2.10      The completiono f the digital telecommunications network has been a great
success for the Telecommunications division as well as for its users. The PPARteam
confirmed that additional funding enabled the digital network to be expanded beyondthat
which was originally envisaged andprovedto be a positive aspect o fthe project
implementation andbenefitedboth freight andpassenger operating companies. This also
enabled the telecommunications department to sell communications services to outside
parties.

2.11 The technical assistance component includedmanagement training and
implementation o f a traffic costingmodel. The management training includeda study
tour for environmental protection, support for the restructuringo fthe SNCFR, seminars
and training programs focusing on changes needed inmanagement culture to accompany



4. There are IRIS applications specifically for CFR Infrastructure; Marfa and Calatori. The Infrastructure
company uses the dataprimarily for train operations control; all train movements are reportedby each
station and &s informationis transmitted to Bucharest where the entire systemoperations canbe seenon a
realtime basis. This information is also available at the regional level. CFR Calatori uses IRIS for tracking
train operations; maintaining a technical specification database for their rolling stock and for tracking
repairs performedonrolling stock. While some repair information is available, repair cost data are not yet
input to the system. Marfauses the IRIS for operational dormation about its trains; status ofwagons
within eachterminal and for recording consignment notes for freight carried.

                                                 5


 the railway restructuring, an overseas study tour o frestructured railways and extensive
 training associated with the IRIS system.

 ImplementationIssues

Project Delays

 2.12    The IRIS contract hadto be re-bid as all bidders responded with prices well in
 excess o fthe amount budgeted for the task. This was due to the complexity o fthe project
 andthe standards established for the work. The government, with the approval o f the
 World Bank,prepared a revised TOR, with relaxedstandards inseveral areas, though
 maintainingcritical features o fthe project components andhardware.

 2.13    The need for modified features inIRIS was also brought about by the changes in
the railway organizationthat had occurred since project appraisal. Inhindsight it was a
bolddecisionto try to introduce-a complex information system during such a periodo f
upheaval. The Romanianrailways (SNCFR) during 1995, was a single organization,
providing all services. On October 1,1998, the organizationwas split into 5 companies,
providing specialized services. These companies were the freight operator (CFR Marfa
SA), passengeroperator (CFR Calatori SA), infrastructure (CFR SA), an organization
responsible for selling redundant assets (SAAF SA), and a management services
organization (SMF SA). The kindo fmanagement information system needed to be
changed from the original specifications to accommodate this new organizational
structure.

2.14     Although CFR Infrastructurehas fully implementedthe system for the purpose o f
evaluating track maintenance and equipment, as well as for monitoringall trains on a
real-time basis, Calatori andMarfaso far have not fully implemented the data input for
specific modules for their use. This issue i s beingaddressedby the forthcoming Bank-
funded Transport RestructuringProject in2005 with additional staff andmanagement
training.

Truflc Costing System

2.15     A traffic costing system developed through a CIDA grant was installed
temporarily on the railways' computers, but was soon abandoned infavor o f a system
more comprehensive and compatiblewith the eventual development o fthe IRIS and
using Oracle as the central database technology. This will linkthe railway's financial
informationto the IRIS applications. Elements o f the costing system that involvedthe
allocationo fjoint costs to various services will be incorporatedinthe structure o f the
Oracle financial system, which i s to be fully functional on all CFR operating companies
by2006.

2.16    The only problem with the decision to abandon the Canadian traffic costing
system was that the more comprehensive costing system is likely to take several years to
develop. The PPARmission considers that it mighthave beenprudent for the
management o f Calatori and Marfato develop an interimcosting system that has the
capability o f estimating costs by service type androute, for the purpose o froute and

                                                    6


service profitability andfor establishing a more service-specific PSOsubsidy support
system, as well as for the assessmento f specific traffic for the development o fpricing
 strategies.

Effectiveness of Parallel FinancingArrangements

2.17     The project incorporates contributions from three major sources -IBRD, EBRD,
andEUPhare; the components fundedbyeachorganizationwere complementary and
contributedto the successful achevement o fthe objectives.

2.18     The EBRDundertookan evaluation o fits contribution to the project inits
ExpandedMonitoringReport o fJanuary 2002. Inthis report, the overall project
performance was ratedSuccessful; the secondhighestrating out o f four possibleratings.
Theproject was ratedon nine criteria, withthe second highest rating for all nine. The
exception was the rating for Overall Client Financial Performance, which was rated as
Marginal due primarilyto continued lossesbythe operating companies.

2.19     These losseswere due to the reductioninstate budget support, increased
operating costs andreceivables. Annex B Table 3 shows the decline inall railway traffic
units since 2000. Annex B Table 4 shows the increase inreceivables, primarily for the
passenger and infrastructurecompanies. Receivables for the freight company increased
significantly in2003. The reason for this patternwas the failure o fmajor clients (mostly
state-owned companies) to pay promptly. The history o f government budget support is
shown inAnnex B Table 5. Subsidies did show a decline during2000 and 2001,
compared with 1999. However, in2002,2003 and 2004, state subsidies showed an
increasing trend. Duringthe recent several years, the total staff of all CFR companies has
beenreduced from 141,027 employees in 1995 to 74,285 in2003. This demonstrated the
good faith o f CFR companies to control operating costs andto increase labor
productivity.

2.20    In2003, theinfrastructure companyhadalossof$99 million, thepassenger
company lost $240 millionwhile the fieight company had essentially break-even
financial results. It i s clear from the traffic volume patternthat boththe freight and
passenger operating companies are indecliningmarkets. The companies needto continue
to re-size their infrastructureandorganizations to meet this increasing competition andto
minimize losses. The are some o fthe important goals of the forthcoming World Bank
Transport RestructuringProjectinRomania.

2.21    The EU-Phare contribution (Phare fimds were on a grant basis) was primarilyfor
installation o fnew generation signaling equipment within the terminal areas o f stations in
Brasov, Arad, andBucharest. Installationsat Brasov andArad were finalized during2004
while the Bucharest installationi s expected to be finishedbymid2005, when the Phare
programwill be completed.

2.22    There was no formal cooperation amongthe various lendingorganizations, but
their efforts were effectively coordinatedthrough the ProjectMonitoringUnit(PMU)
within the CFR InfrastructureCompany.

                                                  7




Decentralization of Managerial Services

2.23    Since inceptiono fthe project, the former SNCFRwas reorganized into separate
organizations responsible for track, freight operations, andpassenger operations. In
addition, there was a management services company created to enable the Ministryo f
Transportationto more closely monitor the activities o f the operating companies. This
organizationwas dissolved in2002, with managerial functions distributedto each
operating organization.

2.24    This decentralization ofmanagement hashadapositive impact onthe operating
companies. It i s consistent with the commercialization of operating companies by giving
themmaximumcontrolover their business. Inaddition, the separation ofMarfafrom the
other operating companies will simplify the procedures for privatization o fthis unit,
which is being considered inthe near future.

Need to Re-evaluatethe Methodfor Allocating Electric Power Costs

2.25    There is still some element of cross-subsidy between freight andpassenger
service, particularly inthe area o f allocation of electric power costs. The method used to
allocate track access fees has beenrevisedinrecent years andthe existing distribution o f
these costs appearsto be reasonable. The Calatori service amounts to approximately 41
percent o fthe total gross ton-kilometers, with Marfathe remaining 59 percent. During
2002,35 percent oftotal track access payments were made by Calatoriwith the
remaining65 percent by Marfa.

2.26    Electric power costs, however, were nearly equally divided betweenCalatori and
Marfa. Calatori gross ton-kilometers account for only 41percent o f the total. Based on
the existing system o f allocating electric power costs, payments by Calatori compared
with usage appear excessive. This couldberemediedby establishing through electric
power consumption tests, indices o frelative consumptionby &eight andpassenger trains
over selectedtrack sections. This method couldbe usedto distribute annual electric
power costs between the two users. Regardless o f the methodused, a more appropriate
distribution o f electric power costs i s needed, one which results inpayments equivalent to
the activity levels o f each.

                                                         8


 3. Results

 Objective 1:Support and deepen the restructuring process which the railways and
government had initiated. Fully achieved.

 3.1               Romaniawas acknowledged ina recent Bank publication evaluating
 railway reform inthe ECA region' as "one o fthe countries inthe ECA regionwhich
 reformed its railways earliest andmost radically. The new companies which were formed
 in1998nowhave clear corporate identitiesandoperate as independent commercial
 entities." Ths underscores the clear success o fthe restructuringprocess inRomania and
 this view is endorsedbythe ProjectPerformance Assessment missiononthe basis o f
 their further evaluation. Some o fthe critical elements o fthe restructuringprocess
 included separation o fnon-core activities from the railway organization, reducingrailway
 staff to enhance operational efficiency, andreducingrailway infrastructureconsistent
withtraffic levels. Thesemeasureswere successhlly executedbyCalatori, Marfa, and
the InfrastructureCompany.

 3.2              All EUdirectives withregardto legal andinstitutionalstructures for
railways have been hllymet inRomania, as a result ofimplementation o fthe project.
Most non-core activities have been separatedfrom the operating companies6with the
result that the numbers o f employees inthe operating companies have beenreduced from
 141,000 in 1995, at the start o f the project, to 105,000 by 1998 and74,285 in2003. Labor
cost as a percentage o f operating cost has fallen from 40 percent in 1998 to 33 percent in
2003. The process o f separating the remainingnon-core activities is continuing and
additional staffreductions are planned. Based on the precedingevidence, the PPAR
mission concludes that the first objective o fthe project wasfully achieved.

Objective 2: Supportpolicy measures embodied in the new Railway Law, the
RestructuringAction Plan and thePerformance Contracts that the Infrastructure and
Passenger Companieshad agreed with thegovernment. Fully uchieved.

3.3                 The newRailway Lawwas adopted in 1998pursuant to Government
Ordinance no. 12/1998; this enabled the establishment o f five separate companies o f the
former RomanianNationalRailways (SNCFR). The five companies included: freight
operating company (CFR Marfa SA), passenger operating company (CFR Calatori SA);
infrastructure company (CFR SA), a company established for the sale o f surplus assets




5. Reform, Commercialization and Private Sector Participation in Railways in Eastern Europe and Central
Asia, January, 2005; PaulAmos.
6. Bythe endof 2004,34 non-core activities have been separatedfrom the operating companies; the non-
core activities that remainw i t h the railways include: CFR Infrastructure: IT center, telecommunications
and emergencytrack repair; CFR Marfa; locomotive repair workshop; and CFR Calatori: coach repair
workshop; locomotive repair workshop; ticket sales and sleeping car services. Total staff ofthese
remainingnon-core activities is 8,745.

                                                      9


(SAAF SA), and a management services company (SMF SA)'. The law also provided for
the establishment o fperformance contracts betweenthe government and the CFR and
CFR Calatori. These contracts specified the government's contribution for infrastructure
andPSOpayments to CFR Calatori. These contracts are inforce andare updated
annually.

3.4              Figure 1shows trends o f PSO subsidies to Calatori, as well as total
government subsidies to all railway companies, from 1998 (the year PSO subsidies
commenced) to 2005 (estimated). PSO subsidies to Calatori amount to about 60 percent
o f total government payments to railway companies; the balance is composed o f
payments for subsidized tickets (student tickets, etc.); investment for passenger services
and infrastructure, maintenance o f infrastructure, anddebt service for infrastructure and
passengerservices. The graph shows anincreasing trend insubsidies until2003, after
which the levelbegins to decline.

Figure 1:Romania State Subsidiesto Railways

               Figure 1: RomaniaState Subsidies to
                            Railways


        400
        350
        300
      u)


     I200
      2 250

     *
     *g 150
        100
         50
         0



    I
    , --ePassenger E O       Total raiiway subsidy




3.6      This trend o fdeclining subsidies is mirroredby a slight improvement inCalatori's
financial performance. Figure 2 shows revenue (excluding subsidies), operating costs and
percentage o f cost coverage from revenue from 2001-2004. Operating costs in2004
appear to have slightly closed the gap betweencosts and revenue, comparedwith 2003.




7. The SMFwas dissolved inNovember 2002 with managerial services incorporated withineach separate
company. The SAAF still exists, though with a diminishedrole, following the disposal o f most o fthe
surplus assets.

                                                         10




                                           Figure 2:Calatori
                                Revenue and Operating Cost

                          400 _____-
                                                  I
                      .-0
                      E 200
                       E       -     -    1
                      49     0 :               ,
                                   2001          2002     2003      2004
                     I --e   Reenue (w/o subsidy) +Operating          cost '


 3.5      Legislation also now permitsopen access to CFR Infrastructure tracks to private
 operators. O fthe total ton-kilometers of freight movedby rail inRomania, the PPAR
 mission estimates that between 12percent and 15 percent is now movedby private
 operators. Approximately 900 kilometers of "non-interoperable" lines have beenleased
to private operators and 400 kilometers have been closedby the endof 2004.7This
process is continuing and is consideredto be a very positive trend.

 3.6     The Restructuring Action Plan(RAP) specifies objectives, targets, andindices
that were conditions ofthe loanagreement betweenthe Bank andthe borrower. The RAP
was preparedbefore the loaneffective date, but amendedin 1999to reflect the
restructuringo fthe railways andthe obligations ofeacho fthe newly-formed
organizations. The RAP covered specific objectives for institutional organization and
management, operations, marketing, infrastructure, traction androllingstock, human
resources, investments, finance andaccounting, environment, implementation, and
monitoring ofthe railway rehabilitation project and implementation ofthe RAP.

3.7      As of January 2004, eachofthese RAP items hadeither beencompletedor was
ongoing. Eachitem included inthe RAP is reviewed annually by the Bank, the
government, and the borrower, as per the loan agreement conditions. Basedon the current
evaluation ofthese RAP items, goodprogresshas beenmade inaccordance with the
agreementsmade at the time ofthe loan. The PPAR missiontherefore concludes that the
secondobjective has beenfully achieved.




7. For these leasedlines, the operator canuse the track with no access charge, thoughthe operator is liable
for all maintenanceon the track andright-of-way. The operator also pays applicable property taxes to CFR;
CFRretains ownership ofthe tracks and land. Insome cases, rolling stock has beentransferred at no cost,
to the operator. While this technique does provide an indirect subsidy to the operator, it is preferable to the
altemative o f closingthe line with subsequentpoliticaldifficulties.

                                                11


4. Ratings

Outcome

4.1     The outcome o fthe project is ratedhighly satisfactory,based on the ratings for
relevance, efficacy, and efficiency (discussed below). The track renewal andmaintenance
were completed; the telecommunications system was strengthened and expanded; and
environmentaltesting laboratories were established. The IRIS was implementedfor the
infrastructurecompany andpassenger and freight operators, its success ensured with
substantial technical assistanceto CFR. Very minor deficiencies inthe project results are
the lack o f an interimcosting system to more precisely quantify the financial shortfall for
operating socially necessary services andthe less thantotal use o fthe IRIS system by
some users. These deficiencies are insufficient to justify reducingthe outcome rating.

Relevance

4.2     The relevance o fproject objectives i s high. The restructuring supported by the
project was essential to help the railway adjust to increasing competition from the road
sector and was fully inline with government's policy andmay be regarded as a
significant andnecessary intervention. The objectives will continue to be relevant for the
foreseeable future.

4.3     The project was also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which supports the government's structural adjustment program and
macroeconomic stabilizationobjectives. Rehabilitationo f infrastructure, a major part of
thisproject, was one o fthe Bank's priority lending areas. Ifthe reformmeasures
supported bythe project hadnot been taken bythe railway and government, the railway
would have continuedto be aburdenonthe country's financial resources.

Efficacy

4.4     The efficacy o fthe project is ratedhigh, as both objectives were fully achieved
andtargets insomecases exceeded. Reorganizationo fthe railway sector was
accomplished, PSO contracts with the government were executed, andthe Restructuring
Action Planwas fully achieved. The EUrequirements for institutional reform were also
accomplished. The latter includedthe separation of the infrastructurefrom the railway
operating companies, as well as establishing a policy to give private operators open
access to the railway infrastructure, In addition, the establishment o fa track access
charging system has beenestablished for all users.

4.5    The rehabilitation o ftrack infrastructureand implementationo f IRIS were
completed successfully.

Efficiency

4.6    The efficiency o f the project is ratedsubstantial. The railway has significantly
reduced its work force, made great advances toward commercialization, andthe legal

                                                  12


 groundwork has beenestablished for a cost reimbursement mechanism for compensating
 the rail operators for maintaining socially necessary services. The efficiency o fthe
 project was also enhanced when the telecommunications department and the
 environmental department began offering their services to parties other than the railway
 operators, their primaryclients. This development i s a sign that the railway organization
 is becoming a commercially-oriented organization, expanding its revenue base.

 4.7      The efficiency was partly diminished inthe short term by the limited usefulness
 o f the IRIS (because data i s not entered by all operating companies), and the lack o f an
 interim costing system. Some regional staffperceive IRIS as a threat to the continuance
 o f their jobs, which accounts for lack o f enthusiasm for the system insome quarters.
 These issues are recognized by CFR management and are also being addressed in
 subsequentBankinterventions. Inparticular, the Bank's Transport RestructuringProject
 for Romania (Project Appraisal Document October 22,2004) includes a component
"finance the completion o fthe NationalDataTransmission Network to facilitate
implementation o f IRIS inall o f the railway service units. This will result in
diversification o f services andincrease inquality of service offered to users, and improve
interoperability with the European network."

4.8       An economic evaluationwas conducted at appraisal separately for eachmajor
project component. The results were an ERR o f 30 percent for track renewal and
maintenance, 52 percent for the IRIS, and 27 percent for the modernization o fthe
telecommunications network. Results for the track renewal andtelecommunications
modernizationcomponents remain valid, as these components were fully implemented
andthe inputsunchanged. Onthe other hand, while the hardware andsoftware ofIRIS
have beenimplemented, the limited use o fthe systembythe operatingcompanies
suggeststhat the 52 percent ERRhas probablynot been achieved and a lower figure
applies. Nevertheless, the returns are clearly positive.

4.9       One further benefit attributedto IRIS inthe project appraisal report was a
reductioninpayments to foreign owners o f freight wagons, by reducingthe time these
foreignwagons spendinRomania. CFR Marfa mustpay a daily hire charge w h l e in
Romania; the lesstime these wagons are inthe country, the more money saved by CFR
Marfa. However, no specific study has beenundertaken to substantiate the impact o f such
savings, which undoubtedly do occur.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.10     The institutional development impact is rated high.The project has ledto crucial
institutionalchanges that have established a legal and legislative framework for the fkture
viability o fthe rail sector inRomania.

4.11 Another positive institutional impact has beenthe enacting of legislationthat
gives privaterail operators open access to CFR tracks. This has resultedinthe emergence
o fprivate freight operators (there are at present 13) primarily conveying oil, petroleum

 products, and steel. The PPARmissionfound these institutional changes to have been
 successful, both from the perspective o f the users andthe private operators.*

 Sustainability

 4.12     There is little doubt that the fkture benefits o f the project will be continuedand
 the project's sustainabilitycan berankedhighly likely. The new Railway Law has
 provided the legislative context needed to implement the necessary reforms; the
 RestructuringAction Planprovides a comprehensive list o f actions already begunby the
 railways and the Government o fRomaniai s committedto ensure success o fthe
 restructuringprogram. The Banki s following up with the Transport Restructuring
 Project, to become effective in2005, with assistance for technical cooperation and
 training for the commercialization o f the railway industry; completion o fthe IRIS
 hardware and communications network; infrastructure maintenance, power supply, and
 signaling equipment; and systems for quality and environmentalmanagement.g

 Bank Performance

 4.13     Bank performance i s rated highly satisfactory. The close monitoring o fthe
 project and the strong andvery professional advisory role playedby the Bank led to
 increased technical assistance to ensure the successful implementationo f IRIS, a
 particularly complex process. Because o fthis strong technical support intervention, any
 difficulties between the contractor andthe client were swiftly resolved andthe
 implementation was highly successful. The Bank team also played an important role in
the discussions o fthe necessary legal and institutionalreforms o fthe railway sector,
 especially at the interfacewith daily operations andmanagement. Training programs
were organized to expand the comprehension o frailway reform issues, using case studies
 o f successful models from internationalexperience.

Borrower Performance

4.14      Borrower performance was highly satisfactory. The ProjectManagement Unit
(PMLT) was responsible for overseeing all aspects o fthe project implementationincluding
the Bank, EBRD, andEUPhare contributions. Close cooperationwas maintainedwith
the Bankstaffduringimplementationand a goodworking relationship was established,
which contributed to the project's success. The government supported some very tough



8. Operators interviewedbythe mission indicated that tariffs are similar to or lower than those o fMarfa;
service is much faster (for example, transit times o f less than 12hours instead o f 2 or 3 days using Marfa);
and profit margins are acceptable (inexcess o f 10 percent). Basedo n estimates o ftotal traffic moved over
the CFlX during2003, the PPARmission estimated that these private freight operators have approximately
7 percent o f the freight market interms o f train-kilometers, and 12to 15percent o fthe freight market, on
the basis o f ton-kilometers. Whde this indicates an opportunity for Marfa to streamline its service to better
serve customers, it does indicate that definite advantages already are being seen (such as lower tariffs in
improved service levels) o f the institution o f "open access" o f rail freight transport inRomania.
9. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan inthe amount o fUS$225 millionto the Republic o f
Romania for a Transport Restructuring Project; October 22,2004.

                                                  14


adjustment andretrenchment decisions that were necessary to reduce the Railway's
physical and humanresources to matchthe marketdemand.



5. Conclusions and Lessons

StrongAdvisory Role of the Bank

5.1      The Bank's strong advisory support role duringthe implementationphase o f IRIS
was key to the successful completion o fthis project component and should be replicated
insimilar projectsinthe future. Thistimely andeffectiveinterventioncoupledto the
Borrower's strong commitment ensured the project was a success. The close attention to
facilitating the resolution ofmisunderstandings and givingexamples o f successful
projects elsewhere also contributed substantially to the outcome.

Increase Usage of IRIS

5.2      Although IRIS has been implemented, it is not yet fully used. To ensure that it
reaches its full potential, additional training for middle andupper management staff o f
Calatori andMarfawill be required. Impressingoperating companies' managers o fthe
benefits o fmore fully usingthe system should ensure maximum use. The management
training and development component o f the forthcoming Transport RestructuringProject
will strengthen railwaymanagement training substantially.

5.3      Itis also necessaryto ensurethat informationalready available from IRIS is
includedinconcise reports givento railway management. Highlightingrelevant data
outputs inthis way and bringingthem to the attention o f the responsible staffon a timely
basis will help ensure better use o fthe data system.

Improve Traffic Costing Capability

5.4      The operating companies needto strengthen their traflc costing capability. This
may take the form o f an interimcosting system prior to the full implementationo f IRIS
andOracle that would have the capabilityto estimate costs ofoperating specific services
on a route-specific basis.

Re-evaluate the Method for Allocating Electric Power Costs

5.5      There i s still some element o f cross-subsidy between freight andpassenger
service, particularly inthe areao f allocation o f electric power costs. This causes a
distortioninthe market mechanism. A more appropriate distribution of eZectricpower
costs is needed- one which results inpayments equivalent to the activity levels o f each
area o f service.

                                                       15


 PSOSubsidies to be Service-Specific

 5.6      Public Service Organizationsubsidy payments made to CFR Calatori are based on
 estimated revenue shortfalls compared with costs to providepassenger services, with the
 constraint o f available funds from the Ministryo f Finance. While this i s consistent with
 the objectives o fthe project, the PPAR mission considers that infuture, the PSO subsidy
 should rather be adjusted to support speclfic services that the government considers
 socially necessary. A service-specific subsidy would ensure that government subsidy
 funds are supportingonly those services that require such support with the remainder o f
 services either commercially viable or abandoned. However, this can only be
 implementedwhen a traffic costingsystem is inplace to evaluate specific services and/or
 routes."

 5.7      The following lessons may be drawn from the experience o f this project:

         0   Policy changes are more likelyto be implemented successfully when Bank
             support i s providedjust at the time when public entities have committed to the
             process of commercialization,and supportive sector-wide reforms are being
             put inplace;

         0   Where railway companies are movingtoward commercial operation, their
             long-term financial healthneeds to be assuredby rationalizing subsidy support
             andintroducingan appropriate costing model;

         0   A critical success factor ina complex task such as the installation o fan
             integrated management system i s that sufJicient technical supervision and
             support must be available to assist with resolvingproblems as they arise;

         0   Maximizingthe benefits o f a complex informationsystem requires that middle
             and upper level management see and understand the benefts o f usingthe
             system. Extensivetraining is important;

         0   Public Service Obligation Subsidy should be for specific services that the
             government considers socially necessary; such services shouldbe transparent,
             explicitly defined and fully compensated as part o f a Contract Plan.




10.For example, recent studies (Railway Modernization Project of Bucharest - ConstantaLine;
Management Assistance and Institutional Development Requirements, Interim Report #2; August 2004)
have demonstratedthat, based on a proposed costing system format, intercity services probably meet their
operating costs from revenues; and these services should be designated as commercial and should not be
part of the subsidy. Other passenger services couldbe defined as social services and would be supported by
the PSO subsidy payments.


                                                                       17                                        Annex A


  Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

  RAILWAY REHABILITATION                         PROJECT



                                                                          estimate                    currentestimate
  Total projectcosts                                                       120.0                           120.0
  Loan amount                                                              120.0                           120.0
  Cofinancing                                                              142.2                            NA
  Cancellation




                                                    llll...lll^--                ~I_III."ll_"_II_I~
                             "11"1  ^~ll_llll__l
  IdentificatinlPreparation                                             09/22/1994                      09/22/1994
                                                                                                          _lll




  BoardApproval                                                         01/18/1996                      0111811996
  Effectiveness                                                         0811511996                      0811511996
  Closing                                                               12131I2001                      09/30/2003




                                                                                   ActuaULatest Estimate
                                                                   No. of Staff Weeks                   US$ ('000)-
~~
  Identification/Preparation                                                NA                          315,197.00
  Supervision                                                               NA                          800,337.00
  ICR                                                                       NA                              NA


  The current accountingsystemno longer givesthe detailedbreakdownsrequestedinthe above table.

                                                18                                      Annex.A


Mission Data
                               Date     No. of   Specializationsrepresented      Performance rating
                           (monthlyear) persons                                     Rating trend
IdentificantionlPreparation 1011011994     6      Finn.Analyst6; Engineer;          S         S
                                                  Economist; Environ.Specialist;
                                                  Systems Analyst; ProjectOfficer
Supervision                 1011811996     3      Railway Engineer: Financial       S         S
                                                  Analyst; ProjectOfficer
                            1011411997     5      Fin.Analyst;Systems Analyst;      S         S
                                                  TransportEconomist;Railway
                                                  Specialist;ProjectOfficer
                            1111111998     3      Railway Specialist;Financial      S         S
                                                  Analyst; ProjectOfficer
                            0410511999     4      ProgramTeam Leader; Railway       S         S
                                                  Specialist;FinancialAnalyst;
                                                  Operations Officer
                            1010111999     1      Sr. TransportEconomist            S         S
                            10101I1999     3      Program Team Leader;              S         S
                                                  FinancialAnalyst; Operations
                                                  Officer
                            06/2112000     1      Team Leader                       S         S
                            12/15/2000     3      Sr. EvaluationOfficer;Sr.         S         S
                                                  FinancialAnalyst; Transport
                                                  Specialist
                            05125l2001    3       Sr. TransportSpecialist;Sr.       S         S
                                                  FinancialAnalyst; Consultant
                            1012612001    3       TransportSpecialist;Financial     S         S
                                                  Analyst; Consultant
                            0211512002    2       TransportSpecialist;Consultant    S         S
                            0315/2002     3       TransportSpecialist;Financial     S         S
                                                  Analyst; Consultant
ICR                         0511612003    3       TransportSpecialist;Sr.           S         S
                                                  FinancialAnalyst; Consultant

                                               19


Annex B. RomanianRailways Data Tables

Table 3: RomanianRailwaysTrafficVolumes

         Units        1995   1996 1997    1998    1999  2000   2001  2002 2003   2004
Passengers(million)   211.0 213.0 187.0   146.8   129.4 117.5  113.7 95.6  94.8   95.5
PassengerKms           18.9  18.3 15.8     13.4    12.3  11.5   11.0  8.5   8.5    8.5
(billion)             105.1 105.0 93.9     78.5    82.9  71.5   71.8 68.1  68.8   64.2
Freighttons (million)  27.2  26.9 24.8     19.7    15.9  18.0   17.8 17.2  16.6   15.5

Source: WorldBank; CFRdata



            Account and Year              CFR            Freight         Passenger
                                      Infrastructure
1999:
Accounts Receivable                               53             105               55
Accounts Payable                                  44              95               55
2000:
Accounts Receivable                               93              96               74
Accounts Payable                                 115             133               100
2001:
Accounts Receivable                              152              76               35
Accounts Payable                                 210              89               82
2002:
Accounts Receivable                              173              69               72
Accounts Payable                                 330             118               119
2003:
Accounts Receivable                              452             104               70

Source: WorldBank; CFRdata

                                                           20


Table 5. State
                             1995     1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001         2002        2003      2004
Lei/US$l                     2,033    3,083      7,168    8,876     15,333     21,709     29,062      33,055      33,210    33,210
Passenger PSO
BillionLei                                                465.0     3001.6     3623.2    4,242.2      4,850.5     7.361.9  7,239.1
US$ Million                                                52.4      195.8     166.9      146.0        146.7       221.7     218.0
Subsidized Tickets
Billion Lei                                                72.2      162.7     591.6      268.7        633.9       629.0     800.0
US$ Million                                                 8.1       10.6      27.3        9.2        19.2        18.9      24.1
Investment for passenger services
BillionLei                                                                                338.5       1,035.2      660.0     490.0
US$ Million                                                                                11.6        31.3        19.9      14.8
infrastructure maintenance
Billion Lei                 300.0     306.3      587.3    696.0      497.1     638.0      743.8        775.5      2.236.4    830.0
US$ Million                 147.6     99.4        81.9     78.4       32.4      29.4       25.6        23.5        67.3      25.0
Investment for passenger infrastructure
Billion Lei                                                75.7      209.6     248.8      1,081.8      905.5       137.0     261.O
US$ Million                                                8.5        13.7      11.5       37.2        27.4         4.1       7.9
Debt Service for infrastructure Company"
BillionLei                                                 4.2        13.6                             285.7       983.6     983.6
US$ Million
Debt Service for Passenger Company      I'
BillionLei                                                                                                         378.3    1,344.0
US$ Million                                                                                                        11.4      40.5
Sub-totalBudget
BillionLei                   300       306        587     1,313      3,885     5,102      6,675        8,486      12,386    11,948
US$ Million                  148
Budgetas %of GDP            0.4%      0.3%       0.2%     0.4%       0.7%      0.6%       0.6%         0.6%        0.7%      0.6%
Localfunds for EIB, ISPA, PHARE projects
BillionLei                                                                      303       2005         2449        2374
US$ Million                                                                      14         69          74          71         0
Exemptionof Arrears to the state `
BillionLei                                                5,390
US$ Million                                                607
Total Budget Support
BillionLei                   300      306        587      6,703     3,885      5,404      8,680       10,935      14,760    11,948
US$ Million                  148       99         82       755        253       249        299         331         444        360
Budget as %of GDP           0.4%      0.3%      0.2%      1.8%       0.7%      0.7%       0.8%         0.7%        0.8%      0.6%
GDP
BillionLei                 72,136    108,920   252,926   371,194    539,357   796,534   1,123,710    1,512,256   1,838,420 2,161,982
US$ Million                 35.5      35.3       35.3     41.8       35.2      36.7       3` 7         45.7        55.4      65.1
Arrears to the state budgetand other socialfunds (on December 31) LI
BillionLei                                                5,390     3,132      4,589      6,506        9,690      15,074
US$ Million                                                607        204       211        224         293         454

GDP: World Bank estimates
I / Subsidyto cover principalrepaymentand interest
2,Arrearsto thestatebudgetand othersocialfundsincludehistoricaldebtaccumulatedpriorto the 1998reorganization,
3/ SNCFR is in chargeof reducinghistoricaldebt includingarrearsto the State budget,usingthe receivablesoutstanding
as of October 1, 1998.


