Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3976 RO
                            Guarantee Agreement
                     (Railway Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                                  ROMANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 19, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3976 RO
                            GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1996, between ROMANIA (the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Societatea Nationala a
Cailor Ferate Romane (SNCFR) (the Borrower), having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
twenty million dollars ($120,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
Page  2
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble and Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 Guarantee
      Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the
due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the
prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the
other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                              Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be
taken all measures as may be required on its part, including
the provisions of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to
carry out the Project and to comply with its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance and compliance.
      Section 3.02. (a) Not later than June 30 of each year, the
Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank and the Borrower
with regard to the implementation of the Performance Contract,
the performance of the Guarantor's obligations thereunder, and
the resource requirements and other actions necessary for the
subsequent year in order to achieve the objectives stated in
the Performance Contract; and
      (b)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not amend or otherwise alter the Performance
Contract or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all measures as may
be required on its part to enable the Borrower to meet the
targets set forth in the RAP.
                                ARTICLE IV
                Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            Ministry of Finance
Page  3
            17, Apolodor Street
            Bucharest
            Romania
                                             Telex:
                                             11239
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                 INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
                 Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        ROMANIA
                        By /s/ Ion Gorita
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
