Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3976 RO
                                 Loan Agreement
                        (Railway Rehabilitation Project)
                                     between
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT
                                       and
                   SOCIETATEA NATIONALA A CAILOR FERATE ROMANE
                             Dated January 19, 1996
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3976 RO
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
SOCIETATEA NATIONALA A CAILOR FERATE ROMANE (SNCFR) (the
Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Romania (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)    by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     (C)    the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD
Loan) in an amount equivalent to ninety-seven million dollars
($97,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EBRD;
and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend a loan (the Loan) to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                    ARTICLE I
                         General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
               agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
               of expenditures in the territories of any country
               which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
               produced in, or services supplied from, such
               territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
               to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
               if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
               Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
               Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
               the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)    In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
               "(k)    An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
        under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
        be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
        Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)    "Performance Contract" means a multi-annual
performance contract entered into between the Guarantor and the
Borrower governing the respective responsibilities of the
Guarantor and the Borrower in operating the railways;
     (b)    "PMT" means the Project management team to be
maintained by the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (c)    "Restructuring Action Plan" or "RAP" means the plan,
agreed with the Bank, which sets objectives and implementation
actions for all aspects of the Borrower's activity and
organization, including operation and financial targets to be
reached;
     (d)    "SNCFR Decision" means Decision on the Establishment
of Societatea Nationala a Cailor Ferate Romane, No. 235/1991,
adopted by the Government of Romania on March 29, 1991, as
amended by Decision on the Modification of Governmental
Decision No. 235/1991 and the Reorganization of Railway
Transport Activity, No. 570/1991, dated August 21, 1991; and
     (e)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                   ARTICLE II
                                    The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
Page  3
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty million
dollars ($120,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
     (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.
     (c)    For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.
           (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                    second six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     (d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)    The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
        amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
        time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
        Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
        preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
        1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
        this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
        the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
        Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
        such Interest Period."
            "(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each
        Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
        Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
        in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)    (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
        commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
        a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                   ARTICLE III
                            Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain a PMT with
membership, staff and other resources and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, including the overall coordination,
administration and supervision of the activities to be carried
out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services
required thereof.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the
Restructuring Action Plan with due diligence and efficiency;
(b) review with the Bank and the Guarantor, by June 30 of each
year, the progress achieved in the carrying out of such plan;
and (c) within four months of each such review, update the plan
and, thereafter, implement all measures required to ensure the
efficient carrying out thereof during the period after such
review, taking into consideration the Bank's view on the
matter.
     Section 3.05. (a) Not later than June 30 of each year, the
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank and the Guarantor
with regard to the implementation of the Performance Contract,
the performance of the Borrower's obligations thereunder, and
Page  5
the resource requirements and other actions necessary for the
subsequent year in order to achieve the objectives stated in
the Performance Contract; and
     (b)    except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend or otherwise alter the Performance
Contract or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the progress in carrying out the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank,
no later than June 30, 1998, a report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and (c) review with the Bank, by October
31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the
said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's comments
thereon.
     Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
     (b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                   ARTICLE IV
                    Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and technical practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and technical practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                    ARTICLE V
                               Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)    The Borrower shall:
Page  6
             (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                    statements (balance sheets, statements of
                    income and expenses and related statements) and
                    the records and accounts for the Special
                    Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                    accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after the
                    end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                    its financial statements for such year as so
                    audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                    as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                    and
           (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and financial
                    statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                    Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
     (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                 (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a)
                        of this Section, records and accounts
                        reflecting such expenditures;
                (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                        Bank has received the audit report for the
                        fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                        from the Loan Account was made, all records
                        (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                        receipts and other documents) evidencing
                        such expenditures;
               (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                        such records; and
                (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                        included in the annual audit referred to in
                        paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                        report of such audit contains a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                        statements of expenditure submitted during
                        such fiscal year, together with the
                        procedures and internal controls involved in
                        their preparation, can be relied upon to
                        support the related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE VI
                              Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)    the SNCFR Decision shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)    (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                    (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                           proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Page  7
                           Borrower for the financing of the Project
                           shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                           terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                           the terms of the agreement providing
                           therefor, or
                    (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                           payable prior to the agreed maturity
                           thereof.
            (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                    apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                    satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                    suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                    such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                    Project are available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                    the obligations of the Borrower under this
                    Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)    any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)    the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                   ARTICLE VII
                           Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)    the Borrower shall have provided to the Bank
satisfactory evidence that measures have been taken allowing
the Borrower to achieve the working ratio for 1996 specified in
the RAP; and
     (b)    all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EBRD Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                  ARTICLE VIII
                    Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  8
            Cable address:                          Telex:
                    INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT)
                    Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA)
                                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                                     82987 (FTCC)
     For the Borrower:
            Societatea Nationala a Cailor
               Ferate Romane
            38, Dinicu Golescu Blvd.
            77113 Bucharest 1
            Romania
                                                    Telex:
                                                    11553 IFCFR R
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    Europe and Central Asia
                    SOCIETATEA NATIONALA A
                      CAILOR FERATE ROMANE
                    By /s/ Ion Gorita
                                                  Authorized Representative
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated                  % of
                               (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Goods (materials,          113,000,000              100% of foreign
     equipment and                                       expenditures,
     software) for                                       100% of local
     Parts A to D                                        expenditures
     of the Project                                      (ex-factory
                                                         cost) and 80%
                                                         of local
                                                         expenditures for
                                                         other items
                                                         procured locally
(2)  Consultants'                   700,000              100%
Page  9
     services for
     Part G of the
     Project
(3)  Unallocated                  6,300,000
                                 __________
          TOTAL                 120,000,000
                                ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $300,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                   SCHEDULE 2
                           Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to support and deepen the
restructuring process of the railway system of the Borrower.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
     Track renewal and maintenance on priority routes, together
with introduction of new technology, improvement of sleepers,
fastening and re-equipment of the rail welding workshops and
replacement of track maintenance machines together with a
catenary tensioning machine.
Part B
     Design and implementation of, and provision of hardware and
software for, an integrated information and network technology
system, including a freight, track maintenance, and financial
information system.
Part C
     Upgrading of signalling and telecommunications systems.
Part D
     Procurement of equipment to improve the environment at
priority sites.
Part E
     Improvement of traction and rolling stock, including
provision of equipment tools to maintenance depots located at
the main nodes of the network.
Page  10
Part F
     Rehabilitation of passenger coaches and freight wagons.
Part G
     Provision of training for upper and middle management of the
Borrower relating to marketing, finance and accounting, railway
restructuring, human resources, and change management skills,
including training equipment and materials.
                                     * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                  SCHEDULE 3
                             Amortization Schedule
                                                   Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
     September 15, 2001                                 2,310,000
     March 15, 2002                                     2,395,000
     September 15, 2002                                 2,475,000
     March 15, 2003                                     2,565,000
     September 15, 2003                                 2,655,000
     March 15, 2004                                     2,750,000
     September 15, 2004                                 2,845,000
     March 15, 2005                                     2,945,000
     September 15, 2005                                 3,050,000
     March 15, 2006                                     3,160,000
     September 15, 2006                                 3,270,000
     March 15, 2007                                     3,385,000
     September 15, 2007                                 3,505,000
     March 15, 2008                                     3,630,000
     September 15, 2008                                 3,760,000
     March 15, 2009                                     3,890,000
     September 15, 2009                                 4,030,000
     March 15, 2010                                     4,170,000
     September 15, 2010                                 4,320,000
     March 15, 2011                                     4,470,000
     September 15, 2011                                 4,630,000
     March 15, 2012                                     4,795,000
     September 15, 2012                                 4,965,000
     March 15, 2013                                     5,140,000
     September 15, 2013                                 5,320,000
     March 15, 2014                                     5,510,000
     September 15, 2014                                 5,705,000
     March 15, 2015                                     5,905,000
     September 15, 2015                                 6,115,000
     March 15, 2016                                     6,335,000
____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                             Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
                                           The interest rate (expressed as a
                                           percentage per annum) applicable
                                           to the Loan on the day of
                                           prepayment multiplied by:
Page  11
Not more than three years                               0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                                 0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                              0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                              0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                               1.00
     maturity
                                   SCHEDULE 4
                     Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)    Prequalification
     Bidders for goods procured for Parts B and C of the Project,
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:      International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
Page  12
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981. For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall
be based on the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
                                   SCHEDULE 5
                                 Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts A to D, and G of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  13
     (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay for
eligible expenditures during the four months following the date
of each such request, which amount shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.
     (b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                    deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                    and other evidence required pursuant to
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                    Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                    from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                    Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                    have requested and as shall have been shown by
                    said documents and other evidence to have been
                    paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
     (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts A to D, and G of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  14
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to be eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
