CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1355 TUN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 12, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Soci4t6 Tunisienne de l'Electricitg et du Gaz (here-
inafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fourteen mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Bor-
rower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions AppliAkble to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any 'ien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor. of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the accou.t or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor: (i) shall not take or concur in
the taking of any action terminating, amending, suspending, waiv-
ing or assigning any of the Guarantor's rights under the Convention
dated December 7, 1970, between the Guarantor and Soci4t4 Italo-
Tunisienne d'Exploitation Petroliere without the prior approval of
the Bank; and (ii) shall exercise all its rights under the said
Convention as required to assure the efficient carrying out and
operation of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall exempt, in accordance with
Law No. 68-3 of March 8, 1968, the Borrower from all taxes, import
duties or other charges, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in the territories of the Guarantor on capital
goods imported for the execution of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to complete in
accordance with terms of reference to be determined in consulta-
tion with the Bank, a study to determine an appropriate pricing
policy for oil and gas in its territory and for the supply of
electric power, taking into consideration the Borrower's policies
on the level and application of connection charges for electricity
supply, to submit to the Bank by September 30, 1978 or such other
date as the Bank may agree the recommendations of such study and
thereafter to exchange views with the Bank on the said recommen-
dations.
(b) In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the
study referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.04, the
Guarantor shall employ by June 30, 1977, or such other date as
the Bank may agree, experts whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement the Guarantor shall take all necessary
steps to ensure that the Borrower's tariffs and charges for the
supply of electricity are adequate for the purposes set forth in
Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-7.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministre D$16gud auprds du Premier Ministre
Charge du Plan of the Guarantor is designated as representative of
the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist4re du Plan
1 Rue de B'ja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
MINISTLRE DU PLAN
1 Rue de B4ja
Tunis, Tunisia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Agrica


