CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1355 - TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L 'ELECTRICITE
ET DU GAZ
Dated January 12, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ (here-
inafter called the Borrower), an Etablissement Public d caractere
Industriel et Commercial, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 62-8, dated April 3, 1962;
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to .this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has represented to the Bank that it intends
* to contract from Banque Nationale de Paris and Societe Tunisienne
de Banque, a loan (hereinafter called the Other Loan) in an aggre-
gate principal amount about forty-six million french francs
(FF46,ooo,ooo) to be guaranteed by Compagnie Fran2aise d'Assurance
pou l'Exportation as to principal, interest and other charges,
to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Other Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Banque
Nationale de Paris and Societe Tunisienne de Banque;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make a loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meaning:
(a) "Prior Loan Agreements" means the loan agreement, Loan No.
724-TUN, (El Borma-Gabes Gas Pipeline Project) dated February 25,
1971, and the loan agreement, Loan No. 815-TUN (Power Project)
dated April 20, 1972, all between the Bank and the Borrower; and
(b) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietory interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
0.......


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 4 -                12-28-76
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 7.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿*                          -5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, public utility, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
.ll such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿()                                   -7-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with sound business, financial and public utility
practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business and for the execution and operation
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, equipment and property and promptly make all necessary re-
pairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate engi-
neering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(d) Except in the normal course of its business, the Borrower
shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets


﻿-8-
which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business
and undertaking unless the Borrower shall first repay or make ade-
quate provision satisfactory to the Bank for repayment of, all of
the Loan which shall then be outstanding and unpaid.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower expressed in
this Agreement shall be applied to any subsidiary of the Borrower
as though such obligations were binding on any such subsidiary,
and the Borrower shall cause any such subsidiary to carry out
such obligations.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to complete a study
or studies in accordance with terms of reference to be determined
in consultation with the Bank on a new structure of the Borrower's
organization, on the training needs of its staff and on the neces-
sary investments for the implementation of a program of transport
and distribution of natural gas throughout Tunisia.
(b) In connection with the study to be carried out by the
Guarantor, as provided in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement,
the Borrower undertakes to carry out a study in accordance with
terms of reference to be determined in consultation with the Bank
on the level and application of connection charges for electricity
supply.
(c) The Borrower undertakes to submit the recommendations
of the studies mentioned under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
4.04 of this Agreement to the Guarantor and the Bank by June 30,
1978 or such other date as the Bank may agree.


﻿(-9-
(d) The Borrower undertakes to assist the Guarantor in the
carrying out as provided in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment of a study or studies on an appropriate pricing policy for
oil, gas and electricity in Tunisia.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall develop a system of key in-
dicators to monitor its performance, shall submit by June 30, 1977
or such other date as the Bank may agree, such system to the Bank
for its comments and shall thereafter implement such system with
such modifications as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall by October 31, 1978 or such
other date as the Bank may agree exchange views with the Bank on
the recommendations of the study or studies referred to in Section
4.04 of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿*                           -11 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take promptly as needed all such action (in-
cluding without limitation adjustments of its tariffs or charges)
as shall be required to provide in any fiscal year an annual re-
turn on the average of the current net value of the fixed assets
of the Borrower in service at the beginning and end of such
fiscal year at a rate of not less than eight per cent (8%),
commencing with the fiscal year starting January 1, 1977.
(b) The Borrower undertakes (i) to prepare and to sub-
mit to the Bank and to the Guarantor, by October 31 in each


﻿- 12 -                       11-18-76
year, a provisional forecast of operating revenues, operating ex-
penses and rate of return for the current year and the next fol-
lowing year, a statement of the tariffs and assumptions underlying
the forecasts, and a statement of the measures proposed, if any,
including changes in tariffs, to produce the annual return provided
for in paragraph (a) of this Section, and (ii) to furnish to the
Bank all such other information relevant to the said forecasts in
such detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual return specified in paragraph (a) of
this Section shall be calculated in respect of
each fiscal year, by using as the denominator
the average current net value of the fixed assets
of the Borrower in service at the beginning and
at the end of each such year less the average ac.
cumulated value of customers' contributions, and
as numerator the net operating income of the Bor-
rower for the same year;
(ii) the term "current net value of the fixed assets
of the Borrower in service" means the gross value
of the Borrower's fixed assets in service less
the amount of accumulated depreciation both as
valued from time to time in accordance with con-
sistently applied appropriate methods of valuation
or revaluation acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 13 -                  11-18-76
(iii) the term "average accumulated value of customers'
contributions" means the average of the accumulated
contributions made by customers, at the beginning
and at the end of the fiscal year under considera-
tion, towards the original investment cost of the
assets referred to in subparagraph (ii) above; and
(iv) the term "net operating income" means gross reve-
nues from all sources less all expenditures, in-
cluding expenses of administration, adequate main-
tenance and taxes or any payment in lieu of taxes
and adequate provision for depreciation but ex-
cluding interest and other charges on debt.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money bor-
rowed for financing the Project, if the principal amount of such
debt would raise the aggregate principal amount of the Borrower's
debt to more than forty-five per cent (45%) of the sum of its
equity plus the aggregate principal amount of its debt (including
the principal amount of the debt to be incurred).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower, in-
cluding debt for the service of which the Borrower
is responsible, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally in-
curred;


﻿(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement
or other instrument providing for such debt; and
(iii) the term "equity" means the total unimpaired capi-
tal and surplus of the Borrower and its subsidiaries
and the accumulated investment contributions made
by customers towards the original investment cost
of the assets referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii)
of Section 5.04 of this Agreement, as such contri-
butions are determined in accordance with appro-
priate accounting practices.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
if the Borrower shall prepay part, or all, of the principal amount
outstanding of any debt of the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay
a proportionate amount of the Loan.
(b) All provisions of the General Conditions relating to re-
payment or redemption in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any prepayment by the Borrower of the Loan under this Section.
(c) For the purpose of this Section, the term "debt" shall
mean all debt of the Borrower, including debt for the service of
which the Borrower is responsible, maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Modification of Prior Loan Agreements
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Decree-law No. 62-8 of April 3, 1962, of the Guarantor
establishing the Borrower, as the same has been or may be amended
from time to time, or any other legislation or regulation of the
Guarantor governing the establishment, organization, powers, fi-
nancial structure and operations of the Borrower shall have been
materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or
shall cease to be enforced, so as to materially and adversely
affect the operations of the Borrower.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Other Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Other Loan Agreement providing therefor; or
(B) the Other Loan or any promissory note or
similar instrument delivered pursuant to
such other Loan Agreement shall have be-
come due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.


﻿- 16 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its ob-
ligations under such agreeme-t or under such pro-
missory notes or similar instruments; and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(c) A default shall have occurred under any of the Prior Loan
Agreements other than in respect of the payment of the principal
or interest or any other payment required thereunder.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17-
Section 6.03. Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement, dated Feb-
ruary 25, 1971, between the Bank and the Borrower, as amended by
paragraph (b) of Section 8.02 of the Loan Agreement, dated April 30,
1972, between the Bank and the Borrower, is hereby amended to read
as Section 5.04 of this Loan Agreement, and Section 5.04 of the
Loan Agreement, dated April 30, 1972, between the Bank and the Bor-
rower is hereby amended to read as Section 5.04 of this Loan Agree-
ment.


﻿- 18-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that, the execution and delivery of the Other Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action, and
such Other Loan Agreement is in full force and effect.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Other Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms,
and such Other Loan Agreement is in full force and effect.
Section 7.03. The date April 12, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿*                                       - 19-
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wI)
For the Borrower:
Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz
38 Rue Kemal Ataturk
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                Telex:
GAZELEC                       12020
Tunis


﻿-20-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
I.NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE
ET DU GAZ
By /s/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Gas turbines, elec-        14,500,000       100% of foreign
trical and mechanical                       expenditures
equipment, machinery,
material and instal-
lation costs
TOTAL       14,500,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any courtry other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Loan will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under the
Loan may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿*                                   - 23-
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item to be financed and of the proceeds of the
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, with-
out in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1977-1981 development
program for generation facilities and consists of the following
parts:
Part A:   Supply and installation at Sfax of two gas turbine units,
each unit consisting of a heavy duty open-cycle gas tur-
bine of about 20 MW each, a generator, an alternator and
control equipment, and of the transformer and switchgear
to connect the alternators to the transmission system.
Part B:   Supply and installation at Menzel Bourguiba, Tunis South,
Korba and Metlaoui of five gas turbine units, each unit
consisting of a heavy duty open-cycle gas oil turbine of
about 20 MW each, a turbine generator, an alternator and
control equipment as a unit, and of the transformer and
switchgear to connect the alternators to the Borrower's
transmission system.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿*                          -25-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1979
through October 15, 1989                       630,000
On April 15, 1990                                   64o,ooo
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
0                                                                   ......


﻿- 26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.85%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.75%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                          6.20%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                          7.45%
More than twelve years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿*                           -27-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A. International CoMpetitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the.Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Tunisia may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 28 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tuni-
sia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tunisia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿*                           -29-
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for turbines, equipment, material
and machinery estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿- 30                                      0
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿-31-
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


